Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/12/- >< 3 Cco
Report No. 5530b-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
October 24, 1985
Pro ects Department
Latin America and the caribbean Regional Office
LThis documnent has a restricted distr;bution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   = Colombian Peso (Co0$)
Col $l                          = 100 centavos (ctv)
Col$152.06                      = US$1.00 (September 1, 1985)
Col$1,000                       = US$6.58 (September 1, 1985)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1980       1981        1982       1983        1984
47.3       54.5        64.1       78.9        100.8
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)                 = 2.205 pounds (lb)
I ton                           = 2,205 pounds 'lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
COLPUEkTOS                      Empresa Puertos de Colombia S.A.
'MOPT                            Hinistry of Public Works and Transport
FVN                             National Highways Fund
FNCV                            National Rural Roads Funds
DNP                             National Planning Department
DAAC                            Civil Aeronautic Administrative Department
FAN                             National Aeronautic Fund
SENA                            National Service of Traineeship
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         I
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE POR  SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . .. .          2
A.  The Transport Sector  . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . . . .      2
(i)  Characteristics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .       2
(ii)  Infrastructure . . a . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .       3
(iii)  Transport Planning, Coordination and Investment  . . .        4
(iv)  Fuel Pricing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
B. The Port Subsector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          5
(i)  The Port Authority and the Public Port Operations  . .        5
(ii)  Labor Relations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
(iii)  Port Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
C. Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector and lending Strategy       8
D. Experience with Past Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
III.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
A. Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
B. Description . .                     . .                             11
C. Equipment Situation and Port Productivity Targets . . . .           13
D. Project Cost, Implementation and Financing  . . . . . . . .         14
E. Financial Aspects . . . .                  . . . . . . .  .    . .  15
(i) Financial Information Systems  . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
(ii)  Past Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
(ii')  Future Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
F. Economic Justification and Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
(i)  Port Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvements  .       22
(ii)  Cargo Handling Equipment . ...  .   . . . ... . . . . .      23
(iii)  Tugboats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       23
(iv)  Overall Project Economic Justification . . . . . . . .       24
G. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . . . . . . .        24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia during October/November 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. G. Unda
(Senior Port Engineer); J. Bigosinski, and J. Hello (Consultants) and Ms. Rios
(Financial Analyst). Ms. K. Sierra (Economist) assisted the mission in the
economic evaluation. The report has been edited by Ms. V. Foster.
This document has a retricted distnbution and may be used by recipients ondy in the performnc of
their offida dues Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Dak authorniati



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
A.  Cost Estimates, Finance and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
B. Execution and Procurement .  . . .... ..  .........   .. ...   25
C. Special Account . . . . . . . . . .. . . ...  . . ...  . . . . 28
D. Project Monitoring, Semi-Annual Consultations and Kid-Term Review 28
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
TABLES
2.1   Summary of Port Traffic in 1983 and 1984  .     .  .  . . . . . . . . . .   32
2.2   Actual and Forecast Public Terminal Traffic, 1978-2000  . . . . . .   33
3.1   Existing and Proposed Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
3.2   Proposed List of Equipment and Procurement Schedule . . . . . . . .   35
3.3   Existing COLPUERTOS' Tugboat Fleet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
3.4   Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . .   37
4.1   Detailed Cost Table - Buenaventura  . . . . . . . . .    ....   .    38
4.2   Detailed Cost Table - Cartagena. .                     ....... .   39
4.3   Detailed Cost Table - Barranquilla  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
4.4   Detailed Cost Table - Santa Marta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *   41
4.5   Detailed Cost Table - Institutional Development . . . . . . . . . .   42
4.6   Detailed Cost Table - Project Supervision of Construction and Studies 43
4.7   Project Cost Sulmmary  . . . . . . . . .  . .. .. a . .  . . .  . .  . .   44
4.8   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   45
ANNEXES
1.    Port Traffic Analysic            . .        .................... .    46
2.    Financial Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
3.    Labor and Equipment Situation and Productivity Targets  . . . . . .   79
4.    Detailed Project Description    .        .         .. *6***          93
5.    Details of the Training Component . . . . . . . . . . . .       .. a   96
6.    Economic Evaluation                   . .                   . . .  101
7.    Project Monitoring and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  116
8.    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File  . . . . .  121
CHARTS
World Bank 27106 - Project Implementation Schedule
World Bank 27107 - COLPUERTOS Organization Chart
World Bank 27108 - Port Terminals Organization Chart
MAPS
IBRD 18406 - Colombia Transport System
IBED 18729 - Ports Rehabilitation Project - Cartagena
IBRD 18730 - Ports Rehabilitation Project - Santa Marta
IBRD 18731 - Ports Rehabilitation Project - Buenaventura



COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I.' PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Empresa de Puertos de Colombia, S.A. (COLPUERTOS)
Guarantor:    Republic of Colombia
Amount:       US$42.8 million
Terms:        Repayment in 17 years, including four years o' gratLe, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project       This would be the first Bank involvement in the port sub-
Description: sector. The project's objectives are to (i) strengthen
COLPUERTOS' managerial, financial, administrative and
operational capabilities to improve port services and reduce
operational costs and (ii) upgrade port capacity by restoring
port installations and increasing port productivity to enable
the public port system to cope with future traffic demand and
ensure adequate support to Colombia's foreign trade. The
proposed project consists of (a) civil works to rehabilitate
existing port installations and to upgrade port utilities; (b)
provision of heavy cargo handling equipment, workshop machinery
and tools, second hand tugboats, training equipment and
material, and computer hardware; and (c) management,
operational, engineering and training consulting services.
Risks:        The main risks associated with the project are the uncertainty
regarding traffic levels and COLPUERTOS' failure to achieve
productivity targets. The civil works components are not par-
ticularly sensitive to these risks, and, in the case of the
equipment components, the risks have been minimized by
concentrating on replacement of obsolete items.
The project is associated with institutional changes aimed at
restructuring the terms of compensation to port labor and
establishing a new pension system for port workers, to free
COLPUERTOS from the heavy financial burden imposed by the
current practices. The changes envisaged will permit COLPUER-
TOS to reduce substantially labor costs and long-term pension
obligations, while improving manpower efficiency, thereby
enabling the enterprise to transfer these benefits to port
users through better service and lower port charges. The
Government and COLPUERTOS have already shown their commitment
to these objectives by pursuing actively, through negotiations
with the port labor unions, the necessary changes to legally
binding labor agreements, and by initiating the legal process
to establish a pension system self-sufficient in the
medium term and financially separated from COLPUERTOS.



-2-
Estimated Project Costs
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
Civil Works                                     12.10      11.10      23.20
Equipment                                        -         17.20      17.20
Institutional Development                        0.60       3.00       3.60
Project Supervision and Studies                  0.90       3.60       4.50
TOTAL BASE COST                                 13.60      34.90      48.60
Physical Contingencies                           1.40       2.80       4.20
Price Contingencies                              2.20       5.00       7.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              17.20      42.80      60.00
Financing Sources:
Proposed IBRD Loan                                -        42.80      42.80
COLPUERTOS' Own Resources                       17.20       -         17.20
TOTAL FINANCING                                 17.20      42.80      60.00
Disbursements:        Bank FY        86      87     88     89      90     91
(Project Only)
Annual        5.0   11.0   13.0    7.0    4.0       2.8
Cumulative           16.0   29.0   36.0   40.0    42.8
Rate of Return: 38%
1/ Rounding up to the nearest integer.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE PORT SUBSECTOR
A. The Transport Sector
(i) Characteristics
2.01      Colombia's advantage of having coast lines on both the Pacific
Ocean and the Caribbean Sea is largely offset by the difficulty of movement
between the coasts and the interior. The three massive ranges of the Andean
Mountains running the length of two-thirds of the country present formidable
obstacles to communication among its main population centers, which, until
recently, developed as separate and somewhat isolated regions. The Magdalena
River, until the mid-century, provided the only overland route between the
Central region and the Caribbean coast and, even so, with serious naviga-
tional problems during the dry season. In the 1950s, however, under a drive
toward integration and modernization, the transport system began to evolve
into a national network. The development of the country's railways, trunk
highways and civil aviation has greatly improved inter-regional communication
and national integration.



2.02      The effort to establish the basic transport infrastructure absorbed
a considerable proportion of the country's public investment. Transport rep-
resented about half of the Central Government's investment in the late
1950s. More recently, with the basic infrastructure in place, transport's
share has declined, and, since the late 1970s, it has been around 13%. In
1984, the transport sector accounted for some 8% of the GDP, compared to
about 5% in 1950. In the same year, the country's domestic surface transport
system moved 25.4 billion ton-km of freight, of which 88% by road, 5Z by
inland navigation, 4% by coastal shipping and 3% by railways. Roads and
aviation dominate passenger traffic, accounting respectively for 71% and 27X
of total demand, estimated at 17,250 million passenger/km in 1984.
(ii) Infrastructure
2.03      Colombia has a road network of about 100,000 km (10,500 km paved),
of which about 25,000 km comprise the national highway system, about 48,000
km are departmental roads, about 24,000 km are rural roads and about 2,000 km
are private roads. The planning, construction and maintenance of the road
network are performed under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (Y-JPT)
through its National Highway Fund (FVN) and National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV),
in charge, respectively, of the national highways and the rural roads. The
Departments perform their own road maintenance through their Secretariats of
Public Works.
2.04      The railways system consists of 3,403 km (2,822 km currently .o
service) of single track narrow gauge (0.914 meters) lines administered by
the Colombian National Railways, a semi-autonomous state-owned agency. The
trunk line between the Caribbean port of Santa Marta and Medellin-Bogota in
the central highlands is 1,287 km long and carries over 70% of the total
railway traffic. The Pacific line (187 km) serves only the Department of
Valle, connecting the port of Buenaventura to the city of Cali.
2.05      The Magdalena and Cauca rivers, together with the man-made Canal
del Dique (connecting the Caribbean port of Cartagena with the Magdalena
river), constitute a major transport system totaling 1,366 km of navigable
waterways, which account for almost all inland shipping. The traditional
importance of inland waterway shipping, however, has decreased with the
development of road and rail transport; the remaining river traffic is mainly
hydrocarbons and other bulk commodities, such as cement and fertilizers,
which originates at, or is destined for, the ports of Cartagena and
Barranquilla. River transport moved about 2 million tons of freight in 1984,
roughly the same volume as 30 years ago. Administration and maintenance of
inland waterways are under the jurisdiction of MOPT. Freight services are
privately operated.
2.06      Aviation transport in Colombia developed early in the 1920s,
induced by the adverse topography and the inherent difficulties of surface
transport. Air traffic is now a major passenger transport mode for both
international and dcomestic traveling. There are presently in the Colombian
territory 70 airports whose standards vary widely. Seven of the airports in
mainland Colombia and one on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped
for international flights. Aviation is governed by the Administrative
Department of Civil Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly responsible to the
President of the Republic. DAAC is financed by the National Aeronautics Fund
(FAN), whose revenues originate mainly from user charges.



- 4 -
2.07      Maritime transport supports most of the volume of Colombia's
foreign trade, which is moved mainly through its public and private sea-
ports. Empresa Puertos de Colombia (COLPUERTOS), the national port authority
responsible to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, controls all the
public ports, namely Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific coast, Cartagena,
Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the Caribbean Coast and Leticia on the
Amazonas River. Besides the two private ports of Turbo and Puerto Bolivar on
the Caribbean coast, there are privately operated berths at the public termi-
nals of Cartagena and Barranquilla. There are no private port facilities on
the Pacific Coast. The private ports and privately operated berths special-
ize in certain own-user bulk traffic, mostly coal, petrochemicals, hydro-
carbons, fertilizers and cement. Total traffic at the public ports amounted
to 9.7 million tons in 1984, of which 5.8 million moved through private
berths and 3.9 million, basically general cargo, moved through the public
terminals (Table 2.1). Most of Colombia's seaborne trade is, and will likely
remain, with the U.S., the industrialized European countries and Japan.
(iii) Transport Planning, Coordination and Investment
2.08      MOPT is directly responsible for sector planning matters, including
the preparation of the National Transport Plan. The Plan, which is
periodically updated by MOPT's Sector Planning Office, defines the relative
role of the distinct transport modes based upon demand projections by
commodity type. It also outlines investment programs and the corresponding
financing sources for each subsector. The objectives of the Plan are
formulated in accordance with the broader goals established in the National
Development Plan, prepared by the Olational Planning Department (DNP). DNP
also coordinates, with MOPT and otner sector agencies, the programing and
budgeting processes for investments in all transport modes, except pipelines.
2.09      The sector priorities in place, largely shaped to accommodate the
transport investment needs with the constraints arising from the reduced
inflow of external resources and the tight fiscal situation, emphasize
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure and equipment,
motor fuel substitution, transport safety and intermodal coordination to
reduce transport costs and improve efficiency. They also call for investment
policies consistent with supporting productive and external trade-oriented
activities, coordinated with cost-based pricing policies to mobilize
resources through recovery of investments.
2.10      The financing of the transport sector is arranged through a
combination of (a) operating revenues (38%); (b) earmarked taxes on oil
products (35%); (c) budgetary contributions (13%); (d) domestic and external
credit (7%); and te) other sources (7%). Overall, sector funding policy
emphasizes financial self-sufficiency for each subsector. In practice,
however, its implementation has been weakened. The case of the
railways--which have had to resort to budgetary contributions to finance
operating deficits caused by declining demand and operational
inefficiency-and the existing cross-subsidies (between import and export
tariffs in the ports, between freight and passenger tariffs on the railways,
and between user charges for light and heavy vehicles on the highways) are
becoming of major significance.



-5-
(iv) Fuel Pricing
2.11      Colombia has maintained, in recent years, a policy of annual
increases in fuel prices to adjust for domestic inflation and to reflect the
corresponding opportunity costs. As of November 1984, the time of the last
price increase, regular I/ and premium 2/ gasolines were priced,
respectively, at US$0.82 and US$0.93 (equivalent) per gallon, in line with
the relevant international levels. However, the accelerated pace of
devaluation since then brought current domestic fuel retail prices down to an
average 25% below the equivalent international levels. Retail prices are
expected to be adjusted toward the end of this year, and more frequent
increases are expected during 1986 to compensate for the exchange rate
adjustment policy currently in place. Fuel price developments in Colombia
are being monitored through specific provisions in a Bank loan to ECOPKTROL,
the National Petroleum Company.
B. The Port Subsector
(i) The Port Authority and the Public Port Operations
2.12      The National Port Authority, COLPUERTOS, was created in 1959 as the
public entity in charge of the management and operation of public ports in
the country, and supervision and regulation of private berths located in the
vicinity of the country's Atlantic ports. COLPUERTOS does not have
jurisdiction over the private ports of Turbo (operated by the Federatioa of
BARnAna Growers) and Puerto Bolivar (operated by the Colombian Coal
Enterprise) since their regulations and supervision rest directly with the
Government. In 1975, COLPUERTOS became a state-owned commercial and
industrial enterprise under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, with
financial and administrative autonomy. The entity is governed by a Board of
Directors in charge of the overall policy matters at national level and a
General Manager with executive management functions. Each of the ports has
its own Board and Manager with corresponding functions at the local level.
The central office is charged with policy, budgetary, development and
investment functions, while each of the ports is responsible for its own
operations and administration. COLPUERTOS' organization is shown on Charts
27107 and 27108.
2.13      COLPUERTOS' relations with its labor force are regulated by collec-
tive labor agreements negotiated periodically between the enterprise and the
port labor unions. These collective contracts are legally binding, and their
terms and provisions prevail over the national labor legislation, which
establishes the minimum standards that labor contracts must comply with
(minimum salaries and benefits) and gives freedom to the parties to negotiate
terms above the minimum legal requirements. Once formalized, the collective
I/ 80 RON (Research Octane Number)
2V 92 RON



- 6 -
labor contracts can bB amended only by agreement between the parties and, as
last resort, by the ruling of a tripartite arbitration tribunal in which the
parties and the Government are represented.
2.14      The four major public ports in Colombia are Buenaventura on the
Pacific and Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the Caribbean coast.
All four ports are fundamentally general cargo terminals, even though
Buenaventura and Santa Marta have specialized facilities for bulk cargo
handling and storage. The ports terminals provide services of pilotage,
towage, bunkering, stevedoring, on-slhore cargo handling, lighterage and
storage.
2.15      Buenaventura is the main port on the Pacific and also Colombia's
largest public deepwater and container port.  It lies in a tropical zone with
a heavy rainfall, which interfereR with port operations. Its terminal
facilities cover an area of 1,175,000 m2. Its 13 berths, totaling 2,150
meters, are naturally protected and offer draft up to 32 feet. In addition
to 10 warehouses, the terminal has specialized facilities for grain (32,000-
ton capacity silos), sugar and bulk liquids. The port traffic does not
interfere with the city, and the access to the port area is adequate, even
though possibilities for further physical expansion are limited. The
terminal is connected with the hinterland by rail and road and, together with
coastal shipping, serves all the western part of the country. Buenaventura
competes with the terminals on the Caribbean coast for the seaborne freight
originating in, or destined for, the Bogota metropolitan area. All sugar,
molasses, an important share of coffee exports, and most imports from the Far
East move through Buenaventure. In 1984, this port handled nearly 2.1
million tons of freight, equivalent to 55Z of the total moved through public
ports.
2.16      Cartagena, situated in the best natural port locatiun on the
Caribbean coast, is Colombia's second container port and premie- cruise ship
port-of-call. Its hinterland includes the important agricultural and
industrial region of Medellin, in the Department of Antioquia. The port
links with its hinterland by road, air and inland waterways through the Canal
del Dique to the Magdalena River. Port facilities cover an area of 289,000m2
with five deepwater berths and two berthing areas for smaller
roll-on/roll-off ships totaling 1,218 meters; the port offers draft up to 35
feet alongside its berths. There is some room for physical expansion at the
port site, although access to the port is through the city streets. Addi-
tional port areas can also be developed elsewhere in the bay. Cartagena
moved 0.8 million tons in 1984, equivalent to 21X of the total freight
through public ports.
2.17      Barranquilla is located at the estuary of the Magdalena River and
is essentially a regional deepwater and river port.  It serves primarily the
city of Barranquilla and its area of influence, with some transshipment of
cargo for upriver transport. The port is connected with the interior by
road, river and air transport. The public port facilities cover an area of
1,030,000 m2. Barranquilla has six berths with 1,058 meters and one berth
for river vessels. Although its berths offer draft up to 34 feet,
Barranquilla has the most serious sedimentation and dredging problems of all
public ports. Physical expansion of port facilities is possible, although
not envisaged. Access roads to the terminal area are adequate. Barranquilla



-7-
moved 0.48 million tons in 1984, equivalent to 12% of total freight through
public ports.
2.18      Santa Marta lies in a natural deepwater bay on the Caribbean
coast.  The port occupies an area of 133,0nO m2.  It has five berths with
1,300 meters offering draft up to 50 feet. Even though the terminal has four
warehouses and mechanized grain handling facilities (32,000-ton capacity
silos), they have limited use for unloading vessels because of tne low
unloading capacity of the conveyor. Potential for further physical expansion
is limited. Road access to the port area is through the main city atreets,
which at times causes congestion. This port links with the Interior by road,
air and rail connections. The rail access to the terminal is adequate, but
the lack of a marshaling yard disturbs the traffic in the port area. Santa
Marta moved 0.49 million tons in 1984, equivalent to 12% of the total for
public ports.
2.19      Seaborne traffic through Colombia's major public ports grew fast in
the late 1970s, peaking at 4.9 million tons in 1980. Declining exports-
caused mainly by reduced world demand for some Colombian agricultural
exports, the diversion of coal exports to a private port and decreasing
imports as a result of balance of payments restrictions-brought the public
ports traffic down to 3.9 million tons in 1984. Because of improved
prospects for economic growth, this trend is expected to be reversed, and
traffic at these ports is forecast to increase at an average rate of 1.8%
p.a. over the 1985-1990 period (Table 2.2). The highest traffic growth is
expected at Santa Marta (7.6% p.A.) while, at Buenaventura, it is expected to
remain at current levels, with declines in bulk traffic offset by increases
in general cargo (Annex 1).
2.20      COLPUERTOS is a financially independent enterprise and receives no
budgetary support from the Government. Most of its revenues come from
tariffs for services provided by the public port terminals End a small
portion from charges (ad valorem charge on traded goods) from the private
wharves. The Central Office is financed by the charges on the private
wharves plus 20% of the revenues generated by the public terminals to finance
its administrative expenses, capital investments at headquarters and the
ports and debt service.  Each terminal retains 80% of ils revenues to cover
the cost of its own operations (Annex 2).
(ii) Labor Relations
2.21      Over the years, until 1983, COLPUERTOS' institutional and financial
situation deteriorated sharply as the result of a combination of several fac-
tors. First, COLPUERTOS' management had been generally weakened by excessive
political interference, which resulted in high turnover in upper management
positions, which, in turn, contributed to lack of continuity and absence of
clear institutional objectives. Second, influential port labor unions (one
in each port and three in Barranquilla) took increasing control of labor and
equipment assignment functions at the port terminals over the years and
successfully generated significant overstaffing and unrealistic compensation
terms. Third, COLPUERTOS' pension obligation to retirees, paid entirely by
the enterprise out of its own operational resources with no funding
provision, has become an unbearable financial burden upon the enterprise.
Finally, the short-term-focused management concerns, coupled with continuous
financial deterioration and recurrent labor problems, resulted in poor
long-term planning, which weakened COLPUERTOS' operational capabilities.



-8-
2.22      By end-1982, however, in an effort to reverse these trends, a
strong management took over and initiated, backed by the Government, a series
of corrective measures to recover control of operations at the terminals and
to bring down excessive costs (Annex 3). Substantive progress was made in
the negotiation of new and tuoce sustainable labor agreements, and important
concessions with regard to linking payment to manpower productivity were
obtained from the labor unions. Staff was reduced by 23% to 9,411 employees
(through induced attrition coupled with a freeze in hiring). The cost re-
duction measures so far undertaken by COLPUERTOS' management have had an
Important impact upon the financial position of the enterprise, changing the
nearly endemic operating losses of 1979-1982 into an operational surplus for
the first time in 1983.
2.23      COLPUERTOS and the Government are committed to continue their
efforts to rationalize payments to workers, relating payments to productivity
during future labor agreements. This commitment is stated in the terms of
the letter of representation submitted by Colpuertos on July 31, 1985 stating
its labor policies approved by the National Council of Economic and Social
Policy. Targets for further adjustments of personnel by attrition would be
ratified by a side letter to be signed simultaneously with the loan
agreement, agreed with COLPUERTOS at negotiations.
(iii) Port Planning
2.24      Since most management members of COLPUERTOS' current administration
were appointed during the last 12-18 months, there is need to strengthen
several areas, particularly project planning and execution, and to make fin-
ancial and operational information available for management and corporate
planning. In order to fulfill these needs, the proposed project would in-
clude a major technical assistance component consisting of: (a) improved
financial information systems to allow an effective control of operating
costs and the institution of cost-based tariffs; (b) improved cargo handling
procedures and repair and maintenance practices to increase efficiency in
port operations; (c) improved management information systems to improve plan-
ning and operational activities; and (d) training at managerial,
administrative and operational levels.
2.25      The consolidation of COLPUERTOS' basic top- and medium-level mana-
gers to ensure their stability and the continuity of the enterprise's pro-
grams is included in the po.iicy statement referred to in paragraph 2.23
preceding. The proposed project, in addition to providing technical
assistance in training to strengthen COLPUERTOS' managerial capabilities
(para 3.08(f)), would include rehabilitation of the port system (paras 3.05
and 3.06). COLPUERTOS would be required to review with the Bank any
investment item not included in the project, resulting in a capital
expenditure in excess of US$2 million. Notwithstanding, COLPUERTOS would not
commit itself to any such expenditure unless it were economically,
technically and financiallv justified.
C. Bank Involvement in the Sector and Lending Strategy
2.26      The Bank has played an important role in the development of
Colombia's transport sector.  Its involvement dates back to 1949, whea a
transport sector mission reported the transport system to be in an



-9-
exceptionally bad condition. Since 1950, the Bank has lent about US$551
million in 23 loans to the sector. These investments supported the
construction of an integrated highway network and, more recently, have
contributed to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the national network and
to the development of an improved highway organization. They have also
contributed to the construction of over 670 km of the main railroad line, as
well as to the rehabilitation of other lines. A domestic aviation project
helped to improve basic aviation infrastructure and subsector efficiency and
planning. The proposed project would be the first Bank operation in the
ports subsector.
2.27      The Bank's lending strategy for the transport sector emphasizes the
timely provision of development finance in support of policy reform and
institution-building objectives, including: (a) policies targeted at
achieving a more balanced use of existing transport alternatives, through
adequate price signals to consumers and improvements in marketing and
distribution arrangements for key commodities; (b) equitable treatment for
the distinct modes of transport, and for each user of public infrastructure,
by pursuing the development and adoption of cost-based pricing policies for
each mode, to cover marginal costs of use; (c) reduction of total transport
costs, by improving modal interfaces and the efficiency of operations within
each mode; (d) public sector funding and expenditure mechanisms to reflect
the costs of use of existing infrastructure and facilities; (e) investment
planning to give adequate priority to export development, agriculture
diversification, and energy conservation and substitution, with emphasis on
maintenance and rehabilitation programs; (f) further integration of the
public planning, budgeting and programing processes and strengthening of the
financial and personal management practices of sector agencies; and
Cg) institutional and human resources development, through comprehensive
training programs at the upper and middle management, and operating levels.
2.28      At the project level, this lending strategy is presently supported
by:
(a) the Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO, 1981, US$33.0 million)
for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural
roads; institutional objectives sought with the project
include the strengthening of FNCV's technical and economic
capability for identifying, programing and implementing rural
roads subprojects;
(b) the Seventh Railway Project (Loan 2090-CO, 1982, US$77.0
million) for rehabilitation and modernization of the railways;
the project supports the implementation of Colombian National
Railways' (CNR) 1983-1987 investment program and the
improvement of financial and operational management; and
(c) the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-CO, 1982, US$152.3
million) for rehabilitation, paving and maintenance of the
primary road network; the project pursues the improvement of
transport sector management and other subsector objectives,
including the development of a balanced pluriannual highway
expendi'ture program, more systematic use of economic appraisal
methodologies, the implementation of a pavement management
system and training actions at the managerial and operating
levels.



- 10 -
D. Experience with Past Lending
2.29      The performance of these projects so far has been mixed.  While the
results with the Rural Roads and Highways Projects have been positive and the
respective loans have contributed significantly to sector management
improvements, building up of investment appraisal capabilities and
institutional strengthening, as well as physical improvements, the activities
involving the Railways subsector have fallen short of expectation. The
capacity of the Railways Authority (CNR) to overcome operational deficiencies
and, thus, to recuperate credibility with users of cargo services has not yet
materialized, partly because of internal management and operational problems,
such as slow procurement and poor operational planning, as well as
insufficient Government counterpart funding for needed capital investments.
The fiscal constraints have prevented the Government from making a
significant financial contribution to project investments and have limited
its financial support to covering CNR's mounting pension payments, which are
not backed by any funding provision. A restructuring or deferral of the
Railways project is presently being discussed with the Government. CNR's
pension problems have served as a basis for the approach followed in
consideration of the proposed Ports Rehabilitation Project.
2.30      The proposed Ports Rehabilitation Project described in the
following section would be the first Bank operation in the port subsector,
and it would strengthen COLPUERTOS' management and operational capabilities
while achieving reductions in port operating costs and ship waiting times
through better utilization of existing quay structures and equipment. It
would also introduce the mechanisms for establishing a cost-based tariff
structure and improved planning of port activities to accommodate future
traffic increases.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      Three of the four main commercial ports administered and operated
by COLPUERTOS-namely Buenaventura, Cartagena and Santa Marta-have reached a
serious degree of deterioration due to poor maintenance, old age, and, in
some cases, poor construction. Deterioration at the port of Barranquilla is
not critical and should be taken care of through COLPUERTOS' regular
maintenance.  Port equipment maintenar^-e has been neglected because of
inappropriate maintenance facilities, shortage of spare parts and lack of a
consistent equipment maintenance policy. This situation, coupled with
inadequate port operation planning, has affected port productivity and
efficiency.
3.02      The main objectives of the Bank support for the proposed Ports
Rehabilitation Project are to: (a) ensure sufficient port capacity to cope
with traffic demand up to 1990, facilitating Colombia's foreign trade; and
(b) strengthen COLPUERTOS' (i) managerial, administrative and operational
capabilities to enable the enterprise to increase port productivity and
reduce port costs; (ii) financial capabilities to enable the enterprise to
achieve its loAig-term financial viability through the establishment of a
cost-related tariff structure; (iii) train'ng capabilities by supporting the



- 11 -
enterprise's training schemes through appropriate technical assistance and
equipment; and (iv) in the medium-term, its planning capabilities through
training of medium- and high-level managers and fellowships for young
professionals on port planning and administration.
3.03      The proposed project would finance part of the 1985-1988 COLPUERTOS
investment plan, which was prepared with Bank assistance. The project is
based upon detailed analyses of COLPUERTOS' organizational setup,
administrative and operational practices, technical capabilities and
financial situation, followed by a detailed analysis of present conditions of
the project ports' existing infrastructure and equipment.
B. Description
3.04      The proposed project would comprise the following components at the
four project ports:
(a) civil works for the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure,
including quays, storage areas and utilities;
Cb) equipment for general cargo and containers, workshops,
training and computer equipment and tugboats; and
Cc) professional services for technical assistance, engineering,
construction supervision, studies and training.
A detailed de-cription of the project is given in Annex 4. The location of
the project porLs and the scope of the civil works rehabilitation components
at each project port are shown on Maps IBRD 18406, 18729, 18730 and 18731.
3.05      Civil works under the proposed project would consist of repairs and
reconstruction of about 1,250, 340 and 970 m of quays at the ports of
Buenaventura, Cartagena and Santa Marta respectively; paving and repaving of
about 63,000 and 39,000 m2, including utilities, at Buenaventura and
Cartagena respectively; construction of about 15,000 m2 of roofing at
Buenaventura; 7,600 m of sheds to replace old ones to be demolished at
Cartagena; and acquisition and installation of emergency power plants at all
project ports. Engineering of all the described items has been completed;
cost estimates of all civil works are based on final structural designs.
3.06      The proposed project would include the following equipment:
(a) forklift trucks and mobile cranes to cover COLPUERTOS' present shortage
of equipment to handle heavy loads; (b) trailers for general cargo;
(c) container-handling equipment supplementary to the existing equipment
owned by COLPUERTOS and private rental companies to handle 40- and 20-foot
fully loaded containers; (d) 15,000-lb. forklift trucks or similar to equip
the ports with capability to handle empty 40- and 20-foot containers
efficiently; (e) yard tractors and trailers for container traffic;
(f) workshop machinery and tools, (g) four second-hand tugboats to partially
replace the existing fleet; (h) training equipment as required for the
implementation of the training program (Annex 5); and (i) computer equipment
for the implementation of the management information system (Annex 2).



- 12 -
3.07      The procurement of heavy cargo handling equipment includes the
replacement of obsolete existing units and the coverage of the existing
shortage for current traffic levels and additional equipment to cope with
traffic growth. The equipment included in the project is given in
Table 3.2. Lists of the existing cargo-handling equipment by port and
ownership, together with proposed equipment that would be included in the
project, are given in Table 3.1. A list of COLPUERTOS' existing tugboat
fleet is given in Table 3.3.
3.08      The professional services to be financed under the proposed loan
would couprise:
(a) supervision of construction;
(b) engineering studies and design for a future port project to
equip selected ports with full container and bulk-handling
capabilities;
(c) feasibility studies for the long-term expansion of Colombia's port
capacity on the Pacific coast;
Sd) studies to reorganize dredging services required for the operations
of COLPUERTOS and to define institutional arrangements to permit
the cost recovery of dredging activities (para 3.25);
(e) management advisory services to: (i) strengthen and improve
managerial, financial, administrative (Annex 2, Appendixes C
and D), operational and maintenance capabilities of the enterprise
and the project ports (Annex 3, Appendixes A and B); (ii) prepare,
coordinate and supervise the implementation of COLPUERTOS' training
program (Annex 5'; and (iii) conduct supplementary actuarial
financial studies; and
(f) trainiug for management, operational and administrative
personnel of the port terminals and COLPUERTOS' central office
(Annex 5).
Agreement vas reached during loan negotiations on the timing and scope of
these professional services.
3.09     With regard to the project's training component, COLPUERTOS has
selected training advisers satisfactory to the Bank, established and staffed
a Training Supervision Unit (TSU) and a Training Steering Committee (TSC),
and prepared a preliminary training program to be implemented by SENA as part
of the ongoing agreement between the two entities. In addition to the above,
COLPUECIOS agreed during negotiations to:



- 13 -
(a) prepare, with the assistance of the training advisers and
submit to the Bank, an integrated four-year training program
as a condition for loan effectiveness and implement it with
SENA and the advisory services support; and
(b) no later than June 1, 1986 select courses abroad and
candidates for fellowships and courses/seminars.
C. Equipment Situation and Port Productivity Targets
3.10      Privately owned light cargo handling equipment to cover COLPUERTOS'
shortage is used efficiently by private operators. However, this arrangement
generated a number of anomalies that needed to be corrected to ensure port
efficiency. Until very recently, port users paid for less-than-complete
services and, in addition, paid the rent of private equipment required to
handle porz traffic; this situation encouraged port inefficiency since
COLPUERTOS collected revenues for services not fully provided and its
equipment operators were paid even when they did not participate in the
operations. During negotiations, COLPUERTOS and the Government gave
assurances to the Bank that the operational procedures had been changed as
follows:
(a) COLPUERTOS is paying and would continue to pay for the rent of
private light cargo handling equipment to private equipment
rental companies and would reimburse the users for the cost of
equipment that they may rent by themselves under special
circumstances; and
(b) COLPUERTOS has eliminated payments to equipment operators who
do not participate in the provision of port services.
3.11      Analyses carried out during appraisal show that COLPUERTOS' light
cargo handling equipment operating costs are higher than those charged by
rental companies. Consequently, COLPUERTOS should abstain from acquiring
more light equipment when the existing equipment reaches the end of its
economic life and should allow its replacement by private equipment rental
companies, unless the enterprise is able to reduce its operating costs to
levels comparable with those available in the private sector.  This matter
was formally agreed with COLPUERTOS and the Government during negotiations.
Further details are given in Annex 3.
3.12      Productivity at the project ports was compared with that of other
ports of similar size and volume of traffic handled and with the average
performance indicators of a sample of 220 ports of the world (Table 1 of
Annex 3). This analysis shows that, while gang productivity is generally in
line with that of other ports, the idle time of ships alongside berths of the
project ports is considerably longer than in other ports. While idle time
is, on the average, only about 30% of the total time that ships occupy berths
for the sample of 220 ports, in the case of the Colombian ports, idle time is
about 60-70% of the total ship stay in port.
3.13      A detailed analysis of the causes for this unsatisfactory situation
in each of the project ports is included in Annex 3. Low productivity is the
result, among other things, of lack of port operations planning, inadequate



- 14 -
working time control, poor equipment availability, inadequate internal
traffic organization and s'gnalization within the port area and inappropriate
preparation of cargo/storage areas.
3.14      The proposed project includes a comprehensive strategy for the
improvement of port productivity based upon the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, the procurement of heavy cargo handling and container handling
equipment, a technical assistance component to improve port operations
(Annex 3) and a training program (Annex 5). Based upon a detailed analysis
of current port operations, a realistic set of targets for specific
productivity i i at s was prepared for each of the project ports. These
targets are discussed in Table 2 of Annex 3. At negotiations, COLPUERTOS
agreed to take the necessary actions to implement the technical assistance
recommendations for the improvement of port efficiency and the achievement of
these productivity targets. A sample of the expected increases in
productivity is given below:
Increases in Productivity I/ with Respect to
1984 Levels in Z
1987              1989               1991
Buenaventura     General Cargo      7                  14                22
Containers       16                  33                33
Cartagena        General Cargo      7                  13               20
Containers       16                  33                33
Barranquilla     General Cargo      5                  11                17
Containers       25                  50                50
Santa Marta      General Cargo      6                  13               19
Containers       25                  50                50
1/ Measured as Ton/Gang/Hour for general cargo and TEU/Gang/Hour for
containers.
D. Project Cost, Implementation and Financing
3.15      The total cost of the project, including provisions for
contingencics and reflecting September 1985 prices, is estimated at US$60.0
million, of which US$42.8 million is foreign exchange to be covered by the
Bank loan. The remaining US$17.2 million would be covered through
COLPUJERTOS' internally generated funds. Further details of the financing
plan of the project are in paragraph 4.07 and Annex 2. Cost estimates exclude
a recent value added tax on local acquisitions, considering that practically
all equipment included in the project would be imported, and duties on
imported items from which COLPUERTOS is exempt; detailed estimates are given
in Tables 4.1 to 4.7 and are summarized on page 26. Cost estimates for civil
works are based on final engineering. Cost estimates include provisions for



- 15 -
physical contingencies of 10% for civil works, 6% for equipment, and 10Z for
all other project items. Price contingencies were calculated based on
projected changes in local and international prices and expected exchange
rate adjustment during the project period. Local inflation rates assumed
over the project period are: 22% for 1985, 20% for 1986, and 18%
thereafter. Price escalation for foreign costs components has been estimated
at 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and 8% thereafter. Estimated manpower required
for the professional services included in the proposed project would amount
to about 190 anLd 270 man-months of foreign and local experts respectively.
3.16      Most of the civil works and equipment to be financed under the
proposed project would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines; civil works items with an estimated
cost of US$0.6 million equivalent or less, and equipment items with an
estimated cost of US$0.1 million equivalent or less would be procured under
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures open to foreign bidders and
acceptable to the Bank (para 4.05). Workshop machinery and tools, the
second-hand tugboats, training-related equipment and computer hardware would
be procured under international comparative shopping procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. AU professional services to be financed under the proposed
project would be retained in accordance with procedures described in Bank
Guidelines on the use of consultants. In evaluating bids for equipment
procured through ICB, Colombian bidders would be allowed a margin of
preference equivalent to 15% of the CIF cost of competitive imports, or the
relevant prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.
3.17      COLPUERTOS would be the Borrower and would be responsible for the
execution of the project. COLPUERTOS has already established and staffed a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to coordinate, monitor and supervise the
execution of the project, in a form satisfactory to the Bank. The PIU is now
fully operational in accordance with terms of reference also satisfactory to
the Bank and available in the Project File. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with COLPUERTOS and the Government on the establishment of a
technical committee--with representatives of MOPT, the National Planning
Department and COLPUERTOS-to coordinate and supervise the execution of
studies for which COLPUERTOS will be responsible.
E.   Financial Aspects
3.18      COLPUERTOS is constituted as a commercial enterprise, under the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport, with financial and administrative
autonomy. Under its present organization, which is based upon Decree 1174 of
May 1980, COLPUERTOS has one central office in Bogota and offices in each
port terminal, all of which have their respective functions and income
defined by law. However, since the proposed project would ensure COLPUERTOS'
overall financial viability, the financial evaluation (Annex 2) deals with
the entity as a whole.
3.19      The financial evaluation covers two main aspects, namely: (a) an
assessment of COLPUERTOS' financial information systems including budgeting,
accounting, cost accounting, tariff structures, and internal and external



- 16 -
audit, with recommendations for improvement under the proposed project; and
(b) an analysis of COLPUERTOS' past and future financial performance, with
recommendations for strengthening its future financial position. The details
of the financial evaluation are included in Annex 2, and the most relevant
conclusions are discussed in the following paragraphs.
(i) Financial Information Systems
3.20      COLPUERTOS' financial planning is generally weak.  Apart from tne
annual cash budgets which are used in monitoring current day-to-day
operations, COLP'JERTOS has no long-term financial objectives or plans.
Consequently, capital investments and other business decisions are not
subject to comprehensive economic and financial analyses to evaluate their
impact upon COLPUERTOS' finances. In addition, despite important
improvements made over the last two years toward computerization and
decentralization, COLPUERTOS' accounting system is still inappropriate for
measuring the financial efficiency of each port, and fixed assets are
undervalued substantially. COLPUERTOS has no cost accounting to idertify
costs by function and by port, arcd the present tariffs, which are applied
uniformly to all ports, are not cost-based. COLPUERTOS' external audit is
performed by the Controller General of the Republic of Colombia. The
external auditors' reports on COLPUERTOS' financial statements, however, lack
the analytical scope of a commercial audit. Finally, even though the
internal audit system is generally satisfactory, the results are, many times,
hampered by the complexity of the existing systems and procedures.
3.21      In order to strengthen COLPUERTOS' financial capabilities, the
following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a) the proposed project to contain technical assistance consisting of
consultant services for improvements to financial information
systems, including budgeting, accounting and cost accounting, with
on-the-job training during the implementation phase (draft Outline
Terms of Reference in Annex 2);
(b) by March 31, 19872 and at least every year thereafter, COLPUERTOS
to carry out an inventory and revaluation of its fixed assets;
(c) by June 30, 1988, and based upon the results of the cost accounting
studies referred to in (a) preceding, COLPUERTOS to restructure
tariffs to reflect the cost of services rendered; and
(d) COLPUERTOS to have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent external auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in addition to the audit carried out by the
Controller General of the Republic.
(ii) Past Financial Performance
3.22      COLPUERTOS' actual income statements for the period 1980 to 1984
are summarized on the following page and detailed in Table 1 of Annex 2:



- 17 -
Actual Income Statements
(in Current Col$ millions)
1980      1981        1982       1983      1984
Total Operating Revenues    9,597      11,145      12,936     14,961    16,569
Working E ?enses             9,726     12,529      15,123     12,524    13,697
Working Income (Loss)         (129)    (1,384)    (2,187)       2,437     2,872
Depreciation                   171         168        171         197       231
Net Operating Income (Loss)  (300)    (1,552)    (2,358)       2,240      2,641
Financial Expenses (Net)       212         128        259        399        250
Other Expenses (Provision
for future Pensions)         -          -           -        1,555      2,391
Net Income (Loss)             (512)    (1,680)    (2,617)        286          0
Traffic ('000)               4,927      4,093       4,628      4,125      3,872
Average Number of
Staff Employed            11,923     12,053      12,210     11,266      9,865
Pensioners                 N.A.       N.A.        6,206      6,505      7,005
Ratios
Working Ratio                101         112        117         84         83
Operating Ratio              103        114         118         85         84
From 1978 until 1982, COLPUERTOS made losses consistently, and, by year-end
December 1982, total accumulated losses amounted to Col$ 6.95 billion (or
US$98.9 million). Apart from inadequate tariff increases, coupled, during
1980-1982, with a reduction in traffic, staff costs increased considerably as
a result of negotiations with politically powerful labor unions. In late
1982, a new administration carried out a plan of corrective measures to bring
down excessive costs. The plan resulted, in 1983, in a reduction in personnel
costs of about 31%, in real terms. COLPUERTOS' total staff was also reduced
by 16% in the same period. As a consequence, after a period of nearly
endemic operating losses, COLPUERTOS generated a significant operational
profit for che first time in 1983, which amounted to ColS 2.24 billion (or
US$25.2 million). COLPUERTOS' 1984 operating results improved slightly
compared to those of 1983, despite a 6% drop in traffic, because of
additional staff reductions.
3.23      It should be noted that COLPUERTOS' staff reductions do not result
in proportional reductions in the entity's wagebill since COLPUERTOS funds,
in its entirety, the existing pension plan on a "pay-as-you-go` basis. The
pension commitments of COLPUJERTOS vis-a-vis its employees are contained in
the labor agreements with the ports unions, which provide terms, for this
benefit, substantially better than those provided under Colombian law to
either public or private employees. COLPUERTOS' management agrees that
leaving the current pension situation unchanged would eventually lead the
entity to a point where it would be unable to afford these payments. In
order to prevent a possible financial disaster in the long term, the proposed
project would include a redesign of the pension system based upon a funding
approach, with contributions required from employees, from COLPUERTOS and,



- 18 -
during its formation period, from the Government, and with pension terms
consistent with those applied in other Government agencies.
3.24      The following steps for relieving COLPUERTOS from the pension
burden and attaining a permanent and stable solution to protect the
retirement benefits of COLPUERTOS' employees and pensioners, as well as for
the adoption of appropriate personnel management policies, were taken prior
to negotiations:
(a)  in February 1985, COLPUERTOS hired actuaries to quantify total
future pension obligations as of December 1984;
(b)  in July 1985, the Government submitted to the Bank a letter of
representation informing of the submission to the Congress, on that
same date, of a Proposed Law to establish a pension fund, separate
from COLPUERTOS' finances, that would be fully responsible for the
payment of the retirement benefits of COLPUERTOS' employees and
pensioners and would be financed with contributions from
COLPUERTOS, its beneficiaries and, in the capitalization period,
the Government. Under the proposed pension fund, the terms of the
retirement benefits would be in accordance with the existing
legislation. The proposed strategy for the establishment of the
new pension scheme is further detailed in paragraphs 3.32 (a) and
(b).
Er)  in July 1985, COLPUERTOS submitted to the Bank another letter of
representation committing itself to continue to implement
management policies aimed at relating workers' compensation to
productivity. The proposed strategy is further detailed in
paragraphs 3.32 (c) and (d).
3.25      COLPUERTOS has been assigned the responsibility for maintenance
dredging in all ports and inland waterways; however, the entity is not
reimbursed for the cost of this operation. Since the early 1980s, because of
the financial crisis facing COLPUERTOS, most dredging activities have been
discontinued and, as an emergency measure, MOPT is financing the 1984 and
1985 maintenance dredging costs. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on the following:
(a)  as part of the project, COLPUERTOS would carry out a study of its
future maintenance dredging requirements, together with the
definition of institutional arrangements to permit the recovery of
related costs; and
(b)  COLPUERTOS and the Government would implement the recommendations
of the study not later than June 30, 1987.
3.26      COLPUERTOS' actual balance sheets for 1980-1984 (Annex 2, Table 2)
show the impact of the entity's past losses upon its equity position. As of
end-1982, COLPUERTOS' equity had reached a negative Col$ 6.34 billion (or



- 19 -
US$90.2 million), ten times its paid-in capital. The 1983 profit, however,
improved the entity's equity position.
3.27      The actual sources and application of fund statements for 1981-1984
are shown in Annex 2, Table 3. The most outstanding feature is the
significant decrease in working capital, during 1981-1982, as a result of
insufficient revenues to cover COLPUERTOS' increasing costs, resulting in
substantial overdue debts with employees and suppliers.
(iii) Future Financial Performance
3.28      One of COLPUERTOS' principal objectives would be to achieve
financial viability by improving efficiency in operations, handling more
traffic with lower operating costs and implementing cost-based tariffs.
COLPUERTOS' financial projections for 1985-1990 are based upon this
objective. They reflect reductions in port operating costs which would
result from increasing productivity as indicated by the fact that, for an
increased traffic, COLPUERTOS' staff would be reduced by attrition. Further
cost reductions, not yet quantifiable, would also be expected toward the end
of the projection period (1988), as a result of the implementation of the
recommendations of a staff rationalization study which would be carried out
under the project. The projections assume that, starting in 19861/, pension
payments would be the responsibility of a pension fund, either existing or to
be established, and, thus, COLPUERTOS' share in these costs would be limited
ornly to the employer's regular contribution in the funding of future
pensions. COLPUERTOS, however, would start making annual special
contributions to the pension fund until the existing pension deficit (accrued
pension liabilities) is covered. These special contributions would be in
relation to service of the employee in the entity; the balance would be
covered by the Government.
3.29      Regarding tariffs, cost-based tariffs would be instituted only when
COLPUERTOS' cost accounting system is developed; therefore, the projections
have assumed only adjustments to maintain the average revenue per ton
constant, in real terms, at the 1984 level. Under the project, COLPUERTOS'
financial viability would be supported by staff reduction targets and by a
revenue covenant, as spelled out in paragraph 3.32 (c) through (e).
3.30      Projected consolidated income statements, based upon assumptions of
paragraph 3.28 and Appendix A of Annex 2, are shown in Table 4 of Annex 2. A
simmary follows:
11 Although transfer to an independent pension fund would not be completed
until the end of 1985, for purposes of the financial projections, it was
assumed that pensions would be recorded as if the fund was in operation from
the beginning of 1985.



- 20 -
Projected Income Statements
(Current Col$ million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Operating Revenues             20,304  26,494  31,288  36,626  44,713  54,703
Working Expensesl/             11,104  13,534  16,128  19,176  22,751  27,066
Depreciation                      271      404     718   1,043   1,150   1,099
Operating Income (Loss)         8,929  12,556  14,442  16,407  20,812  26,538
Financial Expenses                571      723     902   1,294   1,817   2,537
Other Non-Operating Expenses2/ 5,741   7,596   9,057  10,892  13,097  15,830
Net Income (Loss)               2,617   4,237   4,483   4,221   5,898   8,171
Working Ratio                      55       51      5?       52      51       49
Operating Ratio                    56       53      54       55      53       51
The transferring of pension payments to a separate pension fund would have a
significant favorable impact upon COLPUERTOS' operating results; the working
ratio would improve from 83 in 1984 to 55 in 1985, and the operating ratio
from 84 to 56 in the same years. In addition, as a result of cost reductions
which would arise from increasing productivity to be achieved under the
project, COLPUERTOS' projected financial performance would improve steadily
until 1990. Indeed, a major efficiency gain achieved under the project would
be a reduction in the average cost per ton of 24%, in real terms, between
1984 and 1990.
3.31      The sources and application of funds projections for 1985-1990
(Annex 2, Table 6) indicate that COLPUERTOS, after meeting all cash operating
expenses, would generate the counterpart funds required for the project and
that it could make annual special contributions to the independent pension
fund in an amount equivalent to Col$ 6,000 million in constant 1986 prices.
COLPUERTOS' balance sheet projections for 1985-1990 (Annex 2, Table 5) show a
continuing improvement in COLPUERTOS' equity position, as a result of the
projected profits, with equity turning positive by 1986. The revaluation of
fixed assets, to be carried out during the project period, would further
increase COLPUERTOS' equity.
3.32      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with
regard to COLPUERTOS' financial viability:
I/ Include employer's regular contribution to funding of future pension,
based upon a percentage of the worker's salary.
2/ Includes a specia'l annual contribution to fund accrued pension
obligations.



- 21 -
(a) in order to determlne the funding requirements of the new pension
fund, in addition to the actuarial studies referred to in 3.24 (a),
COLPUERTOS would regularly update records and other Information on
its pension fund and other related obligations to serve as a basis,
given the agreed benefit structure, for defining optimum funding
mechanisms from the various sources, as well as pace of the
required funding;
(b) in case the pension fund, as provided in the Proposed Law referred
to in 3.24 (b), is not established in a timely manner, COLPUERTOS
and the Government would put into effect, no later than
June 30, 1986, arrangements satisfactory to the Bank providing for
alternative mechanisms to ensure that the former's contribution
toward retirement benefits will not exceed the amount that would
have been required, had the proposed law been enacted;
(c) not later than December 31, 1987, COLPUERTOS would carry out and
complete a study on the rationalization of staff, taking into
account COLPUERTOS' stated policy relating to labor assignment,
operational requirements and traffic forecasts and, promptly
thereafter, would implement the conclusions and recomendations of
such study;
(d)  COLPUERTOS would refrain from hiring new personnel until it
achieves, through attrition, a reduction of thEe number of staff to
levels compatible with the optimal size of the plant of personnel,
this level to be specified by the staff rationalization study
referred to in (c) preceding (targets for staff levels, in each
port, in the period 1985-1990, are included in Appendix B to Annex
2); and
Ce)  COLPUERTOS would take all measures necessary, including changes in
its rates, to provide, for each fiscal year, funds from internal
sources equivalent to at least 35% of the annual average capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year,
the previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year
after meeting cash operating expenses, debt service, increases in
working capital and other significant cash outflows excluding
capital expenditures and including, startin- in 1986, fixed annual
special contributions to the independent pension scheme to be
adopted in an amount equivalent to Col$ 6,000 million, to be
adjusted annually thereafter by the variation in Colombia's
national consumer price index, until COLPUERTOS' share of accrued
pension liabilities is covered.
F. Economic Justification and Benefits
3.33      The project is designed to reduce transport costs through the
rehabilitation of existing facilities and the expansion of capacity to meet
the demands of expected levels of traffic. The project is made up of three
major components: port infrastructure rehabilitation and improvements, port



- 22 -
equipment acquisition, and technical assistance and training. In the
aissessment of the project's economic viability, each major component was
ar,nlyzed separately by port.  The technical assistance and training component
was not analyzed separately, but its cost was included in the overall project
economic analysis.   A basic variable in the analysis was the traffic
forecast given in Annex 1. Annex 6 gives details of the economic analysis of
each component.
1.34      At present, about 3nx of foreign seaborne commerce ls transported
by Colombian flag vessels and 70% by foreign vessels. Most of the ship time
benefits from the project derived from traffic transported in foreign vessels
would be passed on to the Colombian economy. Without the project, foreign
liners would impose surcharges in order to recover costs of excessive ship
service hours. With the project, these surcharges would be avoided. In the
economic analyses, only 50% of the benefits from reduced ship waiting and
service time of foreign liner vessels have been included, which is
conservative. All other benefits would accrue to the Colombian economy.
3.35      The traffic forecasts are based upon the latest World Bank
forecasts of GDP, import and export growth. These projections indicate that
GDP is expected to grow by 2.5% in 1985 and 5% thereafter. The value of
exports is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 10% and imports 3%
p.a. over the 1984-1992 period. Expected movements of exports and imports
were applied, by commodity, to determine expected cargo volumes. Allocation
of traffic to each of the project ports was based upon past trends, modified
as appropriate to take into account expected changes in technology and
improvements in port efficiency due to the project (Annex 1 and Table 2.2).
tt) Port Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvements
3.36      The project provides for the rehabilitation of quays at the ports
of Buenaventura, Cartagena and Santa Marta. In addition, port
infrastructure improvements would include: (a) extension of the transit shed
roof and paving of cargo handling areas and road access at Buenaventura; and
(b) improvements to cargo handling yards at Cartagena. Together, these
components represent 54% of total project costs.
3.37       Quay Repairs (31% of Project Costs).  Quay deterioration has
progressed to a point where, if the quays at Buenaventura, Cartagena and
Santa Marta are not rehabilitated, berth capacity will decrease dramatically
and seaborne traffic will, by necessity, be handled by a less efficient
lighterage system. Quantified benefits from this component comprise
avoidance of lighterage-related costs, including the cargo double handling
costs and the cost of cargo losses. The estimated economic rates of return
for these works are 86% in Buenaventura, 63% in Cartagena and 38% in Santa
Marta.
3.38      Buenaventura Paving and Roof Extension (10% of Project Costs).
Cargo storage and circulation problems in Buenaventura result from excessive
precipitation, unpaved open storage areas and narrow, poorly maintained port
roads. The main pert road providing access to all facilities is overcrowded
and is used for loading, unloading and temporary storage; its riding surface
is too rough for normal speed operations and safe movement of port cargo.
Quantified benefits from the paving works are reductions in damages to cargo



- 23 -
handling equipment and cargo. Benefits from extensioDs to transit shed roofs
are reduced ship service and truck waiting times through avoidance of work
stoppage during inclement weather. The estimated economic rate of return for
this component is 36%.
3.39      Cartagena Cargo Handling Yard Improvements (9Z of Project Costs).
At Cartagena, the project provides for tearing down of three old sheds and
repaving the entire area, as well as for the construction of a new shed to
replace those demolished, and the paving or repaving of areas to meet the
storage needs of breakbulk cargo. These works will shorten distances between
the ship and the storage areas, improve access to the loading and unloading
areas, increase safe speed limits and generally facilitate ship service
operations. The project results in an estimated economic rate of return of
27%.
(ii) Cargo Handlig Equipment
3.40      The project provides for acquisition of container handling
equipment and heavy load equipment for general cargo (22% of project costs).
The types and amounts of equipment required were determined on the basis of
an analysis of current port equipment available at each port from both
COLPUERTOS and the private sector, equipment requirements assuming the
untroduction of more efficient handling methods, and forecast traffic flows.
An analysis was also made of the merits of COLPUERTOS owning and operating
the equipment versus renting equipment from the private sector. This analysis
concluded that COLPUERTOS sbould take advantage of capacity in the private
sector to provide light cargo handling equipment.  COLPUERTOS could
efficiently provide the container and heavy load general cargo equipment,
assuming that the productivity improvements contemplated under the project
are achieved. Because this component's viability is dependent upon
improvements in productivity, the acquisitions would be divided into two
tranches. Bank financing of the second tranche would depend upon achievement
of productivity and traffic targets (para 3.07). Quantified benefits from
the cargo handling component are reductions in ship service time and in cargo
handling costs. The estimated economic rates of return for container
handling equipment are for Buenaventura 32%, Cartagena 22%, Barranquilla 32Z,
and Santa Marta 29%. The estimated economic rates of return for the heavy
general cargo handling equipment are 16% at Buenaventura, 29% at Cartagena,
38Z at Barranquilla and 25% at Santa Marta.
(iii) Tugboats
3.41      COLPUERTOS tugs are old, with engines which require frequent and
costly repairs. Four used tugs will be purchased under the project (11% of
project costs). Because the tug is an integral part of the efficient and
safe operation of a port, its costs and benefits cannot readily be isolated.
As such, a separate economic rate of return was not calculated, and, instead,
the cost of tug acquisition was included in the overall economic analysis of
the project. The tug analysis focused upon the determination of the most
economic alternative: acquisition of used or new tugs. This analysis
indicates that the acquisition of used tugs is the least cost alternative.



- 24 -
(iv) Overall Project Economic Justification
3.42      The overall economic evaluation of the project, including the
costs associated with the expected institutional improvements (technical
assistance and training) and the tugs is estimated at 38%. The economic
rates of return at the individual ports are estimated at 56% at Buenaventura,
39% at Cartagena, 15X at Barranquilla, and 33% at Santa Marta (Table 3.4).
Ship service time savings are a principal benefit for several of the project
components. In order to avoid double counting, only ship service time
savings associated with the equipment procurement program were considered in
the calculation of the overall economic rates of return. In addition, only
ship waiting time benefits associated with the quay improvements were
considered for the overall analysis.
G. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
3.43      The main risks associated with the project are those of shortfalls
in forecast traffic levels and COLPUERTOS' failure to achieve productivity
targets. While the civil works are not sensitive to these risks, these
associated with the port equipment component are minimized by concentrating
on replacement of obsolete items. In addition, a mid-term review would be
made to determine if traffic and productivity improvements warrant
continuation of the program at the same pace as that currently planned. Even
if no productivity increases are realized under the project, and the benefit
is limited to avoidance of declines in productivity without the project, the
container handling equipment program would be viable, with estimated economic
rates of return varying from 12% at Cartagena to 18% at Buenaventura.
3.44      Of the heavy load general cargo equipment, the Buenaventura
acquisition program is the most sensitive to shortfalls in benefits, partly
because of the high cost of the 40-ton crane, in comparison with the
relatively modest heavy load traffic growth forecast for that port.
Nevertheless, availability of at least one such crane on the Pacific Coast is
considered essential. Benefits would have to decrease by 11% at
Buenaventura, as compared to 43% at Cartagena, 50% at Barranquilla and 38% at
Santa Marta, for the estimated economic rate of return on the general cargo
equipment to drop to 12%. The risk of shortfalls in benefits due to
lower-than-expected traffic at Buenaventura is not considered great since the
traffic for general cargo which would use the equipment was assumed to grow
at a modest 2% p.a. over the project life.
3.45      Another risk relates to the timely establishment of a new pension
system, either through the enactment of the Proposed Law submitted to the
Congress or through alternative mechanisms, which would liberate COLPUERTOS
from the heavy financial burden imposed by the current system. The
Government and COLPUERTOS have already shown their commitment to this
objective by pursuing actively, through negotiations with the port labor
unions, the necessary changes to legally binding labor agreements, and by
initiating the legal process to establish a pension system self-sufficient in
the medium term and financially separated from COLPUERTOS.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Cost Estimates, Finance and Disbursements
4.01      A summary of the estimated costs for the proposed project
components is given on the following page, and detailed cost estimates are
given in Tables 4.1 to 4.7. Cost estimates of the civil works components are
based upon final engineering. Equipment costs estimates are based upon
average current market prices, including attachments and spare parts. A list
of existing and proposed equipment is given in Table 3.1. Technical
assistance cost estimates reflect manpower requirements obtained from terms
of reference; cost estimates for engineering services and studies are based
upon the cost of similar studies in other Bank projects, and training cost
estimates are based upon a tentative training program developed by the
mission (Annex 5). The financial plan for the project is given in paragraph
4.07. All cost estimates are based upon September 1985 prices.
4.02      Disbursements of the loan would be made against:
(a)  482 of total expenditures of civil works;
(b)  100% of CIF costs for equipment procured from foreign sources;
in the case of equipment procured from domestic sources, 100%
of ex-factory prices if the valued added in Colombia
represents at least 20% of the ex-factory price, and 80% of
the cost for imported equipment procured domestically;
Cc)  79% of costs for professional services, including supervision
of construction, technical assistance and training; and
td)  100% of foreign exchange costs for fellowships and work visits
abroad.
4.03      Bank funds are expected to be disbursed over a six-year period
(Table 4.8), broadly in line with the standard profile for port projects in
the region, which indicate that a six-and-a-half-year period is required to
obtain full disbursement. Advance procurement of some of the project items,
namely civil works and equipment, is in progress, and retroactive financing
limited to US$4.0 million would be allowed for expenditures incurred in
relation to these project items after January 1, 1985 and before loan
signature.
B. Execution and Procurement
4.04      The proposed project would be implemented by COLPUERTOS with the
support of PIU (Annex 4) and consultants. Procurement procedures (para 4.05)
were defined by grouping components of the rehabilitation program by port and
type of construction works included, such as quay repairs, paving and
repaving including related utilities, and shed construction. The project
implementation schedule is given on Chart 27106.
4.05      Local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures to be used by COLPUERTOS
(para 3.16) are similar to those used by other Government agencies for which



- 26 -
COLOe'IA
PORT REHABILITATION PUJECT
sunii .ccauatrs COST sunnam
(Cal. Peso Million)                            (USI ^'0
Z Total                                       Total
Z ForeiLsn  Pase                            :           esrei e Bae
Local Foreign  Total  E.charde  Costs   Local  Fareign  Total  Es!2n1e  Costs
a. Civil Works                               14039.9 1,695.4 3'535.3       49      48  1tM.9 11,149.4 23,249.3          49      49
P. Eauipsert                                       - 2,o14.5 2i614.5       1-,0    3n         - 17,194.1 17-194.1      lOG      35
C. Institutional Devlament
1. Technical Assistance                      65.4  250.9   316.2         79      4    430.1  P649.l 2,079.2          7?      4
2. Fellauships and Sork Visits Abroad           -  105.3   105.3        100      1         -   692.3   692.3        1oo       1
3. CoJrSeS and 5mgnars (Consultants)         24.9   95.5   170.4         9       2     163.9   629.2      1          n       2
Stjb-Total Institutional Dewlopunt              90.3  451.6   541.9         03      7    593.9 2v969.7 3p563.6          83      7
D. Projlect Stervision and Studies
1- Suwervision of Canstr.ction               30.8  119.2   149.0        79       2    202.7   m.5   990.2            79      2
. Engineering Studies                      29.6  113.4   143.0          79      2    194.6   746.0   940.6          70      2
3. Port Studies                              92.5  316.4    m.o          79      5    542.7  2M011.1  2i62.9         79      5
Sub-total Project Supervision and Studies      142.9  S4.1   691.0          79      9    '40.0  3,604.6 4-54U          79       9
Total BASELINE CLSTS                            2P073.2 5309..6  7i392.8       72    100  l3963.9 34m17.8 49,551.6         72    100
Pmcsical Continteneen                           207.3  426.4   633.7        67       9   1,363.4 2'904.0 4-167.4         67      9
Price tantiuemies                             l.1.,.2 2,689.7  3i65.9       70      52  29216.7  5t024.3 7.241.1         6!     15
Tetal PROJECT COSTS                             39457.7 M424.6 11i92.3         71    161  17P213.9 42i746.1 599?60.1       I1   123
- - -=  ==_ =__==- -= == _
October 21t 195  14:40
Source: MiSsion estimates



- 27 -
Bank financing is involved. Specifically, during appraisal, COLPPUERTOS
agreed, in principle, with the Bank's recommendations resulting from the
review of LCB in Colombia, as follows: (a) foreign contractors should be
allowed to participate in LCB; the association with local firms should be on
a voluntary basis; (b) awards would be to lowest evaluated bidders; and
(c) bids of imported equipment would be evaluated on a CIF basis, taking into
account the freight costs quoted freely by each bidder. LCB procedures would
be followed for civil works items with an estimated cost of US$0.6 million
equivalent or less, in a manner consistent with normal Bank practice. All
contracts for civil works and procurement of goods with a value of more than
US$200,000 would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
Contracts for less than US$200,000 would be reviewed after the award.
Procurement of second-hand tugboats, Included In the proposed project, would
be carried out through International comparative shopping procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, and contract award would require an independent
technical assessment of the physical conditions and adequacy of the selected
boats. These agreements were confirmed at negotiations. Procurement
arrangements for items to be financed under the proposed loan, excluding
physical and price contingencies, are summarized as follows:
US$ Million   1/
Procurement Procedures
Project Element             ICB     LCB      Other    Total Cost
Civil Works                 27.3     2.2       -         29.5
(13.1)   (1.0)     -         (14.1)
Equipment                   14.1     0.8       5.6       20.5
(14.1)   (0.8)    (5.6)      (20.5)
Technical Assistance
and Studies                  -       -         9.1        9.1
-       -        (7.2)      (7.2)
TOTAL                       41.4     3.0      14.7       59.1
(27.2)   (1.8)   (12.8)      (41.8)
1/ Excluding fellowships and work visits abroad.
Note: Figures in ( ) correspond to the foreign exchange cost component that
would be financed by the Bank.
4.06      Supervision of civil works would be carried out by COLPUERTOS
assisted by consultants acceptable to the Bank. Inspection of equipment
during fabrication would not be required since all equipment should be
suppliers' standard manufacture and widely used and tested around the world.
Final acceptance tests would be carried out directly by COLPUERTOS.
4.07      Details of the proposed financing plan for the project (1985-1989)
are given in the sources and application of funds statement in Annex 2. A
summary follows:



- 28 -
US$ million
Local       Foreign   Total       Z
Funds Required:
Proposed project                 17.2         42.8      60.0       78
Debt service during period        -           17.3      17.3       22
Total Required              17.2         60.1     77.3       100
Funds Available:
Funds generated internally by
COLPUERTOS                     34.5          -       34.5        45
IBRD loan                         -           42.8     42.8        55
Government                      (17.3)        17.3      -          -
Total Available             17.2         60.1     77.3       100
The amounts include physical and price contingencies.  The terms and
conditions regarding interest rate, amortization period, grace period and
service charges are presented in Annex 2, Appendix A. The Bank would finance
71Z of the project cost equivalent to 100X of the estimated foreign cost.
COLPUERTOS would contribute, from its internally generated funds, for the
local cost. COLPUERTOS would also contribute, from its internal cash
generation, for debt service requirements; the foreign exchange required for
this purpose would be obtained from the Government.
C. Special Account
4.08      In order to reduce the interval during which COLPUERTOS would
finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the Bank
would make advance psyments from the loan account into a Special Account for
an amount, in US$, of 4.0 million, which would be opened in the Banco de la
Republica and would be available for reimbursing COLPUERTOS for the Bank's
share of the project cost. COLPUERTOS would be entitled to make withdrawals
from the Special Account for payments incurred on Bank-approved contracts.
The Bank would replenish the Special Account upon request of the borrower on
the basis of statements of expenditures of the withdrawals made. Supporting
documentation of withdrawals from the Special Account would be examined on a
routine baais by regular project supervision missions. Disbursements from
the loan would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures
for local expenditures where the contractual values are less than the
equivalent of US$200,000, and for foreign expenditures where the contractual
values are less than the equivalent of USS20,000. The corresponding
supporting documentation would be verified on a routine basis during the
supervision process. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms and
conditions of the Special Account.
4.09      Under the project, the Bank would require the Borrower to have the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles, consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. COLPUERTOS would forward copies of the accounts and of the
audit report to the Bank, no later than four months after the close of the
fiscal year. At negotiations, the auditing procedures were confirmed and
agreed upon.



- 29 -
D. Project Monitoring, Semi-Annual Consultations and Mid-Term Review
4.10      With regard to project monitoring, COLPUERTOS would prepare
quarterly reports providing information on the progress of procurement; the
execution of the project; the status of each contract related to
Bank-financed components; the status of disbursement requests and the
schedule of estimated withdrawals of the loan proceeds. The quarterly
reports would include operational data to assess the progress in the
achievement of established productivity targets. COLPUERTOS would prepare
reports on items detailed in Annex 7. The achievement of Productivity Targets
would be specifically examined by the Bank and COLPUERTOS in early 1988
(Annex 3, Table 2). This would be assessed by COLPUERTOS and the Bank during
a mid-term review that would take place in early 1988. These matters were
agreed by COLPUERTOS at negotia.0ons.
4.11      Considering the complexity of all matters that would be dealt with
during the implementation of the project, frequent and intensive monitnring
through Bank supervision is crucial. At least three supervision missions per
year are considered necessary. The financial rargets and the targets agreed
at negotiations and the establishment of a new pension system would be
reviewed every six months so that compliance with COLPUERTOS' and the
Government's commitments is closely followed.
4.12      Another important aspect upon which achievement of the project
objectives would depend is the effectiveness of the technical assistance and
training elements that would be included in the project; the PIU that has
been established by COLPUERTOS would have to prepare, in addition to the
tables inclLded in the quarterly report, a separate detailed report on the
progreJs of Lonsultant services in each of the areas described in
paragraph 3.08 (e) and (f).
4.13      Upon completion of the proposed project, COLPUERTOS would prepare a
Project Completion Report to assess the success in the implementation of the
project and would carry out a general evaluation. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that, not later than six months after project
completion, COLPUERTOS would prepare a Project Completion Report,
satisfactory to the Banak, describing the implementation of the project, the
achievement of financial and operational goals and the lessons learned from
past experience.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with COLPUERTOS on the
following:
(a)  to review with the Bank any investment item, not included in the
project, resulting in a capital expenditure in excess of US$2
million. Notwithstanding, COLPUERTOS would not commit itself to
any such capital expenditure unless it were economically,
technically and financially justified (para 2.25);
(b) the scope and timing of professional services (para 3.08);



- 30 -
(c) to prepare with the assistance of the training advisers and submit
to the Bank an integrated four-year training program as a condition
for loan effectiveness (and implement it with SENA and the advisory
services' support) [para 3.09 (a)];
(d) to select courses abroad, candidates for fellowships and
instructors/experts, for courses/seminars in Colombia, not later
than June 1, 1986 [para 3.09 (b)];
(e) additional required light cargo handling equipment to be rented by
COLPUERTOS from private equipment rental companies, unless the
enterprise is able to reduce the operating cost of such equipment
to levels comparable with thoae available in the private sector
(para. 3.11);
(f) to take the necessary actions to implemeot the technical assistance
recommendations for the improvement of port efficiency and
achievement of the productivity targets (para 3.14);
(g) to carry out an inventory and revaluation of its fixed assets by
March 31, 1987 and at least every year thereafter [para 3.21(b)];
(h) to have its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent external auditors acceptable
to the Bank, in addition to the audit carried out by the Controller
General of the Republic [para 3.21(d)];
(i) to regularly update records and information on its pension fund and
other related obligations necessary for defining optimum funding
mechanisms [para 3.32 (a)];
(j) to take all actions necessary to enable the Government to attain
the arrangements for the handling of pension liabilities, should
the Proposed Law for the establishment of the pension fund not be
enacted in a timely manner [para 3.32 (b)];
(k) to carry out and complete, by December 31, 1987, a study for the
rationalization of staff i" a or an-e with operational
requirements and traffic forecasts [para 3.32 (c)l;
(1) to continue reducing its staff by attrition until it achieves
levels compatible with the optimal size of the plant of personnel
[para 3.32 (d)];
(m) to take all measures necessary, including changes in its rates, to
provide, for each fiscal year, funds from internal sources
equivalent to at least 35% of its annual average capital
expenditures incurred for that year, the previous fiscal year and
the next following fiscal year, after meeting cash operating
expenses, debt service, increases in working capital and other
significant cash outflows excluding capital expenditures and
including, starting in 1986, fixed special annual contributions to
the independent pension scheme to be adopted [para 3.32 (e)];



- 31 -
(n) to carry out procurement of goods and services in accordance with
the corresponding Bank guidelines and LCB procedures, satisfactory
to the Bank (para 4.05);
(o) to examine together with the Bank, the achievement of Productivity
Targets during a mid-term review that would take place in early
1988 (para 4.10); and
(p) to prepare a Project Completion Report not later than six months
after project completion (para 4.13).
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with COLPUERTOS and the
Government on the following:
(a) to establish a technical committee with representatives of MOPT,
DNP and COLPUERTOS for the supervision and coordination of the
feasibility study for the Pacific Coast port expansion and the
other studies for which COLPUERTOS would be respon&0ble
(Para 3.17);
(b) by June 30, 1988, and based upon the results of the cost accounting
studies, COLPUERTOS to restructure tariffs to reflect the cost of
services rendered [para 3.21 (c)];
(c) not later than June 30, 1987, to implement the recommendations of
the study on the dredging services required, including
institutional arrangements to permit cost recovery for such
operations (para 3.25);
(d) terms and conditions of the Special Account (para 4.08); and
(e) auditing procedures for the Special Account (para 4.09).
5.03      A condition for loan effectiveness would be the preparation of an
integrated four-year training program [para 3.09 (a)].
5.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$42.8 million. The terms would be 17 years with a four-year
grace period.
October 1985



- 32 -
TABLE 2.1
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sumary Port Traffic in 1983 and 1984 a/
(000 tons)         -
1983
SANTA                      TOTAL
TRAFFIC/PORT  IBUEAVENTURA   CAATAREAA JRANOUILLA    XAlTA  TUKACO              TOTAL    1984
Foreign
Public      2,453.9            708.0          576.9        386.5     -    4,125.3  3,872.
Private          -          5,212.5           716.7          -       -    5.929.2  5,793.0
TOTAL          2,43.                                                 -- 1,293.6  3_5.
Coastal
Publlc         313.1             0.3           14.2          -       -       327.6    n/a
Private          -          2,162.3           239.3          -     682.4  3,084.0    n/a
TOTAL            313.1         2,162.6          253.5          -     682.4  3,411.6    n/a
River
Public                         114.8            7.5          -       -       122.3    n/a
Private          -           1 255 7          242.7          -             1 498.4    u/a
TOTAL                                           250.           -        -    1   7 
-   -                                                         -  -  -_
GRAND TOTAL
Public      2,767.0            823.1          598.6        386.5     -    4,575.2    n/a
Private          -          8,630.5         1,198.7          -     682.4 10,511.6    n/a
TOTAL         2,767.0          9,454.6        1,797.3        386.5   682.4 15,086.8    n/a
0~~~~~~ mmui   --in-                                         *-    m~   ~
a/ Does not include private ports outside COLPUERTOS' jurisdiction.
Source: COLPUERTOS
December 1984



-  33-                            ?A5LIZ.
"aroet lorts: ALec2 Laorec                   Terinal Treffet. 197-o2000
""bawe"  tome]
PSI                 313   19W   INS   1911 3W    153   1941                 331   1B39   I        lI IM   ja    13,1  196   Nfl
1~i                   a      1am   IiIE   leg   1935   IUI   314             aIm   337    Un    171   1.1   333 1       3 1    W1
kts                   In      m     m      en    "l    -        en            in     as  am        ef    m       in      w     "I
-                                                      -~~~~~~
TqwI trdf34 UM               I             69    512   11                           mgU 6   Ub   Sm       El    331    Il    7l2
kiwis                  142    iii    a     4a    so      3      2              7     21    23                           w 31  U  n7
Iid I3d  11                         746    e             M      7             la     m      ii     9sJ5  %n JNg    lo    on
--t's                 43U    II    3Al    53    am      w      4             4U1    U             4114n         9 4 2         7g.
k     8      A      II    41    37    a1               41    46      a      62    71    a       13    19"
d Irdlff           4n    17    a s 5           64    344 au                42 *n        II    9m    so    Su    71    in
bw                     7            N             3      3      2                    M 3           4 s2  i    W  2 7, 2274  4 N
ulrdlags               U     US      U     *u    NI    Ni    36               UP    Il    II       71    9       797   96    3667
nnM   JU  WAMC   37M9    41   42    WI    Aid    4s    3u                      y   3a    4e    41" w    44   m4   So    e
0-   -                     m now        -   -                n o        w         -   .minin
t111o1111111111                            3 no7     S  m-     27            22   27       2Mz D.    1911   lm         3      912
135                   11t   149n IW1       114  Ia    Uai    149    I         1197   IM    124   1202   14    d1u    126   2IS
SoureL   MLPOgh  and udt . ut
Auust 12I5



oNul
MdattSz Iw!M
E*dm!t ancriptiWII CRE=i              In      CRtM                               lu_ml            =M           h;a   UI
in1mvam                                           5tunml!stn
6G;     U ft  tnu*A                       54       39               33      55      -         63       2       -        63     -         -
1S,0O lbs. faolft tna                      4       6       10       4      -I      10         6.       5       6        7      -          4
Tractn                                    1i       IS      -        13      29      -         19      23      -        Jo      -         -
5,aoo lbs. pl3acom                        24        6      22       28      13      23       10       17      29       23                it
12-tm .dbile cram                                          -        -       -       -        -        -       -         2      -         -
16-CM Wilcr                                2       -        2       0        1      3         3       -        3        2      -
40-to w     1 mbla                                          I       -                I       -I                                                      4 
3. Ouiwttxi.a
65,O0 lb. foift twdu& or piw1ait           1        2       2       -       -        4         1      -        I        I      -          I
4,00 lbe. fogullft tng       d       U  3 q --  /   -  3   -         2       3      -         2        3      -         I      -         -
ISSCOO lbt. fosaift tnK*A or eqiw1.ulol   -        -        2       -       -       4        -        -        I       -       _          I
4,OOD lbs. foddift tnwks 5/              -        -        5       -       -        5        -        -       -        -       -        -
5th 1. yadtrata                           -        -       14       -       -       10       -        -        2       -   _              2
6' traAZe. 6                              -        -       12       -       -       12       -        -        4       -       -          4
40'e trailu                              -        -       12       -               12        -       -        4       -       -
I  15hdom ejlpmt that tim           Its. oc      lUfa.
Ftr Ml c ita1mr up to 40' 1q.
For full walem 4p to 20D lag.
hr ay mitanaw lip to 40' la.
For emiffw ax tafm carp.
Ti?.  insd  Xrhl yard tractm.
AU eaxftt  30Dtgi whil cn  ane la svra  2S-eu  old.
Source: CO WUERTO8
November 1984



COLOMBIA                                                        TABLE 3.2
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed List of Equipment and Procurement Schedule
Unit      Estimated
N U M     B E k   O F   U N I T E             Price        Costs
By Port                                       US$  -
Year to                                                    Santa
Equipment Description                      Be Procured    3uenaventura  Cartagena   Barranquilla  Harta            Total
General Cargo
15,000 lbs forklift trucks                            1985-1986             2              3             1            1          7                    2eo
1988                  8             7              5           3         23         40
920
16 ton mobile cranes                                  1985-1986             2              3             3            1         9
1988                 -              -             -            -          -        180        1620
40 ton mobile cranes                                  1985-1986              I             I              1           1        _
1988                  -             -             -            -                   270        1080
3 ton trailers                                        1985-1986             7              5             4           -          16                     80
1988                 15            18            25           11         69         5
345
Container Handling
65,000 lbs. forklift trucks                           1985-1986             2              3              1           1          7                   2450
1988                 -              I             -            -          1       350          350
15,000 lbs. forklift trucks                           1985-1986             2              2             1            1          6                    270
1988                  -             2             -            -          2        45           90
4,000 Ibs. forklift trucks                             1985-1986             3             3             -            -          6                    126
1988                  2             2             -            -          4        21           84
Yard Tractors (5th vheel)                             1985-1986-             7             5             2            2         16                   1120
1988                  7             5             -            -         12        70          840
20' trailers                                          1985-1986             6              2             2            -         10                     80
1988                  6            10              2           4         22        8           176
40' trailers                                          1985-1986             6              7             2            -         15                    180
1988                  6             5              2           4         17        12          204
t-.
w
r



-36-
TATJ& 3.3
COLOMIDA
POLTS RXBILZTATIOW  PROJECT
zlutlna COLPURTOS' Tugboat fleet
Tear of
Port                  Boat                         Power             Coustructiou
Iwmaveutura         lodrigo    tida. (M)               1,200 BP             1953
Rio Caues (*)                      1,200 B              193
Rio Dagus (limited use)            240 BP EP
Cartageu            Pedro lbomro (0)                   1,200 E!             1953
io  anzanares                      70 BP                a
Barranquilla        Sloce de Abril (M)                 1,200 HP             1953
Q.H.-39.3 (river earvices)         374 B               no&
Santa Marta         SantaL Marta                       600 BP              ua
(T) Tugboats that mould be replaced under the proposed project.
Source: COLPUERTOS
Nlovaber 1984



- 37 -
Table 3.4
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case                        Benefits    Costs
Economic Rate  Switching Values   Decreased Increased
of return   BenefitEs    Costs    by 20%   by 20Z
7. -       Z           Z                   X
Quay Rehabilitation
Buenaventura                        86        -97         1,670      76        78
Cartagena                           63        -93           993      56        56
Santa Marta                         38        -72          249       24        24
Infrastructure Improvements
Buenaventura                        36        -61           141      28        31
Cartagena                           27        -56           121      22        23
C(ontainer Handling Equipment
Buenaventura                        32        -55           122      26        27
Cartagena                           22        -34            52      16        17
Barranquilla                        32        -46            86      23        25
Santa Marta                         29        -51           106      23        24
General Cargo Handling Equipment
Buenaventura                        16        -11            12       9        10
Cartagena                           29        -43            75      29        22
Barranquilla                        38        -50            98      28        30
Santa Marta                         25        -38            61      18        20
TOTAL PROJECT                       38        -73           284      32        33
Buenaventura                        56        -87           546      49        50
Cartagena                           39        -71           241      32.       33
Barranquilla                        15        -12            13      11        10
Santa Marta                         33        -67           189      77        98
Source: mission estimates
October 1985



COLOMBIA
PORT REHABILITATION FPOJECT
Table 1. Penavantura
Detailed Cost Titile
Preakdawn of Totals lrSl. Cent
(US '000)
Base Costs                     Totals Including Continseneies                Totals Includind Continflncles             ------------------------------------
(Col. Peso Million)                      (Col. Peso Millioni                                  US9 '000)                                   Local
------------------------------------  -------------------------------------           ...........................................-               lExcl.  psties a
'5  I6  1997  199M  1999 Total    1995  2996   1907   1999  1909 Total           195    1996    1987    1998   1999  Total    For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes    Total
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
...............
As CIVIL  MSI
. ........
aVNo  Repairs               41.4 156.9 156,9 156,9    -   512.0   SO.S 231.6   275.4 324.9    -   892.4    306.7 1.236.3 l.332.2 1,43898    -  41314.0              2:233,8 2090,2          -  4,314.0   co
Pavins and Services         34.9 167.5 224.9  62.3    -   490.0   42.6 247.3   39445 130.1    -   914.6    258.9 13202 1990907   576.2    -  41063.9                19646.6 29417.3          -  4:063.9
Sheds                       24,3  87.2  87.2  24,3    -   222.9   29.7 128.7   153,0  50.3    -   361.7    180.1   686.9   740.2   222.8    -  1,830.0                965,9   864.1          -  11830.0
Bub-Total CIVIL MOAtS         100.6 411.6 469e9 244.0    - 1.224,9  122,9 607.6   822.9 505.4    - 2:059.7    745,6 3.243,4 3.981.1 2P237.9    - 10.20799    4.946.2 5.161,6                     -10,207.9
I. EWIPIEHT
Semral Cargo               103.7  51.9      -  62.9    -   218.4  122.0  73.8          - 125.4    -   321.2    741.0   393,8          -   555.5    -  1:690.2       19690.2        -         -  1,690.2
Container                  169.1  23.6      -  89.6    -   291.3  197,9  33,5          - 179,9    -   410.1  1W2013   179.0          -   791.5    -  2,171.8       2:171.8        -         -  21.7108
Tugboats                       - 1037 103.7       -    -   207.4        - 147.5   175.4      -    -   322,9          -   797,5   848.6        -    -  136.1         1:636.1        -         -  1.636.1
Vorkshor nd Training        18.9     -  17.3      -    -    36.1   22.2       -    29s2      -    -    51.4    13407         -   141.4        -    -    276.2         276,2        -              276.2
Sub-Totel EOUIPHENT           290.7 179.1 121.0 152.4    -   743.2  342.0 254.9   204.6 304.2    - 1#105.7  2,077.0 14360.2   990.0 1,347.0    -  51774.2              5,774.2        -         -  5,774.2
.. ... ....  .... ... ... .... ... ..,.  .... ..... .... ....  ....... .... .... ..... .... ----    ----   --- --------
Total IIIESTMENT COSTS           391.2 S90.7 569.9 396.4    -   968.1  464.9 962.4 1t027.6 809.6    - 39164.3  2.92265 4.603,6 4,971.2 395947    - 15.992,1    10:620.5 5:361.6                    - 15,PZ.1
axr xaas ssa &USS a Masaao  namax au    3333 ut=-X 333S*33  ::::: :::: :::a:::    axans  Xtax-- J3333333  :3:33  == == :::2:z   :3afl33*33 3*:I:S= ;".nzz  :Xa:;nw-
Total                             391.2 590.7 589,9 396,4    - 1:969.1  464,9 962.4 1,027.6 609.6    - 39164.3  2,922,5 4,603.6 49971.2 3:594.7    - 15,992.1    10:620.5 5:361.6                   - 159d .1
October 212 1995 14239
Source: Mission estimates                                                                                                                                                                                          H



COLONPIA
PORT REIASILIIATIOH ROJECT
Table 2. Cartagena
Detailed Cost Table
Preakdoun of Totals lItr. Cant
WUSI '000)
Pose Costs                     Totals Including Contintencies                  Totals Including Continsenclis              ------------------------------------
(Col. Peso million)                       (Coal  Peso Million)                                  (U391  000)                                   Local
-----~------------------------------  --------------------------------------  -------- ------------------------------------                           (E.cl.  Duties I
1985  1986  1987  IM8  I99 Total    1985   1986   1987  1988  1999 Total            1985    1906    1987    1988   1989   Total    For. Exch. Taxes)   Ta;es    Totel
_Azxz *-jtiran  awai s...    s saia 3::::=  *atgi  20t.: 2:az  t:: a: ==stains- .giust ii::: ::-::::S  m:::S: ::::5s tat:::::  ..a                 i t     t ::=S=::    -t . ===tZ=
o. IWES9TrENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
...........
QuaY Repairs                      37.6  835.4  78.2      -    -   201.3   46.0   126.1 137,3        -    -   309.4    279.2   673,3   664.0            -      -  1.616.5        964.7   651.9          -  1,616.5 %
Redelllns Sectors 3 and 4            - 279.S  47.6       -    -   327.3        -   413.0  93,5       -    -   496.5          - 2P204,7   403.9         -      -  2t608.5      1,064,1 1524A4           -  2 609.5
Rewodellind Sector                502 103,1  30.7        -    -   193.9   61.2   152.2  53.8         -    -   267.3    371,9   912,5   260.3           -      -  1.444.8        570.2   874.5          -  1:44e
Services                             -      -     -  17.1 25.7    42,9         -       -      -  35.5 62.9    98.4           -        -       -   157.3 254.8    412.0          217.5   194.6          -    412.0
Sub-Total Clvl Works                87.9 468,3 156.4  17.1 25.7   755.4  107.2   691.3 274.6  35.5 629 1171,5    651.1 3,690.5 1,328.2   157.3 254.8  6.091.9                   2.836.53,245.3           -  6091.9
3, iFeupent
General Cardo                     47.1 110.0      -  73,8    -   231.0   55.5   156.5         - 147i4    -   359,3    336.68   35.2           -   652.7       -  I,924.7      1.824.7        -         -  1924.?
Container                         59.7 224.7      - 154.0    -   438.4   70.3   319.6         - 307.3    -   6972    42646 1706.3             -1,360.9        -  3,49307      3:493.7        -            3,493.7
Tusboat                              - 103.7 103.7       -    -   207.4        -   147.5 175.4      -    -   322.9           -   797.5   948.6         -     -  1:636.1       1,636.1        -         -  1,636.1
Worksho  and Training             20.4      -  18.9      -    -    39,3   24.0         -  31.9       -    -    559    145.9          -   154.3         -     -    300.2         300.2        -         -    300.2
Su-Total Emuirent                   127.3 438.4 122.6 227.9    -   916.0  149.7   623.6 207.3 454.7    - 1:435.4      S09.4 3329.0 19002,9 2.013.5               -  7,254.9      7:254.9        -         -  7,254.9
!otal IMYSTIENT COSTS                  215.1 906.7 279.0 245.0 25.7 1,671.4  257,0 14314s 481.9 490.3 62.9 2,606. 1S 560.5 7.019.5 2.331A1 2.170,9 254.9 13.336.6    10:091.3 3:245.3                          13:336,6
2zV--X zzzzz  cm=== ==== ==.-zzz  =   =  --== z== :_:::-    .           wa isa : .... ui.a.... is.tsx  mmii t ::::     t :-:: :==,=: = :=.: :::  zxa:  J.t:su=:
0t3l                                   215.1 906,7 279,0 245.0 257 1:671.4  257.0 1:314.9 491.9 490.3 62.9 2.60649  1,560.5 7:019,5 2:331.1 2t170s8 254.8 13.336.6    IO091.3 3,245.3                        - 139336.6
aSajn  ttti taut. st:as Rirs =ittt:i-rz_ilt tStin  tg :::           2 : :an  t   7 ::asuA S-asns aste:r::  :::  a::::  s *S::: :::=::su     :=:==: fins ss: a=s             ::_:-::
October 21, 1985 14139
Source: Mission estimates
19



COUOIA
FORT REIAPILITATIOM PROJECT
labie 3. )arrane'llI
Detailed Cost Ttble
Breakdown of Totals Inel, Cant
CUSS '000)                        Perimeters
pase Costs               Totals Includinr  Continrencies        Totals Includind tontinreicies       -------------------------------  ------------------------
(Col. Paso Million)                 (Col, Peso Killion)                         (1us  000)                           Local                     Pht.
-... ------------ .                                            ------  --------------^--------------------- - (Excl. Duties I                        Cant. For.   Grass   Sue
I995 1986  187  1S88 I198  Total  1985 16198    7  1S88  1S8? Total  1985  I96   1987  1919  1989 Total    For. Exch, Taxes)  Taxes   Total    Rate  Exch. Tax Rate ACC
*33:3==33 33333 3*-- 533333   3    8383* 38*3  *333  3333 83333  33383 flxs:g 33333 33333Z 33an .                    ::: :::        3               3:::: 33$- :::::::=::-= =:::: 333:=e3 =s=5Lsss=.
Is IWYESTRENT COSTS
A. Civil Vofris
Eoer toer Plants             -  2.?9     -    -    -  29.9      -  44.1      -     -    -  44.1      -   235.3      -     -    -   2J3.3        235.3      -         -   235.3    0.1      I        0 0
------------------------------ ----------------------- --------  --- --- - --- --
9t-Total Civil  krse            -  29.9     -    -    -  29.9      -  44.1            -    -  44.1      -   235.2      -     -    -   235.3        231.3      -         -   235.3
3. Esinmnt
General Caro             550  5.         - 50,3    - 163,4  64.7  82.7       - 100,4    - 247,8  3929   441,5       - 444,4    - 1.2788       1i279,9       -        -1,279.!   0.06       1        0
Containers                   - 94,9      -  1.9    -  92.7      - 1207      -  15,7    - 136.4       -   644.3      -  69.4    -   713,8        713,8      -         -   713.9  0.06       1        0
lu*bat                       -103.7 103,7    -    - 207.4       - 147.5 175,4           - 322.9      -   797,5 848,6           - 19636.1      1,636.1      -         - 1,636.1   0.06      1        0
Vorksham  and Tralnins    18.9     -  17.3    -    -  36.t 22,2       -  29.2      -    - 51,4  134.7         -141.4      -    -   276.2        276.2       -        -   276,2   0,06      1        0
._ . ...   ....... .... .....  .... ...   _.___,, . ....   ,,,., .....   ..... ......  ..... .... ... ....... ........._._ ...... ....... .... ..
8th-Total Eulpeent          73,8 246.7 121,0 56.1    - 499,7  86,9 350,9 204,6 116.0    - 758,5  527,7 15873.3 990.0 513.8    - 3,904.9         3,904.9       -        - 3M04.N
Total IIYESTMENT COSTS          73J8 2765 121.0 58.1    - 529.5  16,9 395.0 204,6 116,0    - 802.6  527.7 2M1M8.6 ff0,O 513.8    - 4,140,1          49140,1       -        - 4,140.1
Total                            73.8 276., 121.0 58.1    - 52985  86.9 395,0 20046 116,0    - 802.6  527,7 2.109'6 990.0 513.9    - 4,514.1         4.140,1      -         - 4.140.1
Octoer 211 195 14139
Source: Mission estimates



COLOIDIA
PORT REHAPILITATION FROJECI
Table 4. Snt, Marta
Detailed Cost Table
Breakdown of Totels Irdl. Cont
(USI '000)
Pase Costs                     Totals Including Contingencies                  Totals Incl'jding Contingencies                              -
(Col. Peso Nillion)                       ICol. Peso Million)                                (US$ '000)                                   Local
-------------------------------------  ......................................  ....................--------------------------                     (E.xcl,  Dule  I
1995  1964  1997  19M   1989  Total    1"5   1986  187  1988  1989  Total    1985   1986    1987    198            1989    total    For, Etch. Taxes)   Ti:es    To'.al
5Z:3: :::::  Ja::= sam : zA asa *U . sass::: &Za:: sugz33 53333 Sar     3       35ss  a55A3  s: S:- 3a55S: c----  r335 3:5     333533s3 ==zzmau33   :_=:3::3 333:::3:    335wT.
1t IIWESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Vorks
Gusa  Repairs I1  2 and 3    '9.3 424.6 353.9 223.6 114.6 19195.9   96.8   626.9 621.1 463.2 280.2 2M0O7,M  587.6 34345.8 3,004.5 2,050.9 1.135.5 10,124.2            4,933.3 5,290,9         - 10.124*2
uay Repairs 4 an  5         24.1  83    83.5  83.5  39.6   314,2   29.4   123.3 146.6 173.0  96,9   569.0  178.4   658.0   709.1   765,9   392.5  2,703,5             1,290.9 1,413.0         -  2,703.8
Services                       -   9,0   6.0      -      -    1511       -    13.3  10.6      -     -    23,9       -    71.2    51.1        -        -    122,3         97.0    25.3         -    122.3
---          ---     -----  -----  ---     - ......     .....   .......   ......    -------- . ----   ---     ------     ------     --- -     --- -     ---- -   -- ----     ----     -----. --- -
Sub-Total Civil VorPs         103.3 517,1 443,3 307.1 154,3 1,525,1  128.1   763M4 778,2 636.1 377,0 2,660.8  766.0 4,075.0 3,764.7 2,916.6 1,528.0 12,Y50,3             6,221,1 6,729.2
B. Esuieeint
Eeeral Cargo                   -  64.4      -  69,1      -   133.6       -    91.6     - 130.0      -   229.6       -   489.2        -   611.0        -  1,100.2      1,t00.2       -         -  1t100.;2
Contaivers                     -  79.6      -      -     -    78.6       -   111it     -      -     -   111.9       -   596.6        -                -    WM6.6        596,6       -         -    5?6.6
tudovat                        - 103.7 103I7      -      -   207.4      -   147.5 175,4       -     -   322.9       -   787.5   649.6        -       -  1,636.1      1,636,1        -         -  1,636,1
Voist.op and lrainihn       18.9      -  173      -      -    36.1   22.2        -  2NJ2      -     -    51,4  134.7        -   141.4        -        -    276.2        276.2       -         -    276.2
Sub-Total Eeuirsent             18,9 244t7 121.0  69.1      -   455.7   22.2   350,9 204.6 1390        -   715,7  1347 1,873.3   9.0   611.0            -  3.609.1      39.09.         -        -  3,609.1
Total IIMESTIENT COSTS            122.2 763.8 564*3 376,2 154.3       1     4990.9  1493 1,114.3 982.8 774,1 377.0 3.396,6  900.8 MU948.3 4,754.8 3,427.6 1,528.0 16,559.4  9.a30,2 6,729.2         - 16.559.'
"--,; :5333 ::3 33::3 :33:3 3335*53  *-5::: *: ':::3            :35="33  3:333:3  :5:: ::s::3   s:ss:wa  333a333 3:53333 33:33333  33:3:::::  ::3353: 33: :03.  Z:3-.-33
Total                              122.2 763,8 564,3 376,2 154.3 1e 980,9  148,3 1,114.3 992.3 774.1 377.0 3,396,6  900,8 5,948,3 4,754,9 3.427.6 1,529.0 169559.4           99830,2 6,729.2           16i359.4
:_: :::   ::   :: ::::a 33333:3:33 5=-   ::sos          3S  aJ  SSSU:::, 3:   33   33  3:: :5  333  3::55333333  3333333  33333w g:X :  ::::ss  :35::5:::=    S:::::: :a:     ::.J .5--
---  -  -----------_   ..................__________.__.................................................................   ----------------------------------------   -___________.________________________---------------.....-.-----------------..... _____-_._ _
October 21. 1995 14139
Source: Mission estimates



COLOflhA
PORT REIIAPILITATION PROJECT
Table S. Institutional Developsent
Detailed Cost table
Irea&do.m of Totals mnel. Cant
(US51 000)
Pase Casts               Totals Includind Contingencies           TatU1s Includins Continsencies          ------ ----------
(Cob. Peso Nillion)                  (Col. Peso million)                          (U51 '@00)                              Local
----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----  ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -,(E utiesits I
199   M96  191  IM1  1999 Total  1915  l3 199 ? 19 19 1998I?9 total   1?65    191    1997  IM1  199 total    For. Cxchi. Tares)  TaXes   Total
-    --------------~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                -
A. Institutional Nvelant
1. Technical Assistance
Financial Controls                                 36.1  25.6  7.M             69.3   *4,1  37,8  133.2    -    -  95.1    267.9   201,7  63.9        -    -   533.5        421.2  110.4          . 533.5
TMransent Infomation Systems                       33.1  10.5  9,0    -    -52.7   404  15.6  15.9    -    -  71.9    245.5    93.1  76.7             -    -   405.4        321.5   93.9         -   405.4
Part &,tratzons                                    40,7  31.6 10.5    -    -91.1   60.7  46.7  19.5    -    - 125.9    349,    249.2  99.             -    -   707.0        560il9  146.2             707.0      5
Naintenane                                         57.2  34s6 10,5      -   102.4   69.9  5!!l  29.5    -    - 139.5    424.2   272;9  89.5           -    -   786.6        23.   162.7         -   796.6    4..
Sub-Total Technical AsIistance                       176.1 202.  37.6    -    - 316.2  255.1 251.1  66.2    -    - 432.3  19306,1   906.9 319.6          -    - 29432.5      1,929.4  503.1          - 2,432.5
2. Courses and SemInars (Consultants)
Advisors Services                                   6.0   7,5  6.0  6.0    -  25.6    7.4  11.1  10.6 12.5    -  '2.5         44.7    59.3  52.1  55.2    -   210.3         166.19  43.5         -   210.3
Tralnini Seminars                                  19.6  63.2  7.5  4.      -  94.9   23.9  93.   23.2  9.       - 139.9    145.1   491.3  63.9  41.4    -   749.9          593,9  154.9         -   748.9
1gb-Total Courses eNd Seminars (Consltants)           25.6  70.9 13.  10.5    - 120.4   32.3 104.1  23.9 21.9    - 192.         239.9   55'S1 U1151  96.7    - 959.1           760M   1914           -   95911
3o FellwsshIrs and Mart Yisit. Abroad
Nanuesent Training                                    -  14.1 1.0    -    -  25.1        -  20.9  19.3    -    -  40.2          -   213.4  93.4      -    - 20A.8         2104.3       -        -   204.5
Conferences                                           -   4.7  4.7  4.7    -  14.1        -   7.0   3.3  9.3    -  25.0          -    1-.l  40.0  43.2    -   120.4         120.4       -        -   120.4
Fellowships                                        26.9  27.3M 17322.       -  66.0   23.0  25.5  30.3 26.0    - 204.9    139.81  236.2 146.9 115.3    -   539.1            536.1       -        -   5394:
Su-Toasl Fellowships and Matk Yisits Abroad           19.9  36.1 33.  17,1    -105.3   23.0  53.   57.9 35,5          170.l1239.5   264,3 23M,  158.5              8 63.       963.        -              63.3
subTotal Institutionial Devlosset                       NM.  209,3 34,2 27.9    - 542.9  269.4 300.9 147.9 57.6    - M137  2,635.7 1,649.2 718.9 255.2    -4,255.0               3,553.   701.5         -4rM550
Total 2INSTIEN' VI'STS                                     220.6 209.3384,2 27.9    - 542.9  269.4 306.9 147.9 57,6    - 793.7  1.63597 29649.2 714.9 255.2    -4.255,              3,553.4  701.5         - i,rs.0
suaaa sian iucs SMSa sass gasmig   art:    nvas maz   &Asio" a sa sases.   AS nan- zWWSia arias sangags mC      m as      ua.TsEXASzMaRS"ian   asita.
Total                                         M,~~~~~~~~~206 209.3 14,2' 27.31   - 542,9  269.4 300.9 147.6 57.6    - 783.7  1.635.7 19649.2 714.9 255.2    - 4,255,0  3,553.4  701.5        -4,255.0    :O.
Total                                        53553~~~~~~~~~~~~~aza  53515 3533 SEEM Bass axaca  *=*ftzaz iiiii  WSiii iifl813  SCala  ala1asaa iitfl* 2  J  an: tinz ira:aaas a WV-2        zt
Uctot.e' 219 1955 14139
Source: Mission estimates



COLOIA
PORT RHABILITATION FIECT
Table 6. PFonct Swtvision of Construction srd Stuoies
Detailed Cost Table
Fase Costs                  Totals Includige 2rtimtencies               Totals Includini  tontintmncies
(Col. Peso Million)                     'Col. Peso Million)                              (USO 1000
195 1996  199'  jQeP 1999 Total  1995 1I86  197  1998  1989 Total    1905   1996    1997   19I9  1999 .:tel
:c:: ::xat : .:n    :33 ::s : 3C 3:_  :a:3=  = a:=:: . 3_: =:z:::                             --222  :===: S   :::=:   ===_:::
1 INJESTMENT COSTS
A. Project Suervision of Construction and Studies
1. Suervision of Construction
UNAVENTURA                                                      4.5  16.6  l.1 120    -  51.2   5.5  24.4  31.7  24,9    -    56.6   33.5   130.5   153.4 110.5                -   427.9
CARTAGENA                                                        1,5  10.5  15,1  1.5  1,5  30.1   1.8  15.6  26.4   3.1  3.7    50.6   11.2    53.1   127.9  13.8  14.   250.I
PARRMASUILLA                                                       -   1.5      -    -    -   1.5        -   2.2      -      -    -      2.2       -    11.         -      -     -    11.3
SANTA MiTA                                                       4.5  16.6  16.6 16,6 12.0  66.2   5.5  24.4  29.1  34.3 29,4   122,9   33.5   130.5   140.6 1-!.0 11'.]   575.9
Sub-Total Supervision of Construction                              10.5  45*2  49,7 30.1 13,5 147,0  12.9  66.7  97.2  62.4 33.1   262.2   79.1   355.9   421.9 276.2 134.2 19266.4
2. Enirneerlns Studies
FiNAL PESIGN SECOND PORT MROACT                                    -  72.3  70.8    -    - 143.0         - 106.7 124.2       -    -   230.9        -   569.5   600.9        -     - 1.170.4
Sub-Total Endineerir.d  Studies                                       -  72.3  70.       -    -143.0        - 106.7 124.2       -    -   230.9         -   569.5   600.9       -      - 19170.4
3. Port Studies
FEASIPILITY STUDY                                              57.2 231.0 132.5 30.1    - 350,8  69.9 193.4 232.6  62,4    -   559.1  424.2 1:03:.2 1-125.1 276.2                  - 2fr57.7
PEMDOINO SIUDY                                                     -  27.1  21.1    -    -  48.2         -  40.0  37,0       -    -      7.0       -   213.6   179.0        -      -   392.t
Sub-Total Port Studies                                            57.2 158.1 153.6 30.1    - 399.0  67.9 233.4 269.6  62.4    -   635.1  424.2 1*245.9 1,304.1 276.2                  - 3250.2
Sub-Total ProJect Supervision of Construction and Studies             67.7 275.5 274.0 60.2 13.5 691.0  92.7 406,.7431.0 124.7 33.1 1s121.3  502.4 2Y171.2 2,326.9 552.3 !!'.2  ,6937.0
Total IUESTWNT COSTS                                                     67.7 275.5 274.0 60.2 135 691.0  92.7 406.7 481,0 124.7 33.1 1*12.3  502.4 2:11.2 2.326.9 552.3 134.2 5*697,0
::a::::       :::na a t sam:sa a nSX  =::S ax :: :3::. ea:::  3:3s =3   Z.9::   .*n=  z:-- :   z     a=: s     - :   = ::--
Total                                                                      67.7 275.5 274.0 60.2 13.5 691.0  82.7 406.7 481.0 124.7 33.1 1*128.3  502.4 2*171.2 2.326.9 552.3 134.2 5657.0
:::: ~   ~      ~      3 ::_:::an :=8.   a ::=:  a:::: =:;:: 3:t ==:      :   ::::a   =-ao-n     :   =a --:         
--                                                                                        - ---                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zc    taZ2-"z--- -a  in az=2-s
October 21* 1185 14:4O0
Source: Mission estimates



MUT KIMIILIATAION MAECT
osWCT cOST suwa
(Col. PM  Million)                                cuSs '000)
Z Total                                       X Total
I Foruisn  lise                               2 Foreif,n Pase
Local Forersi    Total  Exchuu'e   Costs   Local  Fereisn   Total  E:;chmte   Costs
:Satin  anai  aSaXSaa  nannmm= :Sant: a::--                      .*5 ::::: - tL   = -
A. Port Rdeabilitation
... ...._.._. .._
1. lmnawntura                                            643.6 1.32405  1,968.1        67      27   4?232,7  8,710.4 12,943.1         67      27
2. Carta.l                                               404.0 1267.4  1,671,4         76      23   2Y657.0  8334.9 10,991.9          76      23
3. hrtrnuilla                                                -   529.5    529.5       100        7         -  M1482.2  3.482,2       1OO       7
4, Santa Tfte                                           7M.3 1188.35  19980.8          60      27  5,210.2  7,916,0 13.026,2          60      27
Sub-Total Port Rteabilitation                            I1S39.9 49309,9  6,14948         70       83  12,099.9 29,343.5 40.443.4        70      93
3. Institutional  vulogmnt                                   90.3   451.6    541.9        83        7     593.9  2,969.7  3,563.6        83       7
C. ProJect Supervision, Ensinegrini and Sector Studies      142,9   543,1    691.0        ?9       9      940.0  3,604.6  4.544.6        79       9                                         C
Total IASELIME COSTS                                        2.073,2 5.309,6  7M392.9        72      100  139633.9 34,117.9 49,551.6        72      100
Ptuical Contingenies                                       207,3   426.4    633.7         67       9   1.363.4  2M304.0   467,4         67        9
price ContinSocies                                       1.177,2 2,698.7  3,865.9         70      52   2,216.7  5,024.3 ?7241.1         69       15
Total PMAECT COSTS                                          3 45707 9,424,6 11,982,3        71      161  17,213,9 42,746.1 59,960.1        71      123
=ass=-  azi--s  =aflaniw amsm:Xas  m:2anna  ..m-=-.: nss:--:: 5: a             :::   *==:: 
October 21. IM5  14140
Source: Mission Estimates
Ir
tEl



45 -
Table 4.8
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ millions)
Disbursements
FY/Quarter                                          Annual             Cumulative
FY1986
December 31, 1985                                     _                     _
March 31, 1986                                        0.7                   0.7
June 30, 1986                                         4.3                   5.0
FY1987
September 30, 1986                                    3.0                   8.0
December 31, 1986                                     3.0                  11.0
March 31, 1987                                        2.5                  13.5
June 30, 1987                                         2.5                  16.0
FY1988
September 30, 1987                                    2.0                  18.0
December 31, 1987                                     3.0                  21.0
March 31, 1988                                        4.0                  25.0
June 30, 1988                                         4.0                  29.0
FY1989
September 30, 1988                                    2.0                  31.0
December 31, 1988                                     2.0                  33.0
March 31, 1989                                        1.5                  34.5
June 30, 1989                                         1.5                  36.0
FTY1990
September 30, 1989                                    1.0                  37.0
December 31, 1989                                     1.0                  38.0
March 31, 1990                                        1.0                  39.0
June 30, 1990                                         1.0                  40.0
FY1991
September 30, 1990                                    0.8                  40.8
December 31, 1990                                     0.8                  41.6
March 31, 1991                                        0.8                  42.4
June 30, 1991                                         0.4                  42.8
Source: Mission estimates
September 1985



- 46 -
ANNEX I
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Traffic Analysis
I.   Methodology
1.        Virtually all of Colombia's foreign trade volume is seaborne and
moves through its public ports and private berths, and port traffic closely
reflects the international economic and financial situation of the country.
At present, imports are determined not by demand but by Colombia's depleted
foreign reserves, low levels of foreign inveatment and credit. Export levels
are largely dependent upon coffee and sugar; these commodities are controlled
by international agreements and movements of international commodity markets,
over which Colombia has little or no control.
2.        Between 1980 and 1983, GDP grew at a rate of only 1% p.a., with the
value of exports declining by 5% p.a. Imports declined in 1980 and 1981 and,
after a recovery in 1982-1983, again in 1984. The most recent Bank economic
projections indicate that GDP is expected to grow by 2.5% in 1985, and by 5Z
p.a. between 1986 and 1992. Exports of goods are expected to grow in terms
of value by an average annual rate of 10Z per annum over the 1984-1992
period, while imports will grow at a more modest 3% p.a. These projections
are predicated upon the assumption that the proposed Bank Export Development
Project will be implemented and that world economy conditions will be
favorable. The import projections take into account projected increases in
income, the income elasticity of demand for imports, and changes in the trade
regime for the major import categories. For the major export commodity,
coffee, the World Bank projections of price increases and increases in world
demand were utilized. For the remaining export commodities, product-by-
product projections of price and quantity changes were made, taking into
account expected exchange rate movements.
3.        The traffic forecasts used in the appraisal of the Colombia Port
Rehabilitation Project were prepared by the mission in cooperation with
COLPUERTOS. Forecasts were made for each of the public terminals to be
rehabilitated under the project: Buenaventura, Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta. In making the forecasts, the World Bank estimates of export and
import movements were applied, by commodity, to determine expected cargo
volumes between 1985 and 2000. Allocation of commodity import and export
traffic to each of the ports was based upon past trends, modified as
appropriate to take into account expected changes in technology (particularly
containerization) and improvements in port efficiency due to the project.
II. Characteristics of Port Traffic Flows
4.        Colombia, through its ports, imports food, raw materials and
intermediate inputs for its agriculture and industries, and exports such
traditional agricultural products as coffee, bananas, sugar and molasses.
Total waterborne commerce exceeded 15 million tons in 1983. This total



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
includes 10.5 million tons of hydrocarbons, fertilizers, cement and minerals
handled by private berths and 4.6 million tons handled by the public ports.
Of the traffic handled in the public ports, some 4.1 million tons were
handled by the four project ports. The public port at Buenaventura on the
Pacific coast handled 2.5 million tons in 1983 while, at the Atlantic ports,
Cartagena handled 707,000 tons, Barranquilla 550,000 tons and Santa Marta
390,000 tons.
5.        After a period of rapld growth in the late 1970s, foreign trade
through the major public ports declined sharply from 4.9 million tons in 1980
to 3.8 million tons in 1984. Imports feLl largely as a result of Colombia's
worsening payments situation, while the decline 1ix exports resulted mainly
from the weakness in world demand for its sugar and molasses and the
diversion of coal exports to private ports. The stagnation of port traffic
affected some ports more than the others. Worst hit was the port of Santa
Marta, whose traffic declined by over 40% as a result of diversion of traffic
to other ports. On the other hand, the port of Cartagena actually registered
a small increase in its traffic volume on the strength of its expanding
container traffic.
6.        All four project ports are fundamentally general cargo ports.  Only
Buenaventura and Santa Marta have mechanized facilities for bulk cargo
handling and storage. Specialization, in terms of traffic flows that have
developed (banana exports via Santa Marta, or barley imports via Cartagena),
has been determined largely by the ports' proximity, or by inland transport
links, to the plantation or processing locations.
7.        Most of Colombia'-s seaborne coimyrce is, and will likely remain,
with the industrialized countries of Eur4pe, with Japan and with the United
States. The country's own maritime fleet, which carried 30% of the public
port cargo in 1983, has recently been modernized as a result of a major ship
construction program. While the aggregate number of ships visiting Colombian
ports has declined in recent years, their average size has increased.
8.        Until recently, Colombian ports have been slow to containerize.  Tn
1978, only 103,000 tons, or 4% of the general cargo traffic, were handled in
containers, as compared to 468,000 tons, or 19% of the general cargo traffic,
in 1984. The first full container ship service, CAROL, was established in
Cartagena in 1981, followed by EUROSAL in Buenaventura in 1984. Both
consortia are foreign-based and operate titth self-sufficient ships, but they
depend upon the ports to provide container storage and handling facilities
and equipment.
III. Commodity Forecast
A.  Exports
Ci) Coffee
9.        Coffee traffic represents about 55% of total exports through the
project portg. CoEFee exports through the project ports increased at an
average rate of 1.9% p.a. between 1978 and 1984. During that period, coffee



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
traffic dropped in 1980 through 1982, then recovered by 1984. Based upon
projections of world demand and prlces, it is expected that coffee exports
vill increase at a rate of 0.6Z p.a. between 1984 and 1992.
(ii) Sugar and Molasses
10.       Sugar and molasses exports represent 15% and 5% of total project
port exports, respectively. These commodities are handled as bulk traffic by
the port of Bueiaventutra. Sutgar exports fluctuated from a low of 124,000
tons in 1978 to a high of 293,000 tons in 1983. In 1984, these exports
dropped to 167,000 tons. A modest increase of 1.3% p.A. between 1984 and
1992 is expected for this commodity. Even with this growth rate, sugar
traffic will not reach the high of 1983 over the forecast period. Molasses
traffic demonstrated a similar trend, dropping from 126,000 tons in 1983 to
52,000 tons in 1984. Molasses traffic is expected to remain at this lower
level over the forecast period, growing to only 58,000 tons by 1990.
(iii) Banana
11.       Banana traffic accounts for 6% of total export traffic handled by
COLPUERTOS. Bananas are also exported through specialized facilities not
administered by COLPUERTOS. All of COLPUERTOS' banana traffic is expo-ted
through the port of Santa Marta.  Total Colombian banana exports betwetoi 1980
and 1984 grew at a rate of 4.7% p.a. The banana traffic through Santa Marta
grew at the same pace over the period. In the traffic forecasts, it is
assumed that exports through Santa Marta will continue to grow at the same
rate as overall Colombian exports, or 2.8Z p.a., uritil 1990.
(iv) General Cargo
12.       Other general cargo traffic, which is made up mainly of
heterogeneous goods, represents 19% of export traffic through the project
ports. This traffic fluctuated between 124,000 tons and 225,000 tons from
1978 to 1984. Rapid growth in this traffic is expected as the proposed
Export Development Project is implemented. Exports of other general cargo
traffic are expected to grow at a rate of 10.9Z p.a. between 1984 and 1990.
Tle growth ts expected to be distributed evenly among the four project ports.
B.   Iports
(i) Grain
13.       Wheat and other cereal imports account for about one-third of
import traffic through the project ports. Wheat iaports grew at an average
rate of 5.8% between 1978 and 1984. Over the same period, imports of other
cereals declined by 19% p.a. During this psriod, there was a shift in bulk
grain traffic from S.nta Marta and Barranquilla to Buenaventura. This trend
is expec.ed to be reversed as the large and relatively modern grain silo at
Santa Marta, which 10 years ago handled nearly 300,000 tons of grain imports
but which now handles less than 50,000 tons, will be reactivated outside the
proposed project by the owner, the Agriculture and Cattle Marketing Institute
(IDEMA). This facility has the potential for providing the most efficient



- 49 -
ANNEX I
and least costly trensshipment of graln to the Bogota metropolitan area.
Overall, wheat lmports are expected to increase at a reduced rate of growth
of 2.2Z p.a. until 1990, and other cereals are expected to remain at current
levels. The growth in traffic Is expected to be concentrated at Santa Marta,
however, where grain imports are expected to increase from 53,000 tons In
1984 to 280,000 tons by 1990.
(il) Petroleum Produ:ts
14.       About 5Z of Import traffic is made up of petroleum produrts, which
are mainly handled at Buenaventura. The petroleum berth is operated by
ECOPETROL. The decline in petroleum product traffic, from 389,000 tons in
1982 to 120,000 tons In 1984, experienced by Buenaventura is expected to
continue. It ls expected that, after 1987, Colombia will no longer import
petroleum products.
(iII) General Cargo
15.       General cargo forecasts vere developed by grouping COLPUERTOS'
trafflc into several categories (food, consumer durables, raw and inter-
mediate products) and applying the corresponding World Bank projections to
these for each port. General cargo import traffic grew at a rate of 5.5%
p.a. between 1978 and 1980, then declined by 4% p.a. until 1984. With the
revitalization of the economy, the trend is expected to be reversed, and this
category of traffic is expected to grow at a rate of 2.5% p.a. at the four
project ports. Despite this growth, the high of 1980 will be reached only by
1990. The smaller ports of Barranquilla and Santa Mdrta will experience the
highest growth rates, 2.8% p.a. and 3.3% p.a. respectively. Buenaventura and
Cartagena's growth rates are expected to be 2.5% and 2.0X p.a. respectively.
IV. Containerization
16.       An estimate of the rate of containerization was made after the
comodity projections were completed. It is estlmated that 90% of coffee
exports and 70% of general cargo exports will be conzainerized by the year
2000. Buenaventura, on the Pacific coast, is expected to follow, after a lag
of about two years, a pattern similar to that which occurred in Cartagena.
For Atlantic coast port import traffic, it is estimated that, by the year
2000, 752 of potential cargo will be containerized at Barranquilla and Santa
Harta, and 54% at Cartagena. At Buenaventura, 54% of potential cargo will be
containerized by the year 2000.
Percent of Potential Cargo Containerized
(percent)
Barranquilla       Cartagena      Santa Marts      Buenaventura
Exports
1984 (actual)     22               29               27                24
1990              40               55               51                47
1995              55               70               68                77
2000              70               85               85                82
Imports
1984 (actual)     10               18                7                18
1990              17               29               15                29
1995              21               39               19                40
2000              27               54               25                54



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
V.   Traffic Forecast by Port
17.       Tables 1 to 4 of this annex present past trends In traffic at each
of the four project ports and expected levels until the year 2000.
Buenaventura's import traffic is expected to decline by 1.6% p.a. between
1984 and 1990 while exports are projected to increase by 2.0X p.a. The
decline in overall import traffic reflects the diversion of grain to Santa
Marta and the declines in petroleum product traffic. General cargo is
expected to grow at a higher rate than average (2.4%).
18.       At Cartagena, total traffic is forecast to increase at 3% p.a.
between 1984 and 1990. Exports show the highest rate of growth, 5.8% p.a.,
as compared with imports, 1.5Z p.a. Barranquilla's traffic is expected to
increase by an average of 2.3% p.a. Exports are projected to grow by 10.9%
while imports will realize a modest increase of 1.4% p.a. Santa Marta is
expected to register the highest growth of the four ports, or 7.6% p.s. Most
of this growth is attributed to redirection of grain imports through the
Santa Marta bulk facility. Besides the rapid growth of grain, traffic
increases are expected to be relatively modest at Santa Marta. Traffic other
than grain is expected to increase at a rate of 1.9% p.e. between 1984 and
1990.
October 1985



- 51 -
COLOMBIA                                                                                              ANNEX I
Table 1
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Traffic Projections - Buenaventura
UCT114                       F1ri                                                         7
IIUTY                       197        157       ;D3        193       1932       193       194                    91<     1UU        1917       193        1939      199       19         2000
on', htk                           21        37         43        371        "                      4                  52         0         43        47         4f        44          u        715
mat                                 a         31        204       275         51m      4013        11                 442        444        433       40U4       3         3          44U       571
Other                                         MA        232        9         30         77         43                   40        43    a     5        1           1        47         91       144
Upli  Ml                           333       113        *13       103        544       3 1        2D5                  22        234         2        22S        22        229        179       20
" ltow    retct                    2S4       440       *n5        320        39        212        120                  141        94          2        73         75        74          0         0
Edible Bil                          53        so         29        21         94        13         44                   44        44         47        47         4         43         13        U
Ulu                                 41        93   U 19            11h        33        Di         3                    92        94         97       too        103       107        122       151
Iowal c-                           40        119        11        723        4         425        b19                  59        4          04        474        49        711   n 17           93
k      kt                          Si7       5s3        611         1          4       57           7                  41        4s         49        502       503        50        43         430
Ctaler                              33        31         70        47         42        S0        112                  130       143        MI        174        193       211       32         10
TuTf t139035                      12:t      11i 06l    172       1405       1915     171        1441                 1401      237 1337             1372      1ul        1391      2          14
--,-
Dr   lIlk                          124       213        24        171        293       293        iI                   1I9       172        174       177        119       082        194       2
PAW                                124       233        241       17I        23        m 2        t7                  19         12         174       177        179       132       194        203
U1 i-  bit                         120       1N         269       102        21        12          52                   53        54         55         1        57         S         40         a
120       133        2         102        121      U1           12                  53         14         55       5S          7         5 s        0         a
wal Caro                          407       411       47t        39        35         314       393                  403        414       429        44U       441       431        541         12
Cbffr                             32         393        391       313        31t       327        33                  340        343        347       351        5         39        314        334
Ote                                 73        72         U         IL         41        37         17                   43        71         32       9n         110       I          177       29
O   %ick  Iralulk               372        424       424        30        290        314       293                  31         2         231        27        2         257        11U        10
Of  ick  umtainar                 35        41         47        39         49        50          5s                           123        143       149        197       229       122        512
TOU.EIVU                           451       3          9          77        77n       7C3         12 *                            0        ae         479       701       724       7n         911
711 PUT T         IC              Uv T0 1909  249      2         2          2         2          200                  22        2019       2036      M0         202       2117      254       2ni
i"    blk                          39        k5         704       S50        954       m          74t                  491       U79       7n         44         130       in         757       91n
liuid blk                          50        751        32        45         6n92      47         37                   34        23         231       211        2         27         29        272
bnukl k                            939      1          L0031     1041        93         39        E3                   73        731        m         779        m         762        107       550
cint                                43         77       117         3        111        1o0       207                  213       27         3u        3Dt        3         440   *41           2012L
Source: COLPUERTOS' and mission estimates
April 1985



- 52 -
COLOMBIA                                                                                   ANNE I
Table 2
PORTS REMABILITATION PROJECT
Port Traffic Projections - Cartagena
0mmi                        1m7       197      190       196      1932      1933      14                 13       193       137      ItU       19K       199      1991      260
Dratylt                         133      123       22     1001        233      1       1271                  13       126      129     16         132   M34   WS             247
IF    It 133                             12       175       in       I2        144      127                 126       1        129      130        2        134      I3        l7
Cwuls                           1SB      12        175      too       IC                 12J                121      IJ        129       IJII     1S2       Ut        D        1to
Ui  hklk                        7         7       22        Ik         4        &        19                1i        24        17        11       19        20      28        3a
uuwgarp                        302       34       m         33        34       332       3                  37       397       46        41        a        4        42 
rdhlbk                         2%        341      322       297      321       27       317                 292      311       310      311       311      310       m        21
Cutaur                                    13       it        39       33        It       71                  78       a         is      165       115       12       1"       29
TMuf  1wU                      447       30       S55       452      33        5so      534                 s0       341       S1       364       377      59        117      132
E-
kwal CrP                       142       176      191       IS7      123       266      213                 27       2"        322      311       as       424       ml       19
Cff.                            is       1S       120                 a        115      145                 147      14        10       12        134       234      237       1i
Otsw                            74        7        7t1        9       33        Is       120                232      150       I72     I         231      2U        374        27
0 fIciiruakbdk               13        17       179      1ts       I         12       no                  147      17        170      176       119      In        lit       143
U fich catimr                  4         9       12        33       23        Is       77                 112      12        14       172      2no                 so 2     U
MOA3.L P173                   142       17      191       LO        2        205      24S                 279      29         22      31        3S5      424       331      793
TUTU PiT TWFFIC                 309      iNo       741      k10      "         707      7"                   3       837       I3I      910       93       I0       1100      I525
dryhukk                        IN        123       173      10t      In        144       127                126      123       129       10       12        13       150       117
Iqilid ul tk                     7         7       22        14         1        &        19                 15       14        17       13                 20        25       30
trNukilk                       432       D2       S0l       402      421       393       505 4SO                     43        40       435      *490       49       441       39
coutar                           12       22       43        92      5*        144       143                190      213       243      27        315       340        2       93
Source:  COLPUEROS' and mission estimates
April 1985



- 53 -
AUnX 1
COLOMBIA                                                                 Table 3
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Traffic Frojections - Barranquilla
_IILLA
C11 193                          97     1913    1931    193      IM      1914            1m      1        197     19       4 t    1       199     2345
3ryhJk                     33      122    t1       12Z     191    201       149             142     144     142     14      140      142     t       2
mat             u4                         147     119     35      1347     10              in2     In             t12       96      91      13      t
e9ho                        2       5       12       3      24      54      42               40      42      43              44      44       a 
WWI Cp                     310     443     459     44      417    30       301             2M       36      317      a      w                407     435
Ir"WI                    344     42*     *11     19      30      27       2i7             27      m       27      D7       35      9       217     MR
CatSmer                    14      23      4U       a       33 U            34               32      36      41      47      is      a        1      l2a
TOTAL INP                 413      545    h13      5O      60 u     07     430              GI      es      459     471     417     492     32       76
&Mal ca'                  60       52      44       54      40      37      37              41      44      A0       a4      a2      4      11      I"
bult                                9       *2      40      25      23      7 2              31      33      37      41      45      50       a       72
Cauls                       4       3        4      lb      15       9       A               t0      13      1       it      24      33 s     2      1in
11I11 E                             S i i S2  Si           a       37      37               Z 1     44      s0      50      42  U 9         114     1"
TOTL PT TP*IC              473     417      34     Su       44     544     47               42      S017  
drylBlk                   3U    i2         159     122     191     201     149              142      44     142     14      140      142     33      243
hakhul                     422     449     473     399     409     30      29               2       3935    313     3t      32               37      411
Cmtaiw                      .1     26       S2      45      43      37      42               42              57      a   U            9      12      241
Source:  COLPUERTOS' and mission estimates
April. 1985



- 54 -
AMiNEX 1
Table 4
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Traffic Projections - Santa Marta
ISTI HUTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOGS
INPORTI ~ ~          ~         ~        ~        ATItFWS
Dryhitk                            1II       I99       24          132        32         43        53                  11!        241       173        217       252        210       344        423
eARt                               III       IF         173        110        29        23         I3                  115        141       173        227       252       230        344        423
Other                                0        10         76        22         53         20         5                    0          0         0          0         0          0         0          a
Uqfidhlt                             3         a         11          7        12          5         7                   t0         10        10         10        10         10         0          0
PetralieueFradectg                   I         a         11          7        12          5         7                   10         it        t0         10        to         10         0          0
Imeal Carp                         29        304       259        221        230        II   13i   14                  170        191       297        203       214       226        250       NI
kibeehrl                           292       300        249       211        221        145       172                  151        179       277        179      1to         10        201        215
Cutalem                              3         4         10         1o         9         II        12                   14         17        20         24        29         34        49         71
TOTL  iEUT                       49    11             52t  4     360        124       209        244                  29        352        335        430       476       514        394        709
Dry bit                            102       241         33        70         10          2        14                   2    10         10   L          10        10         10        20         10
Eowal Carl                         227       742        219       133        201        171       237                  242       247        253        260       266        273       297       32
Cuff.l                             110       164        11       III         132       I9         143                  145        146       143      149         11         153       1 5      213
goods                               54        10         52        52         14         74        a                    37        9          92         91        II        to0       115        123
Other                               13        1a         11        20          5          I         9                   20   11              13         15        17         20        27         3
0f thick brtelblk               225        233       216        175        157       133        172                  15        167        161        154       143        141       134        25
Offh   cI     tsjg                 2         I          3        la         44        43         is                                        92        9          we       100        163 2o
TOTNLEMIP                          329       333        302       253        231        173       251                  252       257        263        270       276        233       30         33
7TOAL PUT 1NFFZC                   320      3I4         524        623       625         3        495                  547       609        643        700       752        79        952       194
idrydk                             290       340        337       202        162          5        a7                  125         10%      1og        227       262        29         54        433
11q1dh   b alk                       S          a        11          7        22          5         7                   10         10        10         10        10         10         0          S
IVHIkhUIk                          517       533        445        334       37         2         344                  321        341       33         333       333        331       3          25
cfahr                                5         13        13         20        53         54        77                  101        107       112        120        2         134       212 341
Sourceg COLPUERTOS' and mission estimates
April 1985



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Evaluation
A.   Introduction
1.        COLPUERTOS, since 1975, has operated as a state-owned commercial
enterprise with financial and administrative autonomy. Under its present
organization, defined through Decree 1174 of May 14, 1980, COLPUERTOS has
one Central Office in the city of Bogota and special offices in those cities
which have ports. The Central Office has been assigned the following func-
tions: (a) planning, programing and control of national port development;
(b) planning and execution of investment programs; and (c) determination of
the entity's administrative structure and salary scale. The responsibili-
ties of the port terminals are defined as follows: (a) planning and execu-
tion of port operations; (b) preparation, execution and control of the
port's annual budget and preparation of financial statements; (c) mainten-
ance of installations and equipment for the normal operation of the port;
and (d) personnel management based upon guidelines of the Central Office.
2.        All COLPUERTOS revenues come from services provided by the ports
under its jurisdiction and from charges to private wharves. The Central
office has been assigned 20X of each port's revenues plus all collections
from private wharves, and each of the ports retains 80% of its own
revenues. The resources of the Central Office are used to cover the costs
of administering the office, the investment programs, the repair of civil
works and equipment and the servicing of the external debt and of the
internal debt when destined for investment. The resources of each port are
used to cover the total cost of their functioning. The ports are allowed to
use cash surpluses, produced after covering port operating expenses, in
civil works and in equipment acquisition, provided that this is in
accordance with the national port development plan and has the prior
approval of the Central Office. The ports can also incur debt with local
banks to cover cash operating deficits. However, all loans from foreign
banks or loans from any origin to be used in investments can be obtained
only by the Central Office. Although some flexibility was allowed in the
distribution of revenues between the Central Office and the ports (20%-80Z)
until 1983, the percentages were to be enforced starting in 1984.
B.   Accounting, Budgeting and Audit
3.     COLPUERTOS' accounting system is computerized.  Each port does its
own accounting and forwards, to the Central Office in Bogota, summary copies
of its monthly income accounts and balance sheet data. The information is
used in Bogota to prepare consolidated statements for COLPUERTOS as a whole,
which are issued every six months. The accounting system, however, needs to
be further strengthened; some recording procedures such as billing, accounts
receivable and payroll are not uniform for all ports, preventing a proper
comparison of the ports' performance and delaying the preparation of
COLPUERTOS' consolidated financial statements. Also, important accounting



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
functions, such as fixed assets and inventories, are still carried out
manually because of the lack of adequate computer programs. Finally, the
presentation of financial data needs to be improved to provide each
management level with information to control its respective responsibilities
effectively. It was agreed with COLPUERTOS during appraisal that the
financial technical assistance under the proposed project, to be provided by
consultants, would include a complete revision of the general accounting
system. The scope of the consultants' work in this area, as described in
terms of reference prepared by COLPUERTOS and the appraisal mission
(Appendix C of this annex), would cover a revision of procedures and of the
administrative organization of the accounting department as well as the
preparation of manuals. The consultants would also be responsible for
implementing their recommendations and training involved staff. Outline
terms of ieference for upgrading management information systems have also
been attached to this annex (Appendix D) since they provide key data for
interpretation of financial results and planning of future operations. It
was agreed with COLPUERTOS that the contracting of technical assistance for
the upgrading of the financial and management information systems could be
made either separately or under a single contract, and, therefore, the terms
of reference included as Appendixes C and D of this Annex are merely an
indication of the scope of the work required.
4.    Fixed assets are substantially undervalued; the last revaluation
(1973) was canceled in 1974. Although the generally accepted basis of
valuation of plant assets is that of costs less accumulated depreciation,
the effects of inflation and rapidly changing price levels, such as in
Colombia, make it necessary to review the methods of valuation. Assets
should be revalued from time to time in order to avoid matching, in
financial statements, monetary units of substantially different values.
Revaluation should also apply to those assets which are fully depreciated
but still in use. It is recommended that appreciation be recorded in
accounts and that depreciation also be based on the higher written-up
costs. To meet these requirements, COLPUERTOS' management has agreed to
carry out an inventory and revaluation of the entity's fixed assets by March
31, 19S7. and at least every year thereafter. The identification of
appropiate systems for revaluing assets would be the responsibility of the
financial technical assistance consultants to be contracted under the
proposed project (Appendix C). COLPUERTOS would carry out the revaluation
and would contract outside assistance, as necessary.
5.     At present, COLPUERTOS' income accounts are classified into cost
centers, or centers of responsibility. This grouping of accounts, however,
does not allow for identifying costs and revenues by individual port
functions or services. Since the ultimate aim of a tariff policy should be
to enable the entity to generate sufficient revenues to cover its operating
expenses and provide a reasonable return on the net fixed assets at the same
time that it maintains a reasonable relationship between tariffs and costs
of each function or service, it is imperative that COLPUERTOS institute a
cost accounting system suitable for this purpose. This requirement would be
fulfilled through the financial technical assistance of the proposed loan,
which would cover the design and implementation of a system to identify
costs of the various services provided by the ports, with the corresponding
manuals and training of staff involved in this function.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
6.     COLPUERTOS prepares annual operating and investment budgets, on a
cash basis. Each port does its own detailed revenue and expense cash budget
and submits it to the Central Office, where the budgets are consolidated and
approved by COLPUERTOS' Board. The investment budget is prepared by the
Central Office, taking into account cash operating surpluses and each port's
investment requirements. Budgeting control is strict; each port prepares
monthly cash flow reports which are sent to the Central Office for review.
Although the existing budgeting process is satisfactory for programing and
controlling current day-to-day operations, budget preparation is long and
tedious, and budgets are not issued until late (November-December) in the
year prior to the budget year. It was agreed that the computerization of
the budgeting process would be included in the financial technical
assistance component of the proposed project. The financial consultants
would also expand the scope of budgeting with a view toward covering, in
addition to the entity's cash-flow position, an income and expense budget to
monitor the financial performance during the year.
7.     COLPUERTOS has no long-term financial planning.  As a consequence,
capital investments and other business decisions are not subject to
comprehensive economic and financial analysis to evaluate their impact upon
COLPUERTOS' finances over the long term. COLPUERTOS has agreed to
strengthen its financial planning functions with the aim of formulating,
periodically, comprehensive long-term financial plans simulating COLPUERTOS'
economic and financial situation resulting from the combined impact of
budgeted operations, proposed capital investments, settlement of existing
obligations, and financing sources. In this respect, the financial
technical assistance consultants to be contracted under the proposed project
would be responsible for defining the functions and methods for the
analysis, which would be conducted regularly by COLPUERTOS' financial staff.
8.     COLPUERTOS has an internal audit unit which reports to the General
Manager. The current structure and operation of this unit are based upon
recommendations of a study of internal auditing carried out by Price
Waterhouse in 1981. The internal audit unit, which is concerned with many
aspects of accounting and finances as well as with operations and
administration, pays regular visits to the ports to review the application
and adequacy of internal controls and procedures in the above-mentioned
areas. Although the internal audit system is generally satisfactory, the
results are, many times, hampered by the complexity of the existing
information systems and procedures. It is therefore expected that the
proposed financial technical assistance would substantially facilitate the
internal audit functions.
9.     COLPUERTOS' external audit is performed by the office of the
Controller General of the Republic of Colombia; the external auditors
produce annual audit reports on COLPUERTOS' financial statements. Although
these reports include some recommendations for improvement in accounting
practices and internal control, they lack the analytical scope of a
commercial audit. It was discussed and agreed with COLPUERTOS that, in
addition -* the audit of the Controller General, COLPUERTOS would hire
independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
C.   Tariffs and Costs
10.    COLPUERTOS' existing tariffs, which are applied uniformly to all
ports, bear no relationship to the cost of providing each port service.
First, in the case of charges to vessels and charges for cargo handling,
lump sum charges are applied instead of separate charges for each individual
service provided. Second, tariffs are set arbitrarily to cover the overall
costs of the entity without taking into account the specific cost of each
service in each port. Third, some tariffs are denominated in local currency
- tariffs on exports - and others in US dollars - tariffs on imports and
tariffs to international vessels; therefore, exchange rate movements affect
these tariffs differently. COLPUERTOS has not raised tariffs since
mid-1980; consequently, only those tariffs denominated in US dollars have
kept pace with the depreciation of the domestic currency. As a result of
these three factors, the price of each service is not related to its cost.
Thus, some services are taxed implicitly to subsidize others, with no clear
rationale. The need to revise the present tariff structure to eliminate
these distortions was discussed extensively with COLPUERTOS and the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport. Agreement was reached that tariffs would be
revised when cost accounting 's implemented. In this respect, the financial
technical assistance consultants would be responsible for formulating and
applying an appropriate methodology for setting tariffs.
D.   Past Financial Performance
11.     COLPUERTOS' actual income statements for the period 1980 to 1984 are
summarized below and detailed in Table 1 of this annex. The balance sheets
and sources and application of funds statements for the corresponding period
are shown in Tables 2 and 3 of this annex respectively.
Actual Income Statements
(in Current ColS/. millions)
1980      198i        1982        1983      1984
Total Operating Revenues    9,597       11,145      12,936     14,961    16,569
Working Expenses             9,726      12,529      15,123     12,524    13,697
Working Income (Loss)         (129)    (1,384)    (2,187)       2,437      2,872
Depreciation                   171         168         171         197       231
Net Operating Income (Loss)  (300)    (1,552)    (2,358)        2,240      2,641
Financial Expenses (Net)       212         128         259        399        250
Other Expenses (Provision
for future Pensions)         -           -          -         1,555      2,391
Net Income (Loss)             (512)    (1,680)    (2,617)         286          0
Traffic ('000)               4,927       4,093      4,628       4,125      3,872
Average No. of
Staff Employed            11,923      12,053     12,210      11,266      9,865
Pensioners                 N.A.        N.A.       6,206       6,505      7,005
Ratios
Working Ratio                101         112         117         84         83
Operating Ratio              103         114         118         85         84



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
While revenues increased by 35% from 1980 to 1982, working expenses
increased by 55% over the same period. Apart from inadequate tariff
increases coupled with a reduction in traffic, staff costs, which form about
90% of working expenses, increased considerably as a result of higher social
benefits and the hiring of additional staff, reaching levels which
represented about 92%, 100% and 103% of total operating revenues in 1980,
1981 and 1982 respectively. By year-end 1982, total accumulated losses
amounted to CoIS/. 6.95 billion (or US$98.9 million), and COLPUERTOS equity
had reached a negative ColS/. 6.34 billion (or US$90.2 million).
12.       It should be noted that COLPUERTOS' staff costs include, in
addition to salaries and related benefits, provisions for future payment of
unemployment allowances (severance payments) and actual pension payments to
COLPUERTOS retirees. Since each employee receives, when leaving the entity,
a one-time unemployment payment equivalent to one month's salary for each
year of service, Colombian law makes it compulsory for employers to
establish a provision which should reflect, at the end of each fiscal year,
the total accrued liabilities pertaining to this benefit. The annual
adjustment to this provision, resulting from salary increases and from the
additional year of service with the entity, is reflected as an operating
expense, although it does not entail an immediate cash outflow. On the
other hand, COLPUERTOS has to bear the financial burden of pension payments
to its retirees, which the entity funds in its entirety and with benefit
terms substantially better than those provided under Colombian Law to either
public or private employees. Together, unemployment and pension costs
accounted, during 1980-1982, for about 28% of total personnel costs.
13.       COLPUERTOS' financial results, however, improved substantially
during 1983, and COLPUERTOS generated a net operating profit of about
ColS/. 2,240 million (or US$25.2 million). These improvements were
possible, despite an 8% reduction in total traffic, because of important
corrective measures, undertaken by a new administration appointed in late
1982, which consisted of ending all fixed-term contracts, reducing overtime
payments and mcdical expenses and reducing COLPUERTOS' staff through
attrition.. These corrective measures also contributed toward increasing the
number of employees who retired and/or resigned voluntarily because of the
continuing reduction in the average salary which serves as a basis for
unemployment and future pension payments. Consequently, these measures
resulted in a reduction of 1,943 employees in 1983 (16%) and a reduction in
personnel costs (excluding unemployment and pension costs) of about 32% in
real terms in 1983 as compared to 1982. Although pension costs increased by
about 12% in real terms in 1983 because of the increase in retirements, the
annual adjustmenc to the provision for unemployment was substantially lower
than in previous years since it is calculated for the employees who still
remain with the entity at the end of each year. As a result, total
personnel costs were reduce.d by 31%, in real terms, in 1983 as compared to
1982. The actual 1984 results show a slight improvement in COLPUERTOS'
financial performance, as compared to 1983, despite a 6% drop in traffic,
because of additional staff reductions.
14.       COLPUERTOS has been assigned the responsibility of dredging in all
ports and inland waterways. The service is provided by its dredging office,
Bocas de Ceniza, located adjacent to the port of Barranquilla. However, the
entity is not reimbursed for the cost of this operation. In the early



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
1980s, because of the deep financial crisis facing COLPUERTOS, most dredging
activities were discontinued. In 1984, as an emergency measure, MOPT
financed maltenance dredging costs and It will bear this cost again In
1985. However, an Institutional definition for future maintenance dredglng
In Colombia would be required. A study on the dredging services required for
COLPUERTOS operations, including a definition of institutional arrangements
to permit recovery of costs related to dredging activities, is being included
under the project. Implementation of reconmendations of the study would
imdiately follow.
15.     Because of the poor financial results of 1981 and 1982, COLPUERTOS'
cash posltion deteriorated sharply in those years, as shown in a substantial
decrease In working capital (Table 3 of this annex), reflected mainly in
higher overdue debts with former and current employees (pensions,
unemployment and leave payments). Despite an Important luprovement In its
cash position in 1983 and 1984, COLPUERTOS will still require at least until
end-1986 to catch up with delayed payments (Table 6, Note No. 3, of this
annex).
3. Financial Objectives
16.    One of COLPUERTOS' principal objectives would be to achieve financial
viability by improving efficiency in operations, handling more traffic with
lower operating costs and implementing realistic cost-based tarlffs.
COLPUERTOS' revenues should be able to cover total operating expenses, debt
service charges and a fair contribution to the capltal needs of the port
system. However, since it is generally recognized that COLPUERTOS' operating
expenses are still excessively high, the following complementary targets have
been defined:
(a) COLPUERTOS would continue reducing its staff by attrition during
1985-1990, which would result in a reduction of at least 205
employees p.a. In this respect, COLPUERTOS has committed itself to
seek, during future labor negotiations, a rationalization of staff
in line with operational requirements and traffic forecasts; and
(b) COLPUERTOS would take all measures necessary, including changes in
its rates, to provide, for each fiscal year, funds from internal
sources equivalent to at least 35% of the annual average capital
expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred for that year, the
previous year and the next following year, after meeting cash
operating expenses, debt service, increases in working capital and
other significant cash outflows excluding capital expenditures.
Consequently, in addition to the revision to tariff structures,
tariff levels would be adjusted whenever necessary to ensure that
this target is met.
It has been felt that the cash generation covenant, referred to in (b) pre-
ceding, addresses COLPUERTOS' cash requirement more directly given the
magnitude of COLPUERTOS' non-cash expense items (provisions for unemployment,
depreciation) and the low value of fixed assets, which make difficult the use
of other measurements of financial viability (e.g., working ratio or rate of
return).



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
F. Future Financial Performance
17.       Financial projections for the period 1985-1990 have been made in
current ColS/. pesos. The financial assumptions upon which they are based
are listed in Appendix A of this annex. Five important assumptions are the
following:
(a) the financial projections assume reductions in port operating costs
to be achieved under the proposed project from increasing
productivity, as reflected in the fact that, for an increased
traffic, COLPUERTOS' staff would be reduced through attrition.
Also under the project, COLPUERTOS would carry out a staff
rationalization study which would result in additional cost
reductions starting in 1988. However, since its impact is not
readily quantifiable, it has not been included in the projections;
(b) since COLPUERTOS' tariff structure would be revised only by June
30, 1988, once cost accounting is developed, tariffs have been
adjusted to maintain the average revenue per ton constant, in real
terms;
(c) starting in 1986, pension payments would be the responsibility of
an independent pension entity or fund, either existing or to be
established, and, thus, COLPUERTOS' share in these costs would be
limited only to the employer's regular contribution in the funding
of future pensions. Consequently, only these contributions have
been recorded as an operating expense. However, COLPUERTOS would
start making annual special contributions (non-operating expense)-
to the pension fund until the existing pension deficit (pension
liabilities accrued up-to-date) is covered. The special
contributions would be in relation to the service of the employee
in the entity; the balance would be made up by the Government;
(d) COLPUERTOS would continue charging to operating expenses the
adjustments to the unemployment provision resulting from the
additional year of service with the entity; adjustments to the
accumulated provision to include latest salary increases would be
considered non-operational; and
(e) COLPUERTOS would continue bearing only the costs of maintenance
dredging of port basins and alongside quays under its direct
administration.
A summary of the consolidated income projections is shown as the
following page.



-    -                           ANNEX 2
Projected Income Statements
(Current ColS7. millions)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Operating Revenues           20,304  26,494  31,288  36,626  44,713  54,703
Working Expenses             11,104  13,534  16,128  19,176  22,751  27,066
Depreciation                    271     404      718   1,043   1,150   1,099
Operating Income (Loss)       8,929  12,556  14,442  16,407  20,812  26,538
Financial Expenses              571     723      902   1,294   1,817   2,537
Other Non-Operating Expenses 5,741   7,596   9,057  10,892  13,097  15,830
Net Income (Loss)             2,617   4,237   4,483   4,221   5,898   8,171
Working Ratio                    55       51      52      52       51      49
Operating Ratio                  56       53      54      55       53      51
I8.       COLPUERTOS' operating results would Improve suebstantially between
1984 and 1985, an a result of excluding from the operating costs the portion
of pension and unemployment costs which do not pertain to the current port
operation [para 17 (c) and (d)]. Between 1984 and 1985, the working ratio
would improve from 83 to 55 and the operating ratio from 84 to 56. Moreover,
the working ratio would improve rapidly from 1984 until 1990, as a result
efficiency gains to be achieved under the project, which would bring about a
reduction in the average cost per ton of about 24% in real terms.
19.       Since the proposed project has been designed to assist resolution
of the prlncipal problem affecting the ports' finances, it has been
conditioned to COLPUERTOS and the Government taking action to give an
adequate solution to the pension issue, by seeking the establishment of a
contributory pension scheme for COLPUERTOS' workers, with benefits consistent
with those prevailing in other Government agencies.
20.       In line with the preceding condition, the Government oubmitted to
Congress (July 1985) a Proposed Law establishing a pension fund separate from
COLPUERTOS' finances that will be fully responsible for the payment of the
retirement benefits of COLPUERTOS' employees and pensioners, such pension
fund to be financed with contributions from COLPUERTOS, its beneficiaries
and, In the capitalization period, the Government. Should the Proposed Law
not be enacted within an agreed timeframe (June 30, 1986), COT.PUERTOS and the
Government have agreed to put into place an alternative mechanism to ensure
that COLPUERTOS' contribution toward the retirement benefits of its
employees and pensioners will not exceed the amount of the contributions that
would have been required from COLPUERTOS had the Proposed Law been enacted.
21.       In early 1985, COLPUERTOS carried out actuarial studies to
determine future pension payments based upon assumptions established in the
existing Colombian legislation. The results indicate that the present value
of future pension payments of COLPUERTOS' existing pensioners and workers
amounts, as of December 1984, to about ColS/. 50 billion in 1984 prices.
Although the validity of the assumptions used in the calculations is still
under review, the figure gives a reasonable indication of the order of
magnitude of pension obligations. However, further studies need to be
carried out to produce, based upon COLPUERTOS' present benefit structure, as



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
well as alternative ones, cash outflow projectlonse which would serve ad a
bases for determining alternative funding m_chanisue, including sources and
pace of the required contributions. COLPUERTOS would regularly update
related records and information.
22.       COLPUERTOS' forecast sources and applicatlon of funds for 1985-1990
are shown to Table 6 of this annex. A summary follows:
Summary Sources and Application of Funds
1985    1986      1987     1988      1989     1990
Sources
Internal Sources           9,571  13,397   15,669   18,037   22,639   28,432
Borrowings                   103   1.758    1,98d    2.640    2.357    5,677
9,674  15,155   17,657   20,677   24,996   34,109
Applications
Capital Expenditure.       1,759   4,402    3,326    2,372    3,956    8,240
Loan Mspaymenst              448      411      217       207      641    1,136
Interest Payients            215     287       413       661      921    1,365
Working Capital-Increase  2,720   2,371        675       762    1,062    1,297
Pension Fund               5,000   6,000    7,100    8,400    9,900   11,700
Total Applications         10,142  13,471   11,731   12,402   16,065   23,738
Increase (Decrease)in Cash  (468)  1,684    5,926    8,275    8,931   10,371
Cash at Beginning of Year  2,325   1,857    3,541    9,467   17,742   26,673
Cash at End of Year         1,857   3,541    9,467   17,742   26,673   37,044
Under the assumptions used (pare 17 and Appendix A), COLPUERTOS' total
sources of funds over the 1985-1990 period would be sufficlent to meet
capItal expenditures, debt service and working capital requirements and to
contribute toward the funding of the separate pension scheme, to cover the
current pension deficit, in the amount of ColS/. 6,000 million p.a., in
constant 1986 prices.
23.       COLPUERTOS' Balance Sheet projectlons for 1985-1990 are shown In
Table 5 of this annex. By end-1986, COLPUERTOS would have covered all
overdue short-term debts, and, in addition, its equity would again turn
positive. The revaluation of fixed assets, not yet reflected in the
accounts, would further improve, starting in 1987, the entity's equity
position.
G. Sensitlvity of Financial Forecasts
24.       The main risk assoclated with the project would be the uncertainty
regarding traffic levels. However, since traffic has been projected to grow
at a modest average rate of 1.8% from 1985 until 1990, a decline in traffic
growth, of say 50Z, would have a negligible impact upon COLPUERTOS' projected
financial position.
October 1985



- 6 la_
aJn.6A                                  A1W 2
il BUFsYn w
(in Qgwt 001$ MWAMu)
19M       1961      l92       11         U
1. OSaT RUVDf
1. ShlpZi  W'SUrA       N 9615                     729       925     1,02       1,122
2. Sd.p lnszvg   Md lihg               2,96      3,3%?     4,035     4,700      5,7
3. Var1    Bwv1u.D Skdp1 46                         55                   28        29
4. Privmte WhRrs.                        195 l17             193        275       365
5. Cap P dlHi                          5,412     6,.>9     7,1147     7,603     8,579
6. fd1    t Pant                          64        52        as        62        418
7. S al TrLff.44d  Surims                256       287        m2       4.2        42
8.&    0                                  46        89       106       a34       577
Taoel (3epratl  _r    m              ,Sw     11,145   -l;i     i1           16W
II. Crw  OQ5SE
1. Diect Fig        Outs
1.1 Variable Lbr                    1,777     2,1U9     2,576     1,821     1,966
1.2 Femnt Staff
1.2.1 Opuratios                 1,171     1,1479    1,814     1,46D     1,438
1.2.2 Adnistration               422        577       678       5.9       707
Tocal               Sff        1V I6                                    2,145
DItal Perrl Oto                                                        VMT;7w1 ,1
2. Iuidrect erumml Qtos
2.1 Social Osto
2.1.1 Variable labr             1,405     1,759     1,993     1,636     1,434
2.1.2  truIt Staff
2.1.2.1 Operatio            917     1,222     1,44A     1,391     1,m9
2.1.2.2 Anustratim         539       873     1 MS      1 007     1 151
Sib-Total P1rm . Staff   1,476      2=.05                         2 2
Sub-Ttal Socil Costs            2,881     3,854     4,485     4,0       3,621
2.2 IUmpoyhqt (taWE,r) 1/           1,429     1,.V4     1,619       360       985
2.3  umiPymt.2/                     1 1>      1,745     2 M3.    2,7        31466
:D4otl Inim  Persmel c 6, 5%  360ff   f&d i1w   W.
Sub4otal Persmat Cotts                          11,098    1,275    10,9S2       l,186
3. Odor W     drkg  ai E_                942      14818              1,572     1 511
btual Wozkl*  P 1q                     9,726    1WZ    15,123    12,524   T3?7
4. DmruciatLor.                          171       168       171       197       231
Ibtal OFptra   Exqpm         n         9,897    12,697    15.       12,721    13,92B
IIMIr    ATh  DiE (Loss)                    (300)   (1,552)   (2,358)   2,24n      2,641
Mv. FDWIA E       S    (N?t)                 212       125       259       399       25
V. OM    EXPEES 3/                                                       1.555     2,391
VI. Nlr D      tn (Los)                     (512)   (1,680)   (2,617)      286         0
Awerp 1nbir of
Staff qalays                         11,923    12,053    12,210    11,266     9,865
E eD  4/                               NA.       NA.    6,D%        6,505     7,05
Ration
IIednlgbtio                             101       112       117        84        83
Ratio                         103       114       118        85        8,
-1 Prods1io for futue 'zu1oyint (mmire) pay'ts; fln cub ite.
Actual p~ayta to retirue, fumded  ntuy by tbe entity.
.Y Li view of tie Imp  198.3 opartir  profit, CLPJZ2   mtared In its acuita a
piWoidea  for fubxm Pmimt payimmt: of 0mS/ 1,555 udflIicn. Tte 1984 ffue
incla s a pmis' for futue psami pyinta amBmEing to OS$/1,514  flicm  md
other nw-operating  apmm  (previa  Yor).
1 Md Yaw figus; exdWar figur  are availmbl In hI'sc 3.
Awwt 1985



- 65 -
1I3IIA                                 AN=  2
P RHIr.tAN   1FEllff                            T>1e 2
(in Orwuit 0,. HLUkM.'-
1980     1981        1982       1983      1984_
ASSErS
COM        ASST
Cohb and Bo                         250        216        201        508       554
-t-r-      Irstmw                     6        293         39         19      1,771
ReJ.vLes  (topertions)             1,038     1.122        889      1,079     1,308
Otin bonivible                      150        118        170      .319       3i
Iwatod                              769        794        903       982      1,112
Ddfeaed AgMe                         10          7         24        139       231
TM  aIDREN ASSES                   2,223      2,550      2,226      3,046     5,365
FIM ASEI
Fort betaLlatLos & Equiumit       2,700      3,066      3,730     4,227      4,521
Traaspot Equpl   t                  296        335        369        379       217
less  (cmae   wmaLn             _782)      (95)   (1,121)   (1,31B)   (I 569)
9htota11                      2,214     2,451      2,978      3,288.    3,189
-L   & Ibrks in *op                  923      1,1         770        567        780
TOTAL FDE  AS1SE                   3,137     3,572      3,748     3,855      3,969
am D.SEt                             151        187       .170       219        52D
Wm.ASS                             5,511      6,309     6,144      7,120      9,854
agummu
Sor-tsm Book lows                   165        239        351       571        489
0vnt Portio Low-term Los            130        181        249       223        281
Pwables                             353        585        650       732        865
Sort-tem Provslsi Taip3oymot    646          1,009      1,241      1,268     1,0(4
Sh-tem Social Payunts               369        981      1,485      1,337     2,031
onpr                                281        525        750       798      1,067
WM  CJRBI LTAB  I=ES                1,944     3      ,520  4,726   4,929      577
lAng-term 1o                        822        852        861       890      1,164
Lxg-ta Povision t5 cployunt   2,848          3,327      3,903     2,740      2,743
tog-tr Social Paym   1s61                1  1.931       2,262     3,831 4,7
IYAL 1D-q( LICAiLlS                5,281      6,110      7,(26     7,461      8,784
OMM LIABTMDXM                        234        268        180       168        673
E1 lJ FM R   Eir S                    98        137        555       619        678
Paid-dn Capital                     606        606        606       606        606
Profit (Eons) zviom  yeas        (2,140)   (2,652)   (4,332)   (6,949)   (6,663)
Pmot (Low) of tiw   wr             (512)   (1,680)   (2,617)        286          0
MwraL E=                          (2,tA6)   (3,726)   (6,343)   (6,057)   (6,057)
TrAL LTABU: AID AM     =            5,511      6,309      6,146     7,120      9,854
Sourc 15B5RDS
XiwF 1985



COLOUIA                                   ANNEX 2
PORT REABILITATION PROJECT                          Table 3
COLpUERTOS' Actual Sources and AplI[cation of Funds
(in Current ColS mIIIIon)
191        1982        1993      1994
SOURCES
internal Source
Not Operating Inc.me                   (1t1,2)      (2,386)      2,240     2,6A1
Add: OforOcIatlon                         168          171         197       231
ProvIslon for UneaVloymsnt        1,304        1,649         360       99
Other ProVIsions                    319          749          78        59
Less: Unef mlOYent Paymnets               462          841       1,496     1,207
Total Internal Sources                   t 183)       ( 630)       1,379     2,709
Lang-Ter rr  orowings
Foreign Loans                             135         254          38         87
Lceal Loans                               _            _            _
Total Borrcwings                            135         254          318      597
Other
other Assets                              (36)         17       C  49)      (301)
Other Liabilities                          34          (88)     C   12)    1,551
Tosal Others                               _2)           71          (61)    1,251
ToTAL SOURCES AND FUNDS                       (50)      t 47)        1,636     4,547
_umu       amw._u      u ..u  _  u. _
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Caoital Expendrhures                        603         347          304       345
Long-Term Loan Repament
Foreign Loan Repayment                     54          177         315       213
Local Loan RePaYment                       -           -            -         42
Total PrfncIpal Repayment                    54          177         315       255
interest Payments CNot)                     129         259          399      250
Change 'n Working Capital Other Than
CaSh-Inerease (Decreae)                  (801)      (1,2151        311      (493)
Other                                        _           _                   2,391
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                    1 t6)    t 4323       1,329     2,748
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH                  t 34)     C   15)         307     1,799
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 1/                  250          216         201       527
CASH AT END OF YEAR                           216          201         508     2.326
1/ The 1984 figure Includes short-ter Invsstments.
Source: COLPUERTOS
August 1985



- 67 -
EIALI IA                                               ANNEX 2
WIr4NoZtl:.lTgTIII  p1:w                                      Tab le   4
Ism w1       31j  - Coa:s    c
a#ags'am a' uruaa tal 2tI&rat'
3": MI , U i1                                   1              11 1l
~~~~~~~~~................... .... ..... ...._.
I.Pawm 14itlae 8r1mr                                    12;b 1822                       3916             2113                          1911
2.11ng L"Ina AN     aLml'lks                            ce:e           33874           1289           144       10    la"             31336
Lileas swialt to Isaga                                    12             36              31              41               41              43
*.rn,na mum                                              632r IUI                        74 1112                         Sl              913
S.Cp rlsNaitia  It                                      "DO            12827,                  13428   3*413          13742            2193
*.lammot oft                                              lo              2               1               39             39               3t
i.fIuculd Ti,rl4lala lungSS                             1IIC             iTI            3101            1373            lay             3431
8.31kw                                                     e              8                e               S               S              4
9.1r-n fro twrlif II satit                                                 I               S             2 e3                          tau
fetid taer:q loam                                      2824t           20m96           33111112        38              46713           Sim
1.1irKt FuGueS Cuts
I.. arlaUj LI                                         2r7             as       I                      3MU              * i            7tH
.LSuua 8td
3.3.3.Wutla                                        a337            136"             ls35           22a5            29              253
3.L2.21.SaaIetretlm                                                                 in3             La"7            13              lIsm
teal vunt lilE                                      2348            21s             2no                2            3901            439
I*tilw taigt Primed rats                              4265St 1341432                                  ISM3            UR1            184
2.10dern  _m l Uds
Il.l.clrl Csa
L3.3.VaraIIle LIE                                    1167           31              273             3113             nil            4mt
2.3.2.PmueUa 31.f
LI.2.I.ataa                                        33t184         IOSI             15133          37              7.9            2331
LI.I.Lhiaasartatar                                  93f            low            3t4              42             1443            31
s!tute      P     dlmat  staff                       ml             2               2713            3n7             as1             *;U
.ek ksluttmt a   :sta         Mn                                      tagU            s:t:                           74n             mp
.. :.v'.q:.,w- .                                       114 ..LO12                      "a8            112     ;       1329           35"
*.Llemaara   :I                                        LP             ICU            1:2             3473.           176            2357
Sottmtl Iast'st I'wacn3l tcu                          1t               23              lSUPtl                                         21
Istow  Pwrmmi Emote               9443           33444~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10-39 334?tR             9             2611N
Liarw donai luwag
3.1.Ssateuwc  AM lewd  41                             13A            3918            27              335             SW              354
3.LfatrIletim  1 tea"                 s                 U              4              in3             at              373             269
Sitat! #lua  rbratas Tlf ml                                           3m              ICft26                         3US             413
IStd atrtial EWmia                                     318133134                       13a2           III7,           2271            Vms
t. Somracaataa                                           273            456             713            too3            1)18            am_
IstU u    rl  lnema                                    337             13m             .SW            21                19             3134
11S ElITE -X            LU IqSe                                                         44              4872223
III     b_ IV Prsl *1 -                                 P               3 on                           MP 7Dz J59C 
I wX r  n owm   eau                                        in                              962 q          134            3887            333
3. Catrajam is  mats, FoI                               110            Am1              IE              -              "of            3173111
L  M    tatM   t Ps tbeslce                              143            SPa             3917           2892           331              4
mIraut                                                  1241           71T        *       7           3482    I        3J             38
I C10 [mm  -L                                             2*17            47              160             12              SW              mill
w14m tear atW         I                                                f4              17                                             all
ua,mminra'                                             723617r 7127                                                    338is          en
TalC Prear. Trade                                       382            .911            a0a9            439"            43t4            6366
Is3:1                                          32              it46
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                           u1
Wt"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                           25 1            171Z"
_n_ ue   revenue  from  epty contaIner handling.
2/ Provision for future unseplovamat (uewranc.) payments; reflects annual Increa                       se  a  IlablIlty  for the add.tlonal
year of service, With the entity.
31 aincludee only the employere regular contribution to an independent Pension iRate. to fund future Pension
payMemte; COnrLfMut lone aikre a percentage of total coepefiaatioat payments received (direct p1us imndIreCL pVeronel
coste excluding medical expenases).
4I Includes sqatiment    inamaance. dredging (COLPIERTOS' *ea.re) end generAl adminlecracive.
SI Special coaatrlhution to independent penelon system to fund pension labUlitiea accrued up-to-date.
Al Adjuetnent to acmuelecped C past) unemployment liab ilities to be made when -salariee are increased.
Source: COLPEITOS end mission gstim tee
ItLoner 1941



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
COtOMBIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
COLPUERTOS, Balance Sheet Prolecctlon 1904-1990
(in Current CelS million)
ASSSTS                                                1985           1986           1987           1988           1989          1990
Current Asost.
Comb and Bankn 1/                                 1,857         3,541          9,467         17,742         26,673         37,04
Recelvableu fruo Operations                       2,030         2,649          3,129          3,663          4,471          5,470
Other RaceLvebles                                   236           '98            354            421            493            578
Inventorlec                                         785           193          1,179          1.403          1.644          1,927
Other Current AJnetn                                277           335            399            471            556            656
Total Current Assets                                5,185                       14,5Z8 Z3,75
Plxed Asets
Port In-tllatieons and Equipment                  4,914         6,666         10,352         13,049         15,239         19,162
Lees:  Accumulated Depreciation                ( 1,78Q)       ti,Jj}           4,699)       ( 3,468        t4,399)
Subtotal                                       3,13           4,545            63                                        3,0
Lend and Work la Progreso                         2,011         3,945          2,956          2 449          4 182         8 499
Total Fixed Ak_ate                                  5,145          8,490        10,609         IZ.            1$T 0t22 
Other Assets
Deferred Aeetn 2/                                   872         1,588          2,217          2,399          2,432         2.432
Less:  Aortation                               j      0 )                            ( 243)     517)      jfl3)          L 875)
Subtotal                                         8          - U                             1,8B2          1,696         1.55
TOTAL ASSTS                                          11,162         17,791        27,111         37,612         50,555         69.534
LUBILrS AND ROM
Mr- ~E-                                                            -               --G
Cursn t Pration long-T ru Loans (Exieting)          411           217            207            226            248            224
Curreot PortLon lAng-Term Loans (IBRD)               -             -              -             415            888            973
ftyable.                                            471           596            707            842            986          1,156
Short-Term ProvInaon Ibemploym.nt 3/               355            435            535            657            795         1,020
Short-Term Social Payomntu 4/                    1,016             -              -                             -            -
Other Current Liabilities 47                        533            -              -             -               -
Total Current -Liabilitles n                        Z78           1,248          1,449            142          2,917          3373
LongTo   Liablles-
-ft         Lw lo  3datiog)                        937            959            880            748            581           426
long-Term Leos  URD) I/                             108         2,063          4,412          7,176         8,671          9,537
Other TAng-r  Loans                                -              -              -              -            1,204         6,145
Lon-rm Provision Unemploymnt                     4,543          6.*96          8,862         11.819        15,555         20,255
Long-er  Social Payments 6/                      4 877          4 877          4 877          4 877         4 877          4 877
Total Long-erm Labilities                         t i19031z6 30                                           88                      20i
Other Liabilities                                     673           673            673            673            673            673
Provllon for Cantingencie.                           678           678            678            678            678            678
~tl
Paid-in-Capltal                                    606            606            606            606            606           606
Protlt (Leoa) Previous Years                    (6.663)        (4,046)           191          4,672         8,895         14,793
Proflt (lonn) of the Y                           2 617         46237           4483           4 221         5898           a171
Total Bui!z                                      Aje x-)            797         INw S 280-i-                 -;.  w
TaTmL LIiLlTTS AIMD EQUITY                           11,162        17.791         27,111         37,512         50,555        69,534
17  Includes obort-tern  invoteents.
ti Invest_nt ln taudlee (tebhnical eolietance).
eflects paymate to be made in the next fiscal year.
T/ Overdue personnel paymnts.
5T/   ay not agree wich accumulated disbursemnt. since figure L. balance eheet reflects the affect of devaluatin on balanc  of loan
I/  Includes mainly a proviaLon for future pensoo paymnts and other benefit..
Source: COLPUZRTOS and mlmson estletee.
October 1985



- 69 -                                    MINEX 2
Table 6
COLOIBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
COLPUERTOS' Sources and A    icatioe of Funds
Sln Current CoiBpmillion)
TOTAL
SOURCES                                       1985          1986           1987          1998           1989          1990          19851199
Intornal Sources
Mgt Operd1.ng Income                      8,929       12,556         14,442         16,407         20,812         26,538         99,64
Adds Dnpreclation and Amortizetion          271          404             719         1,043          1.150          1,099           4,663
Provi.oo for Unemployment                   654           792           944          1,122          1,334          1,590          6,436
lRA.: Unemployment Paymeet.                 283)     (   355)           4.5 43    5)       3S6SJ}                    795        I J060
Total Internal Sources n                    9
Lonu-'Iru 3TorreiueU
Proto.ed [BD Loan 1/                        103        1,758          1,988          2,640          1,205            950          8,64
Other Foreign Loa  2/                        -            -             -                           1,152          4,727           5,879
Local loam                                   --                   -                                   ---
Total Uorroings                              103                                     -               rAM
TOTAL SOURCSS OF muNDS                        9.674        15.155         17.657        20,677         24,996         34,109         122,266
APPLICAIONs O7 FUNDS
Cap ital Cxo-MdLturs
rh  Project                           1,309        4.402          3,326          2,372            473            -           11,82
Ofhtr - COLPUERIOS' 2/                      450          -              -              -            3.48           8.240         12 173
Total Capital IxZneditura                  J                   .0                                      *                            ia
loAg 4r-Loen Repayment.
orig   oan RepaymentC
IBrD                                       -            -              -              -              -                             u
Othbr                                     281          281            217            207            226            248          1,460
Local Loan oEpsymnt                         167           130            -              -              -              -             297
Total Princivel Rezyments-44                                411        --ITY          --ITv             22__
Xntereut PJsntr
Foregn Ilterert Paymant
IR1D                                       10           138           332            5J6            797            952          2,815
Other                                      99            93            81             75            124            413            335
Local lterest Payment                      106            56            -              -              -             -               62
Total Interest Parmenta                    --TIT                                      ---h ---                      -R3
--b E in gorklns Cooltl o ther Than
:ssh - Incr ^   fDecrease)                2,720        2,371            675            762          1,062          1,297          J.J6?
Co> irbutio to Y od0on  u r,00,                           6.000          7,100         8.4oo          9.9M          11.700         *8.100
TOTAL APPLICATIONS o0 FUNDS                  10.142        13,471         11,731         12.402         16.065        23.738          37.549
LRLS*U (DECREASE) IN CASH                      (468)        1.684          5,926         8,275          8,931         10,371         36,719
CASE AT BGZCIN=  OF YZAR  4/                  2.325         1,852          3,541         9,467         17.742         26.673          2.323
CAS AT END OF nuA                             1.857         3.541         9,467         17.742         26,673         37,04          37,044
L7  Intl Iamount of diubureaenta varies from Table 4.7tu- to the effect of devaluation or dLsbursements uMcb comes after cospleti.. of
works
2   Fgue  tn 1989 sod 1990 rofor to futwr  lnvetmonte in the port. (container terminal. and bulk haniag fteltites) tO be patlMy
finenced (foreign cost) wich exteral borrowingu. Projection aesm  a six-moutb delay in diebure mets.
3I Include., In 1985 end 1986, paymnt of overdue persoonnl expeness.
4/ Inchlue short-term investment.
Source: COLPUERTOS and mission estimates
October 1985



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix A
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A. General
1.        All financial figures in this report have been presented in current
prices and are based upon the following rates of inflation and devaluation:
Rate of Price               Rate of
Year           Increase (Percent)            Devaluation
1984                   18.3                      28
1985                   22                        35
1986                   20                        22
1987                   18                        12
1988                   18                         9.5
1989                   18                         9.5
1990                   18                         9.5
B, Traffic
2.        Cargo traffic inputs were based on figures provided in Tables 1
through 4 of Annex 1. Ship forecasts have been made based on the average
tonnage per ship of the first semester of 1984.
C. Tariffs
3.        The 1984 tariffs were used in projecting revenues by the main
revenue headings. Since some tariffs are denominated in local currency -
tariffs on exports -and others in-US dollars - tariffs on imports and tariffs
on international vessels- the latter were adjusted to reflect exchange rate
movements. During 1988, COLPUERTOS should revise the existing tariff
structure to have tariffs reflect the cost of services rendered. Since the
impact of this revision, both upon composition and upon level of revenues,
cannot be predicted at this time, tariffs have been adjusted only as
necessary to mainttin the average revenue per ton constant, in real terms, at
the 1984 level. These adjustments have been indicated as a global amount in
the revenue projections.
4.        The following exchange rates (mid-year) were used to express
tariffs denominated in US dollars, and in Col$ pesos, over the forecast
period: 1984 - Col$ 101.3 - US$1; 1985 - Col$ 133.82 - US$1; 1986 -
Col$ 170.67 - US$ 1; 1987 - Col$ 198.83 - USM1; 1988 - Col$ 200.09 - US$ 1;
1989 - Col$ 240.97 - US$1; and 1990 - Col$ 263.87 - US$ 1.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix A
Page 2
D. Revenues
5.        The following assumptions were used for calculating revenues under
the main revenue headings:
(a) Ships Maritime Services: based upon forecast number of ships
(available in project file) and present wharfage and harbor
tariffs;
(b) Ship Loading and Unloading: based upon projected import and export
traffic (weight-tons or volume-tons, as applicable) and the average
tariff (including overtime surcharges), for the first semester of
1984, for each commodity or group of commodities; and
(c) Cargo Handling: based upon projected import and export traffic
(weight-tons or volume tons, as applicable) and the average tariffs
(for each commodity or group of comodities) for the first semester
of 1984. This revenue heading groups charges for cargo-handling,
use of port facilities, storage, truck loading and unloading, port
police and empty container-handling.
E. Costs
6.        The total labor force was assumed to decrease by attrition
(forecast number of staff in Appendix B of this annex). Basic wage rates
(direct personnel costs) for variable staff (rates per ton) and for permanent
staff (fixed salary) were forecast to increase by 10% in 1985, as approved
by the Government, for all public entities, and by inflation thereafter. The
relationship between direct personnel costs and social costs was forecast to
remain constant at the 1984 level (first semester).
7.        Unemployment costs reflect the annual increase in the provision for
future severance payments. Colombian law makes it compulsory for employers
to establish a provision for payment of unemployment money to staff retired
or dismissed. This allowance, which is proportionate to the level of
remuneration and length of service, should reflect, at the end of each fiscal
year, the total accrued liabilities pertaining to this benefit. The annual
increase in this provisionis recorded in the accounts as follows: (a) the
adjustment for the additional year of service is charged to operational
expenses; and (b) the adjustment to the accumulated provision, to reflect
salary increases, is considered as non-operational expense.
8.        Pension costs have been divided into two portions: the first
represents the employers' contribution toward pensions with respect to the
service of the employee in a current year (charged to operating expenses),
and the second, a special contribution toward the accrued liability for
previous years - a charge to non-operating expenses. The first
portion-regular contributions-has been assumed to be 12% of total
compensation payments (direct personnel expenses plus social costs, excluding



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix A
Page 3
medical expenses). The second portion - special "make-up" contribution - is
a fixed amount determined from the 1985 forecast cash flow.
9.        Maintenance and general expenses include: (a) general
administrative expenses which are based upon the actual 1984 costs (first
semester) and have been assumed to increase by inflation; (b) equipment
maintenance costs based upon regular maintenance of existing and new
equipment; and (c) maintenance dredging costs, based upon cost of dredging
contracted by HOPT in 1984. The forecast includes only COLPUERTOS' proposed
share of these costs (port basins and alongside quays under its
jurisdiction). In the case of Buenaventura, COLPUERTOS' share was assumed to
be 30X of total maintenace dredging costs in the area; in the case of
Barranquilla, COLPUERTOS' share was assumed to be 20%.
10.       Interest on loans corresponds to actual interest payable by
COLPUERTOS on obtained, and still outstanding, loans and a forecast of
interest payable on the loan to be obtained from the Bank. The terms of
borrowing from the World Bank were assumed to be 17 years, with four years of
grace. Although the loan wduld be at the standard variable rate, the current
rate (8.82% p.a.) was used for purposes of financial forecasting.
II.       Depreciation of existing fixed assets (as of 1984) was calculated
based upon the historical value of these assets. By the end of 1986,
according to the action plan, COLPUERTOS will have revalued its fixed assets
in use and will institute a more realistic depreciation. This effect has not
been included in the forecast. Depreciation on new investment is based upon
straight line amortization and useful lives of 20 years for port
installations and 10 years for equipment.
F. Main Balance Sheet Items
12.       Accounts receivable were forecast to be 10% of operating revenues.
13.       Inventories were forecast to be 50% of general and maintenance
expenses.
14.       Accounts payable were forecast to be 30% of general and maintenance
expenses.
15.        Provision for unemployment (severance) reflects the total accrued
liability as of the end of each fiscal year (unfunded provision) and is based
upon the total number of staff employed, the last year's salary and the
length of service with the entity. The amount shown tinder short-term
liabilities reflects payments to be made in the next fiscal year based upon
projected retirements.
16.       Short-term social payments reflect overdue personnel costs and were
forecast to be paid during 1985 and 1986.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix B
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
COLPUERTOS' Staff and Pensioners
1.        COLPUERTOS' actual number of staff for the period 1981-1984 and
targets to be met during 1985-1990 are shown in Table 1 of this appendix.
Although total staff decreased from 12,237 at end-1982 to 9,436 at end-1984 -
23% - COLPUERTOS is still overstaffed in almost all areas. By the end of
1987, according to the action plan, COLPUERTOS will have carried out a study
for the rationalization of staff which should determine the optimal size of
the plant of personnel, taking into account operational requirements and
traffic forecasts. In the meanwhile, until the recommendations of the study
are available and implemented, COLPUERTOS would continue making staff
reductions In the course of the retirement program. These reductions would
be possible because of efficiency gains to be achieved under the project.
The targets developed for the period 1985-1990, based upon reductions by
attrition, would need to be revised in light of the results of the staffing
study. It should also be noted that the forecast number of retirements is
based upon the years of service of the employees with COLPUERTOS only since
information on years worked in other entities before joining COLPUERTOS was
not available. The number of retirements in each year would therefore most
likely be higher than that assumed in the forecast.
2.        Table 2 of this appendix shows COLPUERTOS' actual and forecast
number of pensioners. Based on the existing retirement program, by end-1990,
COLPUERTOS' number of pensioners will exceed the total number of staff
employed.
3.   The figures shown in Tables 1 and 2 of this appendix were used for the
purposes of financial forecasting and discussions with COLPUERTOS.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
APPENDIX B
Table 1
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
COLPUERTOS' Number of Staff
(1981-1984, actual; 1985-1990, forecast)
Barranquilla Buenaventura Cartagena Sta. Marta Central
Office 1/    Total
end-year figures
1981         2,458        3,954       2,798        2,167        806       12,183
1982         2,452        4,052       2,756        2,113        860       12,237
1983         2,141        3,254       2,313        1,910        676       10,294
1984         1,971        2,964       2,183        1,713        605        9,436
1985         1,942        2,823       2,174        1,677        593        9,209
1986         1,898        2,766       2,165        1,599        579        9,007
1987         1,854        2,709       2,156        1,521        565        8,805
1988         1,810        2,652       2,147        1,443        551        8,603
1989         1,766        2,595       2,138        1,365        537        8,401
1990         1,724        2,540       2,127        1,289        522        8,202
Staff Reductions 2/
(1985-1990)
Total          247          424           56         424         83          1,234
Average p.a.    41           71            9          71         13            205
Staff Composition(Z)31
(1985-1990)
Variable        54%          50%          48%         58%        -          49Z
Permanent Oper. 33%          35%          31%         24%        43%         32Z
Permanent Ad.   13%          15%          21%         18%        57%         19%
1/ Includes the small port of Tumaco and the dredging office Bocas de Ceniza.
2/ Assumes reduction by attrition only.
3/ Staff composition used in financial forecasts; changes may occur due to
reassignment.
Source: COLPUERTOS and Mission Estimate
August 1985



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
APPENDIX B
Table 2
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
COLPUERTOS' Number of Pensioners
(1981-1984, actual; 1985-1990, forecast)
Barranquilla Buenaventura Cartagena   Sta. Marta   Central
Office      Total
- - - -end-year figures -
1981       N.A.         N.A.         N.A.         N.A.        N.A.        6,166
1982       2,310        1,745        1,470         546         175        6,246
1983       2,380        1,995        1,568         617         204        6,764
1984       2,224        2,239        1,634         737         412        7,246
1985       2,253        2,380        1,643          773        424        7,473
1986       2,297        2,437        1,652         851         438        7,675
1987       2,341        2,494        1,661         929         452        7,877
1988       2,385        2,551        1,670       1,007         466        8,079
1989       2,429        2,608        1,679       1,085         480        8,281
1990       2,471        2,663        1,690       1,161         495        8,480
Source: COLPUERTOS and Mission Estimates
August 1985



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Financial
Technlcal Assistance
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The technical assistance In this area will focus upon a review of
the accounting systems, setting up cost accounting and establishing the
tariff structure, with a view toward making the necessary procedural changes
in order to obtain prompt and reliable Information for decision-making. The
consultants will introduce appropriate Innovations, including latest
technlques In finance and systems, and will implement the recomendations
agreed upon by the consultants and COLPUERTOS for promptly obtaining the
information needed for efficient management. The studies referred to
herewith would be carried out within the context of an integrated information
system already defined by COLPUERTOS and would thus take into account their
interrelation with systems presently in operation (i.e., personnel,
billing). In this respect, the consultants would also propose, as
appropriate, modlfications to existlng systems for purposes of coapatibility.
II. SCOPE OF THE CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General Accounting
2.        Work in this field will comprise review of-the accounting system,
both In terms of procedures and of the administrative organization of the
department, preparation of manuals, identification of methods for
revalujation of fled assets, training of staff and implementation of
recouendatlons.
B. Cost Accounting
3.        Consulting services in this field will consist of designing a cost
accounting system that will make possible the identification of the costs of
the various services. The system should allow management to evaluate
performance of the various operations and should also provide a base for
periodic tariff reviews. Preparation of manuals, staff training and
implementation of recommendations will also be included in the consultants'
assignment.
C. Tariff Structures
4.        Work in this field will consist of formulating a methodology for
setting tariffs, taking into account the- cost of the services. The
consultants will also prepare manuals, train the staff and implement their
reco nendations.



- 77 -                   ANNEX 2
Appendix C
D. Financial Planning
5.        In this area, the consulting services will consist of defining
functions and methodological design of analyses to be performed by
COLPUERTOS' Financial Planning Unit, with a view toward formulatlng,
regularly, a comprehensive financial plan, resulting from the combined Impact
of budgeted operations, proposed capital investments, debt service, financing
sources, etc.
E. Fixed Assets and Inventory Control
6.        Work in this field will Include review of classificatlon methods,
basis of valuation and depreciation, accounting records and procurement and
bidding systems for COLPUERTOS' fixed asoets and Inventories. The
consultant will prepare the necessary manuals, train the staff and implement
recomuendations.
F. Budgeting
7.        The consultants will review the methodology used for preparing the
budget and the pertinent manuals in order to have this function Include
budgeting by item or account and by responsibllity center, cash flow budget,
investment and procurement budget and the mechanisms to control the execution
of the various budgets. Preparation of manuals, staff training and
implementation of recommendations will also be part of the consultants' work
in this field.



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix D
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the
Upgrading of Managoment Information Systems
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The purpose of this technical assistance will be to help COLPUERTOS
upgrade its management information systems so that they will provide accurate
key performance data, such as cargo handling rates, equipment utilizatlon,
ship waiting and turnaround time, berth occupancy and import/export, coastal
and river traffic statistics by port and product, covering the entire range
of COLPUERTOS' operatlons.
II. SCOPE OF THE CONSULTING SERVICES
2.        The consultants' assignment will consist of reviewing existing
management information systems, suggesting needed changes, making adjustments
as and when required, and obtaining the decision-making data needed to chart
the future development of COLPUERTOS' operations. The consultants shall pay
special attention to the present level of mechanization and make full ise of
the available computer equipment. The consulting services shall, therefore,
include the modification of existing, and the design and installaton of new,
computer applications in the fields or areas covered by the terms of
reference. The consultants shall, if necessary, also make specific
recommendations concerning additional computer equipment compa,._ble with the
existing facilities.
3.        In performing their assignment, the consultants shall consider the
statistical and operating data needs of:
(a) each of the ports and the Head Office in Bogota, bearing in mind
the long-term decentralization plans to delegate responsibilities
to the ports; and
(b) the planning, financial, technical and operational areas, among
others, in order to facilitate: (1) appropriate planning of the
future development of the ports system; (II) appropriate
interpretation of current financial results and future financial
planning; (iii) efficient programing of equipment and spare parts
maintenance and contracting of civil works; and (iv) continuous
upgrading of the land and maritime services provided by COLPUERTOS.
4.        The consulting services shall include:
(a) implementation of the recommendations, subject to prior approval by
COLPUERTOS;
(b) training of staff In the new procedures for operating the upgraded
management information systems; and
(c) preparation of instruction manuals describing the operation of the
systems and detailed procedures.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Labor and Equipment Situation and Productivity Targets
A. Past and Present Labor Situation
1.        COLPUERTOS was established in 1975 as a state-owned commercial and
industrial enterprise, with financial and administrative autonomy, under the
tutelage of MOPT. The Bogota office is responsible for the planning and
control of national port development, including the implementation of
investment programs. The terminals are responsible for the day-to-day
planning and control of port operations. Allocation of responsibilities is
based upon Law 1174 of 1980, but, in the past, COLPUERTOS headquarters has
actively interfered in the operations of the terminals and has failed to
fulfill its planning functions. Lack of qualified professional staff,
coupled with highly politicized management, led the enterprise to
inefficiency, overstaffing znd corruption, resulting in continued operational
losses, neglected maintenance and inability to provide all ports with full
port services.
2.        Labor union conquests over the years have gone so far that they
have badly damaged COLPUERTOS. There are six labor unions, three at
Barranquilla and one at each of the other ports. Until very recently, the
unions had taken over control of equipment and labor assignment, as well as
the interpretation of labor agreements with regard to payments.  A clear
example of the seriousness of this situation was the system used by
COLPUERTOS to pay its workers, applying the same rate per ton for every ton
of cargo handled irrespective of the type of cargo and handling method or
s,stem used. Container and direct deliv-ry bulk-handling operations at
Buenaventura, for example, were responsi;le for about 401 of the losses
incurred at that port during 1981. In fact, while revenues increased by 35%
from 1980 to 1982, working expenses increased by 55% over the same period,
representing 92%, 100% and 103% of total revenues.
3.        Due, in part, to the Bank's involvement in the port subsector in
the role of Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed Ports Modernization Study
aimed at the containerization of Colombian ports, some progress was made by
the previous administration during the !982 labor negotiations when:
(a) payments to workers for container and bulk handling were frozen for four
years (1982-1985) at the 1982 rate; and (b) payments for bulk direct delivery
operations were reduced by 40% and frozen for the same four-year period.
These changes were, however, insufficient to justify major investments for
port development, and the new administration that entered the Government in
August 1982 decided to seriously tackle the problems affecting CCI,PUERTOS and
to limit the 1984-1988 investment plan to rehabilitating existing port
facilities and equipment.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
4.        In October 1982, at the new Government's request, the Bank and UNDP
organized a technical assistance mission, consisting of four independent
experts, to identify institutional and labor constraints affecting the port
system and to prepare a short- and medium-term plan of action that included,
among others, the following aspects: disposal of abandoned cargo and scrap
material; equipment repair and spare parts; implementation of a freeze on
hiring personnel (which had been adopted, but not implemented, by the
previous administration); operational planning and coordination; and
rationalization of labor assignment to return this responsibility to the
operations departments at the ports.
5.        COLPUERTOS' management responded to these recommendations by
adopting a number of corrective measures, most of which have been
implemented, and, at the same time, with the full support of the Government,
adopted a strong position during the labor agreement negotiations in 1983.
Following a strike (July-August 1983) that was declared illegal by the
Ministry of Labor, COLPUERTOS was able to change the pattern of previous
negotiations and obtained some important changes to labor agreements as
follows: Buenaventura: (a) changes and reduction of payments for
sick leave, seventh day and holiday; (b) establishment of special low rates
for direct delivery bulk handling; (c) reduction of payments for container
handling operations (although still on a by-the-ton basis); (d) freeze in
rates for bulk cargo through silos; and (e) elimination of standby
(supernumerarios) workers' category used during peak hours. Atlantic Ports:
(a) elimination of payments for direct delivery of bulk if port labor is not
used and establishment of a compensatory payment to displaced workers;
(b) reduction to selected container handling payments; (c) reduction to
payments for sick leave; and (d) establishment of maximum number of
stevedores and windmen.
6.        The corrective measures undertaken by COLPUERTOS' uanagement,
together with the impact of changes to labor agreements and the reduction of
personnel by attrition and voluntary reLirements and resignations, have had a
serious and important impact upon the financial situation nf the enterprise,
changing the nearly endemic operating losses of the 1979-1982 period into
operational surplus for the first time in 1983.
7.        COLPUERTOS' management is seeking additional changes under the
ongoing negotiations, adopting a strong but conciliatory attitude toward the
labor unions. A strategy that may render extremely important gains,
consisting of ensuring employment to its workers, thus limiting reduction of
personnel to attrition and voluntary premature retirement or resignation, has
been adopted by the management. However, workers would have to agree, in
principle, to: (a) change the pension benefits of personnel who joined
COLPUERTOS within the last two to three years, to be in line with those
established by the Social Securit- Law; and (b) contribute to their pensions
on a percentage basis, when and if a new pension system is developed.
8.        COLPUERTOS and the Government, during appraisal, expressed their
commitment to establish a new pension system; although an early workers'
agreement would, undoubtedly, prevent de.ays, such commitment would have to
be formalized. Based upon the preceding, the proposed project includes



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
provisions to ensure COLPUERTOS and the Government's commitment to the
establishment of a new pension system; COLPUERTOS has already retained
actuaries to determine its pension requirements (Annex 2).
9.        In addition, COLPUERTOS and the Government expressed their
agreement to commit themselves to continuing their efforts to rationalize
payments to workers, relating payments to productivity during future labor
agreements. This commitment would be reflected in a letter of representation
which stipulate the targets to be sought by COLPUERTOS during future labor
negotiations as follows:
(a) rationalization of gang sizes in accordance with operational
requirements and cargo handling systems used; and
(b) modification to payment systems for container operations from
by-the-ton to by-the-container basis.
Since containerization is now being introduced, the principle of 24-hour
working should also be addressed.
B. Equipment Requirements
10.       Equipment requirements for the project ports were determined
jointly by COLPUERTOS and the Bank. The methodology developed by COLPUERTOS
was reviewed and found satisfactory by the appraisal mission: it is based
upon operational analyses and actual and expected productivity. Total
equipment requirements were determined based upon traffic forecasts, physical
condition and expected useful life of COLPUERrOS' existing plant of equipment
and the availability of privately owned equipment. Existing COLPUERTOS' and
privately owned light cargo-handling equipment (namely forklifts and tractors
for general cargo) is sufficient to cope with traffic growth up to 1988;
private equipment is used because of the shortage of COLPUERTOS' light cargo-
handling equipment due to poor maintenance.   However, until recently, port
users incurred a double payment because they had to pay full tariffs to
COLPUERTOS for less-than-full services and, in addition, had to cover the
costs of private equipment.    This situation encouraged COLPUERTOS'
inefficiency because the enterprise collected revenues for services not
provided, and equipment operators were paid even when they did not
participate in the provieion of services. Present management has undertaken
a plan to rehabilitate light equipment which is only five years old and is
out of service for lack of spare parts. During 1984, the enterprise procured
about US$0.8 million of spare parts, and the rehabilitation plan is already
under way; it is expected to reduce, but not eliminate, the participation of
private equipment.
11.       To eliminate the double payment incurred by the users, COLPUERTOS
COLPUERTOS has changed its operational procedures and it is currently paying
for the rent of private light cargo handling equipment to private equipment
rental companies and will reimbu-se under special circumstances the users for
the corresponding costs if they rent it directly. To discourage
inefficiency, COLPUERTOS has also changed its operating regulations
eliminating payments to operators who do not participate in the provision of
services when private equipment is used. When some of the existing equipment



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
either COLPUERTOS' or privately owned, reaches the end of its economic life,
it would be necessary to replace it.
12.       An analysis prepared during appraisal shows that new operating
costs of light equipment provided by 0OLPUERTOS would bring about
considerably nigher results than if some equipment were provided by private
rental companies. Under these circumstances, COLPUERTOS should abstain from
acquiring additional light equipment and allow rental companies to provide
it, unless the enterprise is able to reduce its operating costs to levels
comparable with those obtained in the private sector. This matter was
discussed and agreed by COLPUERTOS and the Government during negotiations.
13.       The project will finance heavy cargo handling equipment and
container handling equipment. The former would replace COLPUERTOS' equipment
that is 15 to 25 years old, that cannot be economically repaired and that
would be scrapped durin the period of project implementation; besides,
additional units would be provided to cope with traffic growth. The table
below shows the year of acquisition of existing equipment and identifies the
units to be replaced.
Yr. of Acquisition   Proposed Equipment
1962   1970  1979  Replacement  Additional
15,000-lb forklift trucks        -      15     24       15             9
16-ton mobile cranes             -       9     10        9            -
30-ton mobile cranes 1/           1      2      -        3             1
I/  These cranes will be replaced with 40-ton capacity ones.
The replacement and provision of heavy cargo handling equipment will avoid
cargo damage and truck/wagon and ship delays by handling cargoes weighing
between 5 and 40 tons more efficiently. The container handling equipment
will supplement existing COLPUERTOS' and privately owned equipment and will
provide the necessary capacity as traffic increases. Some of COLPUERTOS'
existing equipment is 25 years old (45,000-lb. forklift trucks) and has
already been replaced by privately owned equipment. The project will include
yard tractors and trailers and will establish their use as a regular feature
of container operations at all the project ports to achieve improved
productivity.
14.       Cargo handling equipment requirements were determined using all
information, data and results of methodology described above. The process
can be shown schematically as follows:



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Traffic projections                     Type of cargo
LjjIjj_c_in_                   _   - |(packing-commodity)
| Gneral car go traffic
to be handled
| Operational data   |--                 Cargo weight
Distance of movement
Availability of    -  -                 ulation model1
equipment
Total Equipment
Requirements
Equipment available           |        Privately owned
Iequipment available
Equipment to be
rehabilitated
Proposed List of Equipmentj
The equipment to be procured would cover the current shortages of equipment
and additional equipment to cope with traffic increases up to 1991. The
proposed list of equipment that would be included in the project is given in
Table 3.2.
C. Port Productivity and Productivity Targets
15.       To measure the productivity of the project ports, port statistics
were analyzed and compared with those of other ports. The following
performance indicators were used: (a) Berth Performance Index (BPI), average
rate based upon total time ships occupy berths; (b) Cargo Performance Index
(CPI), average rate based upon net time ships are engaged in loading and
discharging cargo; and (c) Gang Performance Index (GPI), average rate based



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
upon CPI and the average number of ships hatches worked simultaneously per
ship; this index is expressed in terms of con/gang/hour. It was obtained
directly for Colombian ports based upon actual average hatches worked at the
project ports.
16.       The comparison of performance indicators precludes adjustments for
bringing all ports into an absolute common basis since there may be disparity
in port working hours, size of shipments, weather conditions, etc. To
isolate the effect of these factors, a Cargo/Berth (C/B) ratio was determined
which measures time actually spent in loading and discharging ships as a
proportion to total time that ships occupy berths.
17.       Table 1 of this annex shows the comparison of performance
indicators and ratios of the project ports with other ports of similar size
and volume of traffic handled and with the average for a sample of 220 ports
of the world. The analysis of this table leads to the following conclusions:
(a) Cargo performance (CPI) at the project ports is generally in
line with that of other ports; this indicates that, despite
the bad condition of existing facilities, port workers are
able to handle cargo at reasonable rates; the gang
productivity also reflects the effect of covering the ports'
equipment shortage with equipment provided by the users. The
effect of improved port facilities and availability of
equipment to be provided under the proposed project leaves a
margin of improvement to gang productivity; and
(b) the comparison of C/B ratios indicates that idle time of ships
alongside berths in the project ports is considerably larger
than it is in other ports. While, in the case of the
Colombian ports, ships are idle for about 60-70Z of the total
time that they occupy berths, the average for 220 ports is
only 30%. This indication reflects, among other things, a
lack of oort operations planning, unsatisfactory labor working
time controls, poor equipment maintenance services, inadequate
port traffic organization and signalization, and inappropriate
preparation of cargo/storage areas. The proposed technical
assistance component to improve port operations, followed by
the implementation of adequate administrative corrective
measures to be identified through this assistance, would
assist the ports in alleviating these problems and,
consequently, would improve productivity and performance. An
outline of this technical assistance is given in Appendix A to
this annex, and draft terms of reference are in the Project
File.
18.      The main causes for the low productivity at the project ports may
be sumnarized as follows:
(a) restrictions imposed upon the use of heavy cargo handling
equipment alongside quays due to the degree of deterioration.
This applies to Buenaventura and Santa Marta;



- 85 -
ANNEX 3
(b) narrowness of quay aprons. At Buenaventura, this problem in
affecting quays 2 to 6 since a semi-fixed pipeline alongside
these quays are narrowing the apron and obstructing loading/
discharging operations. At Cartagena, finger piers 1 and 2
have narrow aprons 8 to 10 a wide;
(c) restricted access to quays and storage areas. Thls applies to
quays 2, 9 and 10 at Buenaventura and quay numbor 1 at Santa
Marta, where access is restricted because of nettlp-nnts of
backfill. At Buenaventura, the access road to, epen storage
areas behind quays 2 to 8 is neither paved a_c L,aed;
(d) poor maintenance services. This problem causes interruptions
to port operations as a result of continuous failures of
equipment assigned to work;
(e) shortage of container-handling equipment. Although some of
this shortage is alleviated by equipment provided by port
users, they give preference to their own vessels, and the
others have to wait;
(f) shortage of equipment to handle heavy cargo (over 15 tons). At
all the project ports, this problem causes damage to cargo
by necessitating the use of several forklift trucks to
mobilize it; also,delays occur in receiving/dispatching heavy
cargo becuuse the user has to hire 16-to-40-ton capacity
cranes wherever these can be found (Medellin, Cali and
sometimes Bogota);
(g) poor method of handling overall port operations. Operations
at all project ports are carried out following the traditional
daily meetings to define berth, labur and equipment to be
assigned to each vessel. These meetings are attended by the
agents, each one looking after his own ship, and the head of
port operations. All ships are served on the basis of
first-come/first-served. No overall planning exists nor do
regulations concerning the admittance of trucks to
deliver/receive shipments, coordination with railway services,
delivery and reception of cargo, container storage and
inspection and internal port traffic and signalization. This
lack of planning applies to the absence of specific provisions
to better serve full-container vessels, such as the
introduction of the principle of 24-hour working. The ports
lack an operational analysis unit to monitor and analyze port
operations and resources used for mobilizing the various types
of cargoes; statistical Information is voluminous and
complicated, and most of it is rarely used at port level or at
headquarters level for improving productivity or/for medium-
and long-term planning. Port documentation is complicated and
obsolete; and
(h) Inefficiency of all the project ports' maritime services. This
inefficiency results from, among other things, the lack of
maintenance of the existing tugboat fleet.



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
19.       Specific investments/actions that would be included in the proposed
project to improve productivity and efficiency are as follows:
(a)  rehabilitation of existing facilities would reduce and
eliminate restrictions described in paragraph 18(a) to (c);
(b) the equipment component of the proposed project would
eliminate shortage of port equipment, including general cargo
and container-handling equipment and tugboats as described in
paragraphs 18(e), (f) and (h);
(c)  the technical assistance, training and workshop equipment
included in the proposed project would eliminate deficiencies
of port maintenance services at all project ports, as
described in paragraph 18(d), and
(d) improvements for servicing full-container vessels by the
introduction of the principle of 24-hour working would be
addressed by COLPUERTOS during future labor negotiations
(para 9 of this annex) and have therefore been partially
considered in the determination of productivity targets.
20.       Based upon a detailed analysis of current port operations, specific
efficiency indicators have been prepared for general cargo and containers, in
terms of ton/gang/hour (GPI), and ton/ship/day (BPI); the latter also
includes dry bulk. The proposed project would not include investments to
improve bulk-handling systems, but productivity rates for this type of cargo,
through the actions/investments mentioned in paragraph 19, would improve the
C/B ratio. Port efficiency indicators' data and analyses are in the Project
File.
21.       Table 2 of this annex swmmarizes the results of productivity
andlyses translated into productivity targets by main commodity groups and by
port.
22.       These productivity targets would have to be reviewed early in 1988,
and refined by COLPUERTOS with the assistance of the consultants to be
retained to improve port operations. The increase in terms of ton/gang/hour
is reasonably modest because port workers are able to handle cargo at
acceptably good rates; the average increase of about 19% is considered
acceptable. The area in which there is more room for improvement is the
increase of effective working hours, and it should have a favorable impact
upon operating costs.
April 1985



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA                           Table I
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Comparison of Operational Efficiency of Colombian Porte with Other Ports
Port              Annual Throughput                Cargo-Handling Rate
(000 tons)                     (ton/ship/hour)
BP I 1/  CPI 2(1/2)3/
(1)      (2)      (3)
General Cargo
Buenaventura                        990                 22.5       61.3    .36
Cartagena                           830                 27.8       71.1    .39
Recife (Brazil)                     780                 27.5       55.2    .50
Veracruz (Mexi'o)                 1,040                 20.1       43.5    .46
Valencia (Spain)                  1,010                 12.3       27.7    .44
La Guajira (Vener,uela)             642                330.9      419.1    .79
Barranquilla                        380                 14.7       49.8    .29
Santa Marta                         330                 17.4       49.5    .35
San Diego (USA)                     319                433.7      453.4    .95
Mazatlan (Mexico)                    140                15.5       44.9    .34
Townsville (Auatralia)               197                38.0       82.4    .46
Kiel (Germany)                       101                61.2       67.4    .91
Average 220 Ports                   N.A.                25.9       37.7    .69
Dry Bulk
Buenaventura                        978                 46.2      124.8    .37
Barranquilla                        201                 26.4       93.5    .28
Cartagena                           164                 39.8       71.8    .55
Santa Marta                          50                 34.2       80.3    .42
Progreso (Mexico)                   262                 32.8       70.1    .47
La Guaira (Venezuela)               469                 37.9       38.6    .98
Maracaibo (Venezuela)                551                99.4      128.4    .78
San Diego (USA)                     908                235.8      242.7    .97
Palm Beach  (USA)                    797               124.4      186.5    .66
Average 220 Ports                   N.A.               100.6      122.8    .82
1/  Average rate cargo moves between ship and shore based upon the total time
ships occupy berths, measured in tons/hour.
2/ Similar to BPI, but based upon the net time ships are engaged in loading
and unloading, measured in tons/hour.
3/ C/B ratio time actually spent in loading and discharching ships as a
proportion of total time that ships occupied berths;
Source: Port Performance Index - 1984
April 1985



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Mt   3
Productivity Ta!rptu                                          2-
Pirt            C-IlTon/GanAbn  2/                Tor/Shlp/Dm  3/
I P                         IOActual    1987   1989   19 91              Acttal   1987   1989    1991
-,siiaventtj  I  (1984)
1 1 8~~ 1           ra                  I                                        I
I    Ta=gHm           Ipnm           18        19      21     22      1    590      640    890   1,040
I    (b) Misell]ams         I        11        12      12      13     1    350      440    530    620
I                           I                                         I
I    'bntafner 4/           1         6         7      8       8      1    106      130    162      192
Dry B,X               I        42        45      47      50     1  1,470    1,780   2,090   2,400
~~1- II
I    Tai-mwemn              1        14        15      16     17           510      600    690    780
I    (b)Miacelarm           I        11        11      12     13      1    410      480    550    620
I                           1                                         I
I    (xtainez 4/            1         6         7       8      8      1    106      130    162    192
Dry &ilk              1        36        38      40      43     1    950    1,010   1,080   1,140
Barranq~uillaII
_                          I e
I    (a)  a      o          1        12        13      14     15      1    350      430    510    590
I    (b)  1SellAMo1         1        11        12      12      13     1    300      370    440      510
I                           I                                         1
I    imbntas 4/             1         4         5       6       6     1      58      63      68      72
j Dry Bak              1       31        33      35      36     1    630       740    860    980
I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
Samta Hmta
I      i)                   I        19        21      22     23      1    590      700    810    920
I    (b) Mlsclaxws          1        13        14      15      15     1    390      460    540    610
I    Ontane     4/          1         4         5       6      6      1      58      63      68      72
Y &dkl                         27        28      30      32           830     930   1,040  1,150
1/ Weited awerqe - Iqmort/exports
/ Bel san net tiur ships are ergage in loading ar unloading operatloiu.
3/ Basl on to   timne ships oop b1rths.
4/ Pooductivity epmeow  In TEJ
S:  : 1983 Eqipxnt Rqursirnts - WI.9ERLS
Apr1 1985



- 89 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix A
COLOMIA
FORTS   RAEBILLTATION PROECT
:~zline Of TechnicalAssligtance for Improvement of Port Operations
The cost of these consulting Services to Improve port operations
will be financed by COLpuFRTOs, supplemented by funds from the loan under
negotiation with the World Bank.
It is CoLpUERTos' intention that the technical assistance to which
these te%u8 of reference relate shall be eminently practical. This will
require the consultant8 to WOrk, In all cases, in close collaboration with
the chiefS of oPeratiOns of the ports and the pertinent supervisory
personnel-  Terminal managers will be directly responsible for taking the
neceseary measures to ensure that the recomendations, regulatlons, etc.
prePared by the consultants are implemented In a manner to accomplish the
Purpoaes described in the following paragraphs. Managers will have to secure
the PartiCipation of users and other entities (railways, truckers, etc.)
whenever necessary.
The port Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for
coordInating the vork of the Port operations consultants with that of the
cofusLihants developing the management information and cost accounting systems
and helping the POtts to reorganize their maintenance services.
ObEi e iveBl
The objectives of the technical assistance for improvement of port
operations are to: (a) increase the operational productlvity of the ports;
(b) rationalize the utilization of the available physical and human
resources; (c) coordinate the port services with users' needs and land
transportation services; (d) define, simplify and implement general axd
container cargo control systems; te) define and implement cost centers for
each service; (f) sigplify cargo reception and delivery procedures; and
(g) Coordinate port activities with Customs procedures.
Scope of the work
To accomplish the foregoing objectives, the consultants' services
have been divided into the following phases:
Phase 1: (a) analysis of present and future traffic composition,
cargohandling sYstems and controls; (b) analysis of the operations'
organuzatiOn of the port, includiOg physical and human resources;
(c) identification of imUediats measures to improve present operations; and
(d) Prepa8rtion of an iftediate plan of action to implement those measures.
This Phase is expected to last gigC weeks.



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix A
Phase 2: (a) Implementation of the Phase 1 plan of action;
(b) preparation of a plan for the rationalizing of operationa' personnel;
(c) preparation of port operations regulations; (d) analysis of the viability
of concessioning selected port servlces; (t) development and lmplementatlon
of simplified port statistics; (f) simplification of port documentatlon;
(g) development of port operations planning; and (h) review of productivity
targets and monitoring systems.
The duration of this phase is estimated at four months. Upon Its
completion, the consultants shall present a report covering, among other
points:
(a) the results of the action plan; and
(b) operations manpower rationalization plan.
Phase 3: Implementation of Phase 2. The duration is estimated at 10
months, at the end of which the consu'tant shall present a Draft Final Report
for COLPUERTOS and Bank review, followed by a Final Report incorporating the
corresponding comments.
Phase 4: Six months after completing Phase 2, assessment of the
additional recommendations for further improvement. This phase is estimated
at one month, and, upon its completion, the consultants shall present an
evaluation report.



_ 91 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix B,
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline of Technical Assistance for Reorganization of Repair and
Maintenance Serv_ces
Oblectives
1.        The objectlves of the technical assistance to Improve repair and
maintenance services are to: (a) organize an equipment management system;
(b) ensure the availability and efficiency of port equipment, existing and
new, to be procured under the Ports Rehabilitation Project; and (c) establish
policies for replacement of equipment.
Scope of the Work
2.        The consultants' services to assist COLPUERTOS in the
reorganization of the maintenance services at the project porte will be
d:'.vided Into four phases, to enable the ports to undertake immedlate
corrective measures, develop an organization and operating methods and
controls, and, in the short-term, assess the results. These phases will
include, but not exclusively:
Phase 1: (a) a diagnosis of the existlng organization; (b) an
assessment of maintenance staff qualifications; (c) an assessment of physical
facilities and resources; (d) a cri' cal analysis of current maintenance
preparation of an action plan for .eir implementation; and (f) an analysis
of maintenance and repair requireG.ents In the light of physical conditions of
existing plant of equipment and programed acquisition of additional units.
This phase is estimated to lasL about six weeks.
Phase 2:  (a) implemeri -ition of the Phase I plan of action; (b) the
design of a suitable orgar zation of the services, including specific
functions and responalbil les of all staff concerned; (c) preparation of
manuals for prevencive a.  tenance and mobile maintenance units; (d) design
of control systemw  :or mr  ,tories, fuel and lubricants consumption, and
maintenance and -     -    s; and (e) design of an adequate diagnostic method
and quality conL;.
Phase 3:  (a) r= niementation of reorganization of the services,
including reassignmeat. of personnel and machinery and tools; (b) preparation
of bidding documentr ',r the acquisition of machinery and tools and
diagnostic iv*trumeacation to adequately equip the port workshops and
maintenance facilities; and (c) implementation of the use of manuals and
control systems. This phase is expected to last about 36 weeks.



_ 92 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix B
Phase 4: Six months after completion of Phase 3, the consultants
would go back to the ports to:   (a) assess the performance of the
reorganized maintenance services and the personnel assigned thereto at each
port; and (b) reco mend corrections to the established systems and controls.
This phase will last about one month.
Reporting
3.        The consultants will prepare:  an Inception report, after
completion of Phase 1; an interim report, Number 1, including manuals and
control systems, and an organination manual, including detailed functions and
rssponsibillties; monthly progress reports, during Phase 3. A Draft Final
Raport followed by a Final Report Incorporating COLPUERTOS and Bank comments,
Ofter completion of Phase 3, and an evaluation report, after completlon of
Phase 4.



- 93 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. General
1.        The proposed project would consist of:  (a) the rehabilitation of
port facilities at three of the four deepwater commercial public ports of the
country, namely, Buenaventura on the Pacific Coast, and Cartagena and Santa
Marta on the Atlantic Coast; (b) cargo handling equipment to supplement
COLPUERTOS' and privately owned, second-hand tugboats to partially replace
the existing fleet; workshop machinery and tools; training equipment and
training-related material; and computer equipment complementary to that
existing; and (c) professional services for: (i) technical assistance to
help COLPUERTOS to strengthen its managerial, administrative and operational
capabilities; (ii) training of COLPUERTOS personnel; and (iii) engineering
and studies.
B. Civil Works
(i) At Buenaventura
2.        Repairs to Quays 2 tc 9: These quays need to be repaired since
they are seriously deteriorated as a result of: poorly maintained fender
systems (the berthing beam and a large number of concrete piles are seriously
damaged); defective design (some quays' sections were built with no retention
structures to contain backfilling); and poor coastruction antd age (a large
part of the structure's steel reinforcement is exposed and corroded). Paving
and Repaving: Storage areas behind berths 2 to 5 are damaged and would be
repaved under the project (concrete slabs are fractured, and settlements
cause flooding during raining spells that occur most every day). Storage
areas behind berths 6 to 9 and the corresponding access road have never been
paved and lack drainage and lighting. Covered storage: Most of the areas
adjacent to, and between, transit sheds have been covered in recent years to
allow cargo operations during rainy periods (there is an average
precipitation of P.bout 770 mm per year). The project includes construction
of roofs for similar areas not yet covered. Emergency Power Plant: There
are continuous power interruptions in the port due to unreliable municipal
services to which the port is connected. The proposed project includes an
emergency power plant.
(ii) At Cartagena
3.        Repairs to Finger Piers 1 and 2:  These piers would be repaired
since they are also deteriorated as a result of lack of fenders (this has
caused damages similar to those in Buenaventura) and poor construction
(corrosion of exposed steel reinforcement); the repairs would also include
demolition of an existing old transit shed in finger pier I to enable this
berth to handle container traffic. Remodeling of Sectors 3 and 4: These
sectors would be remodeled under the project, being paved and having a new
transit shed constructed to replace the ones to be demolished at pier 1 and
sectors 3 and 4. Emergency Power Plant: For same reasons as in
Buenaventura, an emergency power plant would be included in the project.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
(iii) At Barranquilla
4.        Emergency Power Plants:  This port, more than the others, suffers
continued power interruptions; the project would include two emergency
plants.
(iv) At Santa Marta
5.        Repairs to quay 1, 2 and 3: These quays would be subject to partial
reconstruction and urgent repairs because of their serious degree of
deterioration due to faulty design and poor construction (no retention wall
was built to contain the backfill; about 60 piles of the front row have been
broken by berthing vessels; and the concrete structure's steel reinforcement
is exposed and corroded). Quays 4 and 5: These quays would be repaired to
replace broken piles, construct a new berthing beam and replace the existing
fender system. Emergency Power Plant: An emergency power plant would be
included in the project to avoid interruptions caused by unreliable municipal
services to which the port is connected.
C. Equipment
6.        Equipment requirements are based upon:  (a) operational analyses
carried out by COLPUERTOS for each type of cargo operation to determine the
resources required. These analyses were reviewed and found satisfactory by
the appraisal mission. The methodology followed is described in Annex 3, and
the full analysis is in the Project File; (b) traffic projections;
Cc) physical conditions of COLPUERTOS' plant of equipment, taking into
consideration an ongoing equipment rehabilitation plan undertaken by the
ports; and (d) availability of privately owned equipment currently used at
the project ports.
7.        The project would finance the purchase of heavy load and container
handling equipment, harbor craft, workshop machinery and tools, training and
computer equipment. Heavy load equipment: This includes heavy forklift
trucks and mobile cranes to replace old equipment purchased in 1970 or
before, and additional heavy forklift trucks to cope with traffic growth; the
list of heavy load equipment takes into consideration the availability of
privately owned forklifts and cranes. Container handling equipment: This
includes equipment supplementary to that presently existing, both COLPUERTOS'
and privately owned, to cover current shortage and provide for traffic
growth; in addition, to enable the ports to adopt, on a regular basis, the
tractor/trailer marriage system to mobilize containers from/to shipside to
container stacking area, yard tractors and trailers and 18,000-lb. and 65,000
lb. forklift trucks have also been included in the list. Harbor craft:
COLPUERTOS' tugboat fleet is 35 years old and extremely expensive to
maintain, making COLPUERTOS' maritime services unreliable. At Buenaventura,
there are two tugs, one of which is going to be repaired with a new engine;
there are no private tugs available, and, when no tugboat is available, some
small navy tugs, inadequate for these services, are used; at the Atlantic
ports, COLPUERTOS has four more tugs, one of which is going to be repaired
with a new engine. Private tugs are available, but only two of them are
appropriate to provide services to COLPUERTOS. The proposed project includes
the acquisition of four second-hand tugboats to partially replace the
existing fleet. Workshop, Training and Computer Equipment: This would
include:  (a) workshop equipment to enable the ports to provide propel



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
preventive and corrective maintenance services; the corresponding list would
be prepared by the experts to be retained to assist COLPUERTOS in
restructuring these services under the technical assistance project
component; (b) training equipment, with characteristics to be defined by
COLPUERTOS with the assistance of a training expert to be retained by
COLPUERTOS; and (c) computer equipment for the implementation of management
information systems, with characteristics to be defined by the experts
assisting COLPUEkTOS to develop such systems.
8.        Procurement of cargo handling equipment includes equipment to
replace obsolete existing units and to cover the shortage for current traffic
levels, as well as additional equipmcnt to cope with traffic growth.
D. Technical Assistance
9.        The technical assistance chat would be included in the proposed
project consists of: (a) improvement to COLPUERTOS' financial management
systems, including general and cost accounting, tariff structures, financial
planning and budgetary conrrols; (b) improvement to COLPUERTOS' management
information systems; (c) strengthening and improvement to the ports\
operatiuns planning procedures, cargo-handling methods and controls and
simplification of port documentation; and (d) reorganizing of port
maintenance and repair services.
10.      An important element of this technical assistance is the upgrading
of the ports' maintenance services which would be achieved with the support
of carefully selected experts, -who, together with port staff, would prepare a
diagnosis, an immediate plao of corrective measures, the design and
regulations of a modern maintenance system followed by a period of
implem3ntation and ending with an assessment of results achieved. Outlines
of the scope of work for items (a) and (b) a-e given in Annex 2; and for
items (c) and (d), in Annex 3.
E. Training
11.       The training component would include:  (a) advisory services to
prepare and implement a training program; (b) port planning, operations and
maintenance courses and seminars for mid- and top-management; (c) COLPUERTOS'
participation in regional and international ports and shipping conferences
and congresses; and (d) fellowships for COLPUERTOS' professional staff.
Details of the training component and the scope of the training advisory
services are given in Annex 5.
F. Engineering and Studies
12.       The proposed project would include:  (a) supervision of
construction; (b) engineering studies and design for COLPUERTOS' next
investment plan tc equip selected ports with full container and bulk handling
facilities; and (c) feasibility studies for the expansion of Colombia's port
capacity on the Pacific Coast; and (d) a study to define institutional
arrangements to establish a viable dredging entity.
April 1985



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of the Training Component
A.  General
1.       COLUERTOS' senior-level staff are generally capable; lower and
middle-level prcoavanel require additional training and/or upgrading to enable
them to employ more efficient work methods. During the past years, limited
training activities have been carried out in each port by the respective
training division under the Industrial Relations Department (IRD).
2.        During project preparation, COLPUERTOS, following Bank
recommendations, started to develop a training policy to strengthen the
capacity of the enterprise's personnel at all levels. COLPUERTOS' management
has already entered a formal agreement with SENA, which became effective on
January 1, 1985, for the provision of regular training services. SENA is
expected to provide: (a) regular training courses for equipment operators,
mechanics, and administrative staff at each one of the project ports; and
(b) semidnars on industrial safety, work incentives, managerial skills,
development of working team attitudes and other subjects oriented to create
an enterprise's consciousness among its employees. COLPUERTOS' training is
currently being reorganized; the responsibility of social and welfare
activities has been transferred to other departments. Bogota and each of the
ports have two and one experts, respectively, who, at the present, are
defining with SENA a preliminary training program limited to SENA's current
capabilities.
3.        COLPUERTOS' management agreed to the establishment of:  (a) a
Training Steering Committee (TSC) which would be responsible for the
development of long-term training policies, approval of training programs and
required budgetary allocations, monitoring of training activities and their
periodical evaluation; and (b) a Training Supervisory Unit (TSU) that would
be responsible for the coordination and supervision of training activities,
headed by IRD and assisted by the advisory services to be retained.
4.        The Project-Related Training (PRT) will imclude:  (a) advisory
services; (b) in-house courses/seminars; (c) selected specialized courses for
mid- and top-level managers abroad; (d) participation of COLPUERTOS' staff in
international/regional ports and shipping conferences/congresses;
(e) working visits to selected ports to familiarize COLPUERTOS' managers,
operations staff and port workers with container operations methods, systems
and controls, as well as with tariff structures, methods of payment, labor
participation and rationalization of operations; (f) fellowships for selected
COLPUERTOS' young professionals for academic courses and practical training
in port administration and planning; and (g) acquisition of training
equipment and material.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
5.        The integrated training program, including SENA's services, would
require its active participation to achieve the transference of the
instructors/experts' experience and enable it to, in the future, expand its
services to cover specialized port training that, at the present, it cannot
cover. This is of particular importance because COLPUERTOS will continue to
pay SENA for training services as a percentage of the latter's payroll, as
stipulated by the law.
6.        The advisory services that would be included in the proposed
project to assist COLPUERTOS in strengthening its training capabilities and
support the preparation and implementation of a four-year integrated training
program would consist of: (a) reorganizing the training services at Bogota
and at the project ports; (b) assessing the capability of personnel and
determining required training; (c) adapting physical training facilities;
(d) developing a phased training program, phase one covering a two-year
Priority Program and phase two being a Regular Program to consolidate actions
taken during phase one; (e) selecting trainees, instructors, training
seminars/courses, materials and candidates for fellowships; (f) designing a
training monitoring and evaluating system; and (g) organizing, coordinating
and supervising the implementation of the integrated program.
7.        The preparation of the training program would take into
consideration all available courses/seminars and the need for coordination
with the Bank and other international organizations/associations; the
organization of some high level courses on a regional basis should also be
analyzed. Estimates of COLPUERTOS personnel to be trained and preliminary
cost estimates of the PRT are given in Tables 1 and 2 of this annex
respectively.
B.  Plan of Action
8.        To ensure the effectiveness of the PRT, COLPUERTOS has undertaken
the following steps:
(a) retained training experts for the advisory services referred
to in preceeding paragraph 6;
(b) prepared a preliminary training program to be undertaken by
SENA;
(c) established a TSC and TSU with SENA's participation in the
latter;
9.        At negotiations, COLPUERTOS agreed to implement the plan of action
which would include:
(a) preparation of an integrated four-year training program;
(b)  rehabilitation/expansion of COLPUERTOS/SENA's training
facilities;
(c) selection of fellowship courses and candidates; and



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
(d) selection of instructors/experts for courses/seminars in
Colombia and abroad.
Training Monitoring and Supervision
10.       TSU would prepare detailed monthly reports that would be
incorporated into the Quarterly Progress Report (Annex 7).   TSU's reports
would include, but not exclusively, details of the courses, number of
participants, locations, etc., carried out during the period and of the
activities programed for the next period.
Selection of Instructors/Experts/Courses
11.       The selection of individual experts and/or firms, organizations,
associations, etc. to participate in the implementation of the training
program would follow the Bank Guidelines for consultants' services.
October 1985



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimates of Personnel to Be Trained
Description   Buenaventura   Barranquilla   Cartagena   Sta. Marta  Total
1.  OPERATIONS    2,200              930         1,300        1,000   5,430
2. MAINTENANCE/
EQUIPMENT       120               96            74           50     340
3.  FINANCE          60               70            60           40     230
TOTAL             2,380            1,096         1,434        1,090   6,000
Source: COLPUERTOS and Port Terminals
June 1984



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training
Preliminary Cost Estimates 1/
Local        Foreign        Total
(USs '000)
Advisory Services                        46             177         223
Training Courses by Experts             191             617         808
Courses and Seminars (abroad)           -               199         199
Study Visits and Congresses             -               103         103
Fellowships                             -               422         422
Training Materials                      -                50          50
Hiscellaneous (per diem for
trainees) etc.                        -               50           50
TMTAL                                   237           1,321       1,528
1/ Manpower is tentatively estimated at about 66 man-months, including
experts engaged for the courses and seminars abroad.
Source; Mission estimates
February 1985



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
I. General Methodology
1.   For the purposes of the economic evaluation, the following project
components were analyzed separately:
(a) civil works, including quay repairs, paving and improvements to
structures;
(b) cargo-handling equipment; and
(c) tugboats.
The civil works components were justified mainly on the basis of avoidance of
reductions in port capacity and higher operating costs through the
rehabilitation of infrastructure to restore service levels. In some cases
(paving, roof extensions), the civil works were also designed to improve
efficiency levels.  The cargo handling equipment component was designed to
provide capacity to meet projected trasfic flows. Benefits include avoidance
of lighterage costs and cargo handling costs with the project. The tugboats
will partially replace the existing 32-year old fleet.
2.        For the purposes of the economic evaluation, total investment costs
include the cost of works already under way in Cartagena and Buenaventura
which are required in order to achieve project benefits, even where these
costs will not be financed under the project. Investment costs are exclusive
of taxes and duties and include physical contingencies, engineering and
supervision. A project life of 25 years was taken for quay repairs, 20 years
for roof extension, and 15 years for paving improvements. For the equipment
component, a project life of 15 years was taken for the second-hand tugboat
repairs and 15 years for cargo handling equipment.
3.        At present, approximately 30Z of foreign seaborne commerce using
public ports is carried by national flag vessels and 70Z by foreign vessels.
Most of the benefits from the project derived from traffic transported on
foreign vessels will be passed on to the Colombian economy, since, without
the project, foreign liners would impose surcharges on Colombian cargo in
order to recover the costs of excessive ship service times. Surcharges have
been imposed during periods of congestion in the past. With the project,
these surcharges would be avoided. To account for this effect in calculating
the economic return for the paving and structures works and equipment
acquisition programs, only half of the benefits from reduced waiting and
service time of foreign liner ships have been considered, which is
conservative.



- 102 -
ANNEX 6
II. Economic Evaluation of Project Components
A. Civil Works
(i) Quay Repairs (31% of project costs)
4.        The port rehabilitation project includes the renovation of berths
in Buenaventura, Cartagena and Santa Marta. Present facilities are in an
extreme state of disrepair, and, without the project, are expected to become
inoperational over time. Table 1 of this annex shows the expected rate of
deterioration in berth capacity in each of the project ports if they are not
rehabilitated. In the Buenaventura and Cartagena ports, the repairs are
relatively minor. The work is more difficult and costly in Santa Marta where
the existing superstructure will have to be removed before rehabilitation.
The economic appraisal of the project quantified four sources of benefits
resulting from the proposed port improvements: ship waiting time savings,
avoidance of lighterage costs, elimination of double-handling of cargo, and
reduction in cargo losses due to lighterage. In order to avoid
double-counting of benefits, it was assumed, in both the 'with' and "without"
project case, that the other project components would be carried out. In
addition, improved Santa Marta grain throughput, due to more efficient use of
the silos, is assumed in both the "with' and "without" project cost.
5.        Without the project, the convergence of declining berth capacity
and rising traffic would create congestion, resulting in prolonged ship
delays.l/ It is not likely that general cargo traffic would divert to
private specialized terminals. Instead, to minimize waiting time costs, ship
owners would resort to lighterage. The expected distribution of port
traffic, which would tend to minimize overall ship waiting time and lighter
operations, has been estimated by assuming that no ship would wait for the
berth if its per ton of cargo cost of waiting exceeded the cost of
lighterage.
6.        In the 'with the project" case, berth capacity would be restored to
original levels. However, increasing levels of traffic would eventually lead
to congestion and diversion of traffic to lighterage. As such, benefits have
been assumed to remain constant after the year in which the port reaches full
capacity. Capacity is expected to be reached, with the project, in 1992 at
Santa Marta, 1993 at Cartagena, and 1996 at Buenaventura. 2/ In all ports,
repairs would be scheduled to minimize disruption to port operations and to
put individual berths back to use as soon as their repairs are completed.
1/ In the analysis, it was assumed that a third shift would be introduced
when port capacity, under current labor practices, is reached.
2/ Congestion at Santa Marta will be partially and temporarily relieved by
diversion of some traffic to the nearby, less congested port of
Barranquilla. For one to two years, the incremental congestion cost in
Barranquilla would be less than the incremental cost in ship waiting time at
Santa Marta.



- 103 -
ANNEX 6
7.        Ship Waiting Time Costs.  Ship waiting time costs were computed by
using the Bank's shipcost model and weighing the costs of Individual ship
types to reflect their actual mix in each port.
Ship Time in Port Costs
(US$/Day)
Buenaventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6,818
Barranquilla . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,227
Cartagena  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $7,373
Santa Marta  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6,829
8.        Using UNCTAD's average ship waiting time tables for values
corresponding to project port characteristics, ship waiting time costs per
ton of cargo were estimated as a function of projected traffic growth and,
for the "without the project" scenario, declining port capacity. It has been
assumed that ship waiting time would remain constant after its value reaches
US$12.80/ton, which is the unit cost of lighterage, including avoidable
handling costs. At that point, increases in traffic would be handled more
efficiently by lighterage. Diversion of traffic to lighterage would occur in
1989 at Buenaventura, 1989 at Cartagena and 1988 at Santa Marta in the
"without the project" case.
9.        Lighterage Costs.  Lighterage costs include the cost of lighters
(depreciation), auxiliary equipment and maintenance and operation. They do
not include the cost of shore facilities since adequate landing facilities
exist. The per ton cost of an initial lighterage system averages US$7.00 per
ton at the volumes of traffic expected at the project ports.
10.       Avoidable Cargo  Handling Costs Due to Lighterage.  According to a
recent study, the avoidable cost of loading/unloading cargo between the ship
and berth by lighterage was US$5.80/ton. This saving was applied to each ton
of lightered cargo.
11.       Cargo Losses Due to Lighterage.  The most recent data indicate that
the CIF value of general cargo imports at project ports is US$546 per ton.
The FOB value of general cargo exports has been determined largely by coffee
exports (US$1,500 per ton) and others (US$1,000 per ton). The average value
per ton of general cargo traffic weighed for different import-export
composition of traffic gives following values at individual project ports.
Buenaventura . . . . . . . . . US$923 per ton
Cartagena . . . . . . . . . . US$732 per ton
Santa Marta  . . . . . . . . .US$800 per ton
Cargo damage and losses, normal features of lighterage operations, are
estimated at one-fourth of one percent of cargo. Hence, estimated avoidable
cargo losses for project ports range from US$1.46 per ton for Cartagena to
US$2.00 per ton for Santa Marta and US$2.31 per ton for Buenaventura. These
unit costs were applied to each ton of lightered cargo.



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
12.       AL Santa Marta, the proposed quay improvements also include
provisions for paving surfaces on and along the existing wharves and access
roads. At present, general cargo imports are stored throughout the port
storage areas, separated from the wharves by access roads which are either
unpaved or which have riding surfaces too weak and old to support heavy
equipment and provide smooth cargo-handling operations. As a result, some
wharves cannot be served by heavy cargo-handling and transport equipment.
Equipment operates slowly and breaks down frequently, and long detours are
often necessary between the wharves and the storage areas. These problems
are reflected in longer ship service time and higher cargo handling costs and
cargo damages. With the project, there will be cost reductions and savings
in all of the operational aspects mentioned. The reduction in ship time for
unloading imports is estimated at 20%; little or no effect is likely for
coffee and bananas - the primary export commodities. The ability to use
appropriate equipment will benefit all port cargo, except bulk grain imports,
by reducing the cargo handling cost by about 5%. There will also be some
decline in cargo damage due to rough riding surfaces, estimated at 0.5% and
applying primarily to general cargo imports.
13.       Details of the economic analysis of the quay rehabilitation works
are found in the project file. Table 2 of this annex gives the cost and
benefit streams for each port. The estimated economic rates of return are
high, which is consistent with the findings in most rehabilitation projects,
whereby an asset is restored to originally designed service levels at a
relatively low cost. The estimated economic retur-s for the rehabilitation
of the Buenaventura and Cartagena ports are 86% and 63% respectively, and 38%
for the Saata Marta port works.
(ii) Paving and Structures (19% of project costs)
14.       In addition to the paving improvements at Santa Marta, w'hich were
analyzed as part of the quay repairs, the project includes paving and
structural improvements in the ports of Buenaventura and Cartagera. At
Buenaventura, the roof to the existing transit sheds will be extended, and
the storage area and an access road will be paved. At Cartagena, existing
transit sheds will be demolished, and the area will be paved to accommodate
container storage.
15.       Buenaventura:  Roof Extension and Paving Benefits (10% of project
costs). The proposed roof extension to the existing transit sheds and paving
works will permit continuous cargo operations, reducing ship service time at
berth and waiting time for land transport vehicles. Interruption in loading
and unloading ships caused by inclement weather totaled 270 ship days in
1983. Lack of a covering for transit areas is estimated to account for about
13% of the total time lost because of inclement weather. The daily cost of
the vessels which would benefit from reduced ship service times is estimated
at US$11,800. The initial annual ship service time saving to be realized
from extending the roof is estimated at US$269,000. At present, transit
sheds benefiting from the proposed improvements handle approximately 240,000
tons of cargo annually. Trucks wait an average of 0.4 minute per each ton of
cargo loaded as a result of weather-related work stoppages. With the truck
time value of US$3.03 per hour, the annual cost of avoidable delays is
estimated at over US$5,000.



- 105 -
ANNEX 6
16.       Under this component, the open storage areas and access roads will
be paved. In 1983, some 360,000 tons of cargo used open storage. Since it
rains 602 of the time in Buenavencura, some 216,000 tons are estimated to
have been exposed to the inclement weather. Particularly heavy damage has
been experienced by breakbulk cargo, estimated at 150,000 tons stored in the
water-clogged patio No. 1, and in the unpaved patios facing transit sheds 6,
7, 8 and 9. The project will improve drainage, thereby reduciug
rain-connected losses. According to port estimates, oxidization of iron and
steel product imports accounts for losses of 10-20% of their value, and
losses are higher for some bagged products. Reduction in cargo damage
brought about by improvements is conservatively estima':ed at 1% of the
average value of port imports of US$546 per ton.
17.       The main port road surface has been destroyed by rain and heavy
traffic, forcing the use of adjacent unpaved areas for cargo and vehicle
movements. This situation raises the cost of cargo handling, limits the use
of heavy equipment and increases the damage to port cargo and land transport
vehicles. A recent study estimates the increase in cargo handling cost due
mainly to axle and suspenslon breakdown at 9% overall cargo handllng costs,
or US$1.16 per ton. This cost would be avoided if proposed improvements are
implemented. Cargo damages in transit between the ship and storage and land
transport and between the storage areas are difficult to quantify. A
reduction of 0.5% in the US$546 per ton value of cargo assumed for this
appraisal is believed to be conservative. The economic rate of return for
the roof extension and paving works at Buenaventura is estimated at 36%
(Table 3 of this annex).
18.       Cartagena:  Paving Container Yard (9Z of project costs'.  The
project will demolish transit sheds and pave the area for container storage.
A new transit shed will be built in a different location to provide covered
storage for general cargo. The principal benefit of an additional container
yard and maneuvering area on the longer berth No. I will te a reduction in
ship service time. Both areas are close to the container berths, and the
project will speed up the container loading and unloading process. The
project will also benefit general cargo vessels using the port facilities. A
reduction of 15% in ship service time is expected. The estimated economic
rate of return on these works is 27% (Table 3 of this annex).
B.   Cargo Handling Equipment
19.       The benefits of the equipment acquisition program have been
estimated separately for each port and major function: container handling
and heavy load general cargo handling.  The analysis cf equipment
requirements to meet projected traffic, taking into account the current
supply of equipment owned by COLPUERTOS and the private sector, is given in
Annex 6. Because the benefits from the project depend, to a great extent,
upon the achievement of improved productivity, the equipment program has been
divided into two tranches. The second tranche would be approved for
financing under the project only after a mid-term review indicates that
productivity targets have been met and traffic has developed as expected.



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
(i) Container Handling Equipment (12% of project costs)
20.       At present, COLPUERTOS lacks appropriate container handling
equipment. The use of subctitute equipment such as forklifts instead of
tractors and platforms, or of two small forklifts working in tandem instead
of a large one, is reflected in higher ship service time and cargo handling
Costs. The equipment being procured under the project Is required to achieve
a technological change which will result in improved productivity. The
equipment package is also design&ed to meet the needs of traffic growth and to
replace, as necessary, existing equipment which will be scrapped. Two main
sources of benefits have been quantified: (a) ship service time savings; and
(b) container handling cost savings.
21.       In both the "with" and 'without" project case, it has been assumed
that the quay rehabilitation works will be undertaken.  In addition, in the
without project scenario, it is assumed that existing equipment, as it
reaches the end of its useful life, will be operated with declining
productivity and increasing unit costs. With the project, improved methods
of handling container traffic will be possible with the introduction of
appropriate equipment, and productivity levels are expected to increase.
SpecificaLly, the following productivity levels are expected in line with
targets established in Annex 6:
WITHOUT PROJECT               WITH PROJECT
Port                            (TEU/gang/hour)              (TEU/gang/hour)
Actual (1984)      Projecred (1995)       1987     1989
Buenaventura              6                  4.5                7         8
Cartagena                 6                  4.5                7         8
Barranquilla              4                  3.0                5         6
Santa Marta               4                  3.0                5         6
22.       Ship Service Time Savings.  Ship service time savings have been
esLimated by applying the unit value of ship time in port to ship service
times with and without the project, taking into consideration changes in
productivity rates. The following unit ship costs were computed for the
average type of vessel c&rrying containers, using the Bank's shipcost model:
Buenaventura                  US$20,860/day
Cartagena                    US$15,190/day
Barranquilla                 US$6,050/day
Santa Marta                   US$5,200/day
23.       Container Handling Cost Savings.  The new container equipment will
also reduce the unit cost of container handling. At present, the direct
operating cost (labor, fuel maintenance and repair) of COLPUERTOS' container
handling equipment is estimated at US$0.34/ton. Without the project, this
cost is expected to increase in line with declines in productivity as given
in paragraph 21. With the project, productivity will increase by at least
10%, thereby reducing handling costs to US$0.30/ton.
24.       At Buenaventura and Cartagena, the project also provides for
acquisition of container stuffing/emptying equipment, which will primarily be
used for coffee traffic. At present, most containers stuffed or emptied in



- 107 -
ANNEX 6
these ports are handled manually. It takes, on the average, four men 30
minutes to handle one container. With the project, the handling time would
be reduced by 50X and only two men would be required, one of whom is the
equipment operator. The estimated avoidable costs of salaries (including
social benefits) and equipment maintenance, and fuel with and without the
project are shown below:
-US$/ton
Without Project        With Project
Number     Cost       Number    Cost
Stackers                              4       2.42           1      0.63
Equipment Operator                    0       0.00           1      0.19
Subtotal                         4       2.42                  0.82
Equipment                                                           0.10
Total                                                          0.92
The resulting unit saving of US$1.50 per ton has been applied to projected
traffic volumes to obtain the annual benefit.
25.       The container handling equipment component has an estimated
economic rate of return of 32Z at Buenaventura, 22% at Cartagena, 29% at
Santa Marta, and 32% at Barranquilla (Table 4 of this annex).
(ii) Heavy Load Equipment (10% of project costs)
26.       At present, the ports are ill-equipped to handle heavy load
traffic since the existing mobile cranes are, on average, 25 years old, with
the exception of two 12-ton capacity cranes that are still in good
condition. The project provides for acquisition of 40-ton and 16-ton cranes
for each port to handle this type of traffic. Forklift trucks will also be
acquired, in two tranches. The first will replace existing equipment, which
experiences frequent breakdowns and which can no longer be repaired
economically. The second tranche is designed to handle expected increases in
traffic. The principal benefits of heavy load equipment will be reductions
in ship service times and lower cargo handling costs. There will also be
minor non-quantified benefits because of less cargo damage. Traffic which
requires heavy lift equipment is shown in Table 5 of this annex.
27.       With the project, productivity is expected to increase above the
present level and remain there for the useful life of the equipment, provided
the equipment is maintained properly. The per ton cost of handling heavy
loads without the project is estimated at US$30 per hour or US$0.75 per ton.
The cost of handling this traffic with the project is estimated at US$0.64
per ton with the project, which is in line with the productivity targets.



- 108 -
ANNEX 6
28.       Reductions in ship and truck service times are also expected to
result from the equipment acquisition program. Without the project,
productivity is estimated to be 16 tons/hour. With the project, productivity
is expected to reach 60 tons/hour. Since other factors besides availability
of this equipment affect ship waiting times, it has been estimated that
effective ship waiting time savings will equal only 25% of total potential
ship waiting time savings with the project. For trucks, 100% of the
productivity benefits are expected to be realized. The estimated economic
rates of return vary from 16% in Buenaventura to 29% in Cartagena, 25% in
Santa Marta, and 38Z in Barranquilla.
D.   Tugboats (11% of project costs)
29.       The project provides for acquisition of four used tugboats to
replace those which are to be scrapped since the high cost of major repairs
and declining availability make their operation uneconomic. Because the tug
is really an integral part of the efficient and safe operation of a port, its
costs and benefits cannot readily be isolated. In this case, the cost of tug
acquisition was included in the overall economic analysis of the project.
The tug analysis focused upon the determination of the most economic
alternative: acquisition of used tugs or acquisition of new tugs. The
present value of the capital and maintenance cost of each alternative was
compared. It was assumed that the used tugs would have a 15-year useful life
and new tugs, a 25-year life. The acquisition of used tugs is the least cost
alternative (Table 7 of this annex).
October 1985



- 109 -
ANNEX 6
Tahle 1
COLOKTA
PORTS RMEABILIAON PROJECT
Decline in Berth Ca5;city Due to Deterioration of Port Facilities without the ProJect
a apacity as T of the ORginal Capacity) Il
Part an  Berth            1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Buenaventura
1                     SO     50    40    40    30    30    20    20       0     0
2                     75     70    65  * so    30      0      0     0     0     0
3                     80     80    80    75    75    75    S0    S0    50    30
4                     90     90    75    65    65    S0    S0    30    30        0
5                     90     80    70    70    S0    50    30    30       0     0
*6                    90      90    80    80    75    75    S0    S0    30    30
7                     90     90    65    65    S0    S0    30    30       0     0
8                     90     90    80    80    75    65    S0    50    50    30
9                     90     90    75    75    50    50   130    In       n      n
10                    100    100   100   100   100   100   100    93   83'   80
t                    L00    100   t00   100   L00   100   100   100    90    8S
2                     70     70    65    60    S0    50    40    40    30    30
3                     80     75    70    60    60    S0    50    40    40    30f
4                     so     SO    SO    50    50    S0    S0    50   s5    50
5                     80     75    70    60    60    50    50    40    40    30
6                     70     70    65    60    50    S0    40    40    30    30
Santa Marta
1                    60      60    SO   S0    40    30       0      0     0     0
2                     90     80    80    70    70    60    60    40    40    30
3                     90     80    80    70    70    60    60    40    40    30
4                    100     95    95    90    90    80    70    70    60    6a
5                    80      80    75    75    60    60    S0    S0    40    40
1/ Berth capacity Z was deteruied taking into cosideration the actual restrictions
that have alredy been Imposed in term of use of equipment, wtloading heavy cargo
and trucks, and/or wagons' traffic-limitations. Zero berth cavacity indicates the
yer In which the quays will have to be put out of service.
Source: mission estimates
April 1985



- 110 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
COLOMBIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Quay Repairs - Economic Analysis
(thousand US dollars)
Buenaventura                Cartagena                Santa Marta
Net                      Net                         Net
Year Costs Benefits Benefits Costs Benefits Benefits  Costs Benefits  Benefits
1984   303               -303   1,895             -1,895     767               -767
1985  1,308            -1,308     574               -574   3,045             -3,045
1986  1,751            -1,751     703               -703   3,034             -3,034
1987  1,308     927      -381     195    1,603     1,408   4,546    1,222   -3,324
1988          3,887     3,887            3,206     3,206            4,886     4,886
1989          9,052     9,052            6,453     6,453            6,999     6,999
1990         15,604    15,604            9,923     9,923            6,431     6,431
1991         15,873    15,873            8,437     8,437            5,831     5,831
1992         17,464    17,464            7,553     7,553            5,831     5,831
1993         17,302    17,302            5,588     5,588            5,831     5,831
1994         16,585    16,585            5,588     5,588            5,831     5,831
1995         14,331    14,331            5,588     5,588            5,831     5,831
1996-
2011        11,451    11,451            5,588     5,588            5,831     5,831
Economic Rate of Return
Buenaventura                86%
Cartagena                   63%
Santa Mharta                38%
Source: mission estimates
October 1985



- 111 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
COLOMBIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Paving and Structures - Economic Analisis
(thousand US dollars)
Buenaventura                             Cartagena
Roof Extension and Paving                        Paving
Net                                      Net
Year              Costs  Benefits  Benefits               Costs  Benefits  Benefits
1985                688        0       -688                   0         0         0
1986              1,845        0    -1,845                1,616         0    -1,616
1987              1,844      709    -1,135                2,026         0    -2,026
1988                453    1,110        657                 205         0      -205
1989                       2,033      2,033                        1,338      1,338
1990                       2,094      2,094                        1,398      1,398
1991                       2,177      2,177                        1,475      1,475
1992                       2,285      2,285                        1,598      1,598
1993                       2,389      2,389                        1,598      1,598
1994                       2,492      2,492                        1,598      1,598
1995                       2,580      2,580                        1,598      1,598
1996                       2,580      2,580                        1,598      1,598
1997                       2,580      2,580                        1,598      1,598
1998-2003                  2,580      2,580                        1,598      1,598
2004-2005                  2,580      2,580                             0         0
Economic Rate of Return                 36Z                                     27%
Source: mission estimates
October 1985



PORTS R IIAILITATIOI  PROJECT
Cootelw  Hadling Equlpata Ecancic Analysis
(- U1$ thlusadl
Sumveawturs                      Cutga           arreeulli                                       Santa mute
Not                             Not                             Hot                             Not
Yew    Costs   leilts   BesItts   Costs  8...it.   smolts   Costs  sIeeits   senlits   Costs   kmnilts   slenets
19g5    1,310                 1.310    1,221               -1,221          46                   -46         0         0
1966      223       220          -3        64       202      -361         159       31        -122         533        0        -553
19871      i        372         2          a        303       216          10       69          59         28        84          56
1966      644      02           -42   13094        463       432          464      126        -339         28       143         III
1919      113       741         626       1 33     I6         426          32      159          128        Zs       175         147
990       1153      91          75        134      674        540          32      199          167         2       211         384
3991      351    I. 06          929       iNa       aio       631          45      237          193         26      255         227
1992      I"      I,16I       1,009       la6      690        702          45      253          209         39      273         234                       '
3993      35      3,253       3.095       IN      1,065       815          45      210          225         39      291         253
994       in      1,335       1.11        IN      1.131       943          45      287          242         59      31I         272
199       I5N    1,341        1,183       16      1,205     1,017          4       304          260         39      311         272
19ff 
2003     203    1,343        1,313       241    1,205        964          57      3            247         39      311         272
2002      203       36           I15      241       766       525          57      21           230
203       203       269          61       241       672       431          51       as          142
Evoomlc Rote  l Returan 
BeneCa"                        32W                            22W                             32%                              29
Assmlag Po Iowans Is
prodwclvity ulth project    163                               125                             145                              133
.cl  misdo. estimates
April 1985



- 113 -
COLOBIA                            ANNX 6
Table 5
PORTS REHABITATION PROJECT
General Caruo Equipent: Re=Y  Traffic Forecast
(thousand tons)
Year        lusaentura          Cartc-na earranquilla             Sauta Marta
1986             67                84               144                51
1987             67                87               147                54
1988             67                92               153                59
1989             69                96               157                63
1990             70               102               165                67
1991             72               110               173                70
1992             74               119               182                72
1993             77               128               19i                75
1994             79               139               201                78
1995             82               I50               210                81
Source: mission wtisate
Apd. 1985



-  114 -                                           ANNEX 6
Table 6
HOU REMBIIrATX? MW
H         la9y  d  E E5p t: Fcmxc AnalUiS
(tF4 thouid)
Bienubtlra                      cartagn                       Bhrrmdfla                         Swite Harts
Net                            Nht                             Net                             Net
Year   Costs   BeIefts   Benefits   Costs   Benefits   Berefits  COsts   Benefits   Befits   Costs   Benefits   Benefits
1985      443                  -d43       149                -149         324                 -324         0         0           0
1986      371      209         -162       847      275       -572         592     348         -592       510         0       -510
1987       45      209          164        49      288        239          45     360           45        25       166         141
1988      328      209          119       426       M3       -123        380      372         -380       235       179        -56
1989       59      213          154        68      312        244          62     38            62         36      193         157
1990       59      217          158        68      335        266         62      399           62        36       2D5         170
1991       83      223          140        96      361        265         87      419           87        50       216         166
1992       83      229          146        96      391        295         87      440           87       5s        223         173
1993       83      237          154        96      419        323          87     463           87        50       231         181
1994       83      245          162        96      456        360         87      486           87        50       241         191
1995       83      253          170        96      502        46           87     496           87         50      250         200
1996-
2001     106      256          150       123      583        460         111     579          111         64      253         20t3
200        60       123          63       109      519        410          82     429           82         64      253         203
2003       31        61          30        34      163        129          34     178           34         29      102          68
>cgnmaic Rate of lpturn         16X                           29X                              38X                             25X
Source: missio  escr.
April 1985



- 115 -
AM=E 6
Tab la 7
COLONIIA
PORTS RErNLTTON PROJECT
Tiqbat Altitev
(S  thf andl
TUrCAT                              USE! TAT
CVP1TAL   MINT    TOTL               WITAL   MAINT    TITL
TEU     G           Ps         IS                           ST     CcsT
I  264       247                        1347    -          I7
2               132       132                         15       lag
'3              13        132                         19       I95
4               12        137                         195      185
5               132       132                        1'5       195
6               132       32                         195      195
a               195       19                          231      2
.*              :ss       133                         233      23
!1               in        19. 3
::135                     195 233                         23     9
;'               13       23                           23 1     231
3               231       233a                        23       233
14               231      231                          239      23
6               M3        3                            3        3
Us    -!000        0    -!000
MS3 ;  RATE           0.12           3iSCU   MI  E           .012
NET P!2  VALUE                       M ET FIEM2   VDLU      2491
Saurce: mission estimates
April 1985



- 116 -
ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Reporting
COLPUERTOS would prepare quarterly progress reports covering the
following areas:
A. Project execution: (a) cost estimates (actual, appraisal and
contracted amount; and disbursements (Table 1 of this annex); (b)
procurement, including bidding documents, bid evaluation, award, completion
date, etc. (Table 2);
(c) progress of construction (Table 3); and (d) productivity targets
(Table 4).
B. Productivity Targets: (a) ton/gang hour by port and per type of
cargo; (b) ton/ship/day by port and per type of cargo (Table 4).
Tables 1 to 4 are attached to this annex.
C. Traffic Statistics: quarterly import and export statistics by port
and total, broken down by month and by commodity groups as follows: (a) break
bulk general cargo, containers by size (empties and full), dry bulk and
liquid bulk; (b) shipping statistics grouped by gross tonnage and type and
flag (conventional general cargo vessels, container vessels, bulk carriers,
etc.); and (c) average ships service and waiting time and main reasons for
the latter.
February 1985



,mu ylLlT llon uuus
d i   W w INA        li
C,rx 4tfim)        of MAW   wa   (   .i) et             am  PRIM            m*8    5tmt %he   Auj   _ega           V
(it           ___                                     (U              J    ,, 43  _
labllid 
nodit tq amu I =I 4
90a lb      1. goI. a. a ml I
Aw uiruw 4 ad I
mE~~aq fWa  qds _a~   *a.t
for t4ol                      ag had  lAd.
off-tm11 (d mlmi                         *dam.
HUMM wt &,lS
-Im
~-        (. 
~m           S t_t   d 
NIl (-inI1  ad     )           10          Psl   W
_WII~
111 ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     e   k X  m
*~~~~_ ----.--                                      ZIm      !r           *       **-*



uiR 
c~~~~" I
X, sl~~~ii'i.
011
I 11~~~~
0  -w  oR  7X7    W 4  5.  



- 119 -
-                                          ^~~~~~~~-
M - - 
am t                           E             -
a)~~~~~~~~ u
, -4
8)
Vmg-s
t,.2 _ 
a) 4*
I. ~
2. a_
"P_AN.   _                              .



- 120 -
LW
In ~~           ~W
of                                         _
b) Muinlm.
camt1,u
1/ r  - _ _~ |fUu~ ~   inlir I~       Ug 
Wina     u11 !   dUm 4 ta - * >h
*) _4M%md
_ Bs   C_mL
b) MMUMMI
DMS -M
DU bAft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s .e"> _"_   ns_seour_~~tr            EMB
4mxdnftsap       o d Xdw O mmlss_.



-121 -
ANNEX 8
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the rcoject File
1.  Project Economic Analysis: Working Papers
2.   Project Traffic Forecasts:  Working Papers
3.   Port Equipment Requirements Analysis
4.   Detailed Cost Estimates by Project Item
5.  COLPUERTOS-SENA Agreement
6.  COLPUERTOS Organization and Functions Manuals (4 volumes)
7.  COLPUERTOS Short-, Medium- and Long-Term Objectives
8.  Draft Pension Law
9.  Four-Year Preliminary Training Program (4 volumes)
October 1985



COLOMBI A       '               aAms
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
car-hh-ee Sea     d,^ w
0 MWd I..* rMIS
MD" do                                      _____
It'w"m                                     Ng
;- zt ~Raw"AT
^1~ ~~bwmo Q"



&  ]                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA   $7
Mn4T                            t      2                               PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
<T  v  \   /Ws                                   ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~CARTAGENA|
--.-::-    t   ,    ,E,                      ;      -:j                       S                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'
|  ,   r~~~~~~'        0~W
'\O  ChNtlNU C|  | ,A |   - 
-'u-- S-  1 ''111:.0!..\..l.l.!.l...l!.!tAIE                  NWa
< /it>/ S I bp ~  Y A D   Frh -
CZ5@t//  ;aI r- --;--;od4
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ba _1 Rw pw I ww 2t ~' ~ - *   1 _
0~~~~~~~7. _-tu_'-                                                                              of' '-^w 3 WA _%-      2t/oS/S   i   2X >i     8!-4
----2--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 ?z6zeo         be wa c-X;  doroec



uo Id7.M
COLOMBIA
/                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS REHABILITATION
)                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
-.                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SANTA MARTA
;~~~~ X
- -   I~~~~~~  aAM-I



--7
-   <n 5       ,K--.                                #-;'R)  -<    C~~    ~   ~f          ~7              .                 ' s
1~~~~~.,    -                                                  '-LN    <s>9 -                                             ,#7h       I
X GAAAI                              z ff D 50
-~ ~ ~ --- --f  9/
COLOMBIA!D   
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT 1 \fi 
BUENAVENTURA                                                         \ 
. -    S~I ____w_                                      * 2- -              t9.m
I INow Shs Cmaw /Roo)  I IExieth Tnnw Meh wd Aally Wl   &\ps/
R., hd W SEa  AlmRoi \  
Si.- hcSS b .0    *                                                            \\ KC
N  ..   w. d.     .4t Ro6
=.ftwd,~~~/      @






