Report No. PID6540
Project name                     India-Andhra Pradesh-Economic...
Restructuring Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Nutrition, Primary Health, Primary Education,
Irrigation, Roads, and Public Enterprises
Project ID                       INPE49385
Borrower                         The Government of India (GOI)
Implementing agency              Nutrition: Ministry of Human Resource
Development, GOI and
Dept. of Women and Child Development,
The Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP).
Primary Health: Dept. of Health and Family
Welfare, GOAP.
Primary Education: State Implementation
Society, GOAP.
Roads: Roads and Buildings Dept. and
Panchayat Raj Engineering Dept., GOAP.
Irrigation: Irrigation and Command Area
Development Dept. and Agriculture
Dept., GOAP
Public Enterprise Reform: Public Enterprise
Management Board, GOAP.
Fiscal Reforms: Finance Dept., GOAP.
Date this PID prepared           June 12, 1998
Appraisal date                   March 1998
Projected board date            June 25, 1998
Background
1.      As in most Indian states, development expenditure in Andhra Pradesh (AP)
has been crowded out in the last 15 years by costly and poorly targeted
subsidies, by a rapidly expanding civil service and by interest payments. As
a result, critical public spending on social development and the maintenance
of the essential irrigation and road networks has fallen far short of the
state's needs. This is a major reason for the low level of social development
in the state, the high incidence of poverty and the relatively slow rate of
economic growth.
2.      Most social development indicators in AP are below the national average.
Infant mortality rate is 73 (per thousand of live births). Population below
the poverty line is almost 30 percent.    Malnutrition among children aged 0-6
years is estimated at about 30 percent. The literacy rate is only 44 percent,



significantly lower than the national average. At 33 percent, the female
literacy rate is one of the country's lowest. The poor health and educational
status of the population is largely explained by declining budgetary
allocations for these services. From 1986-87 to 1997-98, total combined
public expenditure on health and education declined from 4.7 percent of
state's gross state domestic product (GSDP) to 3.6 percent.
3.      Against this background, the AP Economic Restructuring Project (APERP)
would provide resources to meet priority needs in human development
(nutrition, primary health and primary education) and in the maintenance of
economic assets affecting the rural poor (irrigation, rural roads and core
access roads). This investment would be linked to a program of fiscal reform
aimed at bringing about a permanent shift in public expenditure towards these
priorities, while maintaining tight control over total public expenditure and
debt.
Project Objectives
4.      The project has two main development objectives: (a) financing critical
development expenditure in previously neglected social sectors, maintenance of
core road and canal network; and (d) supporting government efforts to ensure
sustainable increase in public expenditure towards these priorities through
cuts in subsidies, reduction in employment in civil service, improvement in
expenditure management, strengthening revenue mobilization, and public
enterprise reform.
Project Description
5.      The project (US$ 830.0 million) has the following six components:
(a) Nutrition (US$ 103.3 million): Malnutrition among pre-school children is
widespread, and the health status of pregnant and nursing women is poor among
low income families. The Bank supports strengthening of nutritional services
in several districts in the state under Integrated Child Development Scheme
(ICDS) operation. This component is an expansion of the ongoing ICDS program.
(b) Primary health (US$ 70.2 million): The primary health services are
inadequate, service quality is poor, and the programs are ineffective. This
component would finance recurrent and capital expenditure to improve the
quality and effectiveness of services in selected primary health centers with
special emphasis on improving management and coordination, and streamlining
service norms.
(c) Primary education (US$ 168.5 million): About 2.6 million children (30
percent of the 6-10 age group) do not attend school in AP. Shortages of
teachers and classrooms are pervasive. This component would finance expansion
of primary education under the District Primary Education Project (DPEP),
which has been successfully implemented in other states.
(d) Irrigation (US$ 282.3 million): Operation and maintenance (O&M)
expenditure in the public canal irrigation network is substantially below the
required norms, adversely affecting the efficiency of the network. Users'
participation in network management and cost recovery are weak. This component
would finance maintenance and rehabilitation of the network and support
government efforts to improve cost recovery and transfer maintenance
responsibly to farmers.
(e) Roads (US$ 179.5 million): O&M expenditure in the road sector is also
inadequate, creating poor riding conditions on the state's main roads. A large
number of villages are not accessible due to lack of adequate all-weather
- 2 -



roads. This component would finance upgrading and maintenance of the core
network to improve the quality of the rural population, and support
government policies to strengthen management of road maintenance.
(f) Severance Pay for Public Enterprise Reform (US$ 26.2 million): Losses
of public enterprises and cooperative societies where government holds
majority ownership, is a large fiscal burden in the state. This component
would support the preparation and implementation of GOAP's public enterprise
reform program and finance the severance pay for the affected employees in the
companies to be closed, privatized, or restructured. Severance pay will
constitute part of a broader safety net program which includes counseling and
retraining.
Project Financing
6.      The financing plan is as follows.
Government      Beneficiaries    IBRD/IDA
Nutrition                        28.8             74.5
Primary health                   11.8            58.4
Primary education                31.1             137.4
Core road network                66.9             112.6
Irrigation                       44.3            96.0             142.0
Public enterprise reform         7.9              18.3
Total                            190.8             96.0           543.2
7.      The Public Enterprise Reform Component would be supported by a parallel
Technical Assistance Grant of US$3.8 million from the Department for
International Development (DFID) of the UK government. DFID would also
finance technical assistance for the introduction of VAT up to US$4.1 million.
Project Implementation
8.      The implementation period is five years. A Project Management Unit (PMU)
would be established in the Finance and Planning Department, GOAP. This unit
would be responsible for all interaction between the Bank and GOAP and for
coordination between government departments and other agencies responsible for
project implementation. A key function of the PMU would be to monitor the
progress of policy reforms, fiscal and sector, that are fundamental to the
successful implementation of APERP. Except in the area of financial
management the work of the PMU would be coordination. The executing
departments are all experienced in implementing Bank projects, and (with some
considerable strengthening of these departments) the day-to-day management of
the project components would be in their hands.
Project Sustainability
9.      All components of the project would have significant budgetary
implications both during and after the project period. For example, the
primary education component would increase the number of teachers, salaries of
which need to be paid from the budget after the project is completed. Fiscal
restructuring, particularly expenditure reprioritazation, is therefore an
integral part of the sector investment programs. Expected budgetary savings
from rationalization of staff and the rice scheme, and revenue increase from
strengthening of cost recovery and tax reforms are essential to ensure fiscal
sustainability of the investments the project supports.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the State
- 3 -



10.     Weak implementation capacity has been a common factor for slow
disbursement in a number of Bank projects in AP. Each component of the project
would include substantial training and capacity building to ensure project
sustainability from an institutional point of view.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The project finances largely current expenditure in the social sectors,
operation and maintenance and rehabilitation in the roads and irrigation
sectors, and severance pay associated with public enterprise reform. No
expansion and widening of the irrigation system and road network is included
in the project. The project will also finance some investment in school
buildings and rehabilitation of selected irrigation schemes, but no land
acquisition and resettlement is involved in these activities. Therefore, the
project would not raise any environmental issue and classified as a category C
project.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 19, 1998.
- 4 -



