Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3103 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3103 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association);
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 14, 1998 from the 
State of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Pradesh) describing a program of objectives, policies 
and actions designed to restructure the economy of Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter called 
the Program), and declaring Andhra Pradesh’s commitment to carry out such Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
amount equal to three hundred one million three hundred thousand dollars 
(US$301,300,000) (the Loan);
(D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made;
Page  2
(E)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra 
Pradesh) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to Andhra Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and Andhra Pradesh. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AD” means the Agriculture Department of Andhra Pradesh;
(b)
“Andhra Pradesh Water Tax Act” means the Water Tax Act (No. 11 of 1988), 
as amended;
(c)
“Andhra Pradesh” means the state of Andhra Pradesh of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto;
(d)
“APPVP” means Andhra Pradesh Prathamika Vidya Parishattu, a registered 
society under the Andhra Pradesh Telengana Area Societies Registration Act of Andhra 
Pradesh;
(e)
“Cabinet Sub-Committee on State Level Public Enterprises and Cooperative 
Enterprises” means the Cabinet Sub-Committee constituted by Andhra Pradesh for 
coordinating, approving and providing policy guidance for implementing a program to 
restructure public enterprises and co-operatives of Andhra Pradesh;
(f)
“Central Project Monitoring Unit” means the unit established by Andhra 
Pradesh within its Finance and Planning Department for purposes of coordinating, 
managing, monitoring and evaluating the progress of implementing the Project and the 
Program;
Page  3
(g)
“DPEP Guidelines” means the guidelines adopted by the Borrower in 
April 1993, as amended from time to time, defining its national District Primary 
Education Program;
(h)
“DIET” means District Institute for Education and Training;
(i)
“DPO” means the District Project Office established in each Project 
District under Part A of the Project to carry out day-to-day Project implementation;
(j)
“Farmers Organizations” means Farmers Organizations as defined in Section 
2 (i) of the Andhra Pradesh Farmers Management of Irrigation System Act (Act 11 of 
1997);
(k)
“First Phase Restructuring Program for Public Enterprises and 
Cooperatives” means the first phase of the program of Andhra Pradesh for restructuring 
public enterprises and cooperatives acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(l)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and Andhra 
Pradesh beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the 
following year;
(m)
“Government Order on State Renewal Fund” means the Government Order No. 
25 dated January 27, 1996 issued by Andhra Pradesh, for the establishment of a State 
Renewal Fund;
(n)
“Guidelines for State Renewal Fund” means the Guidelines (Government 
Order No. 429) dated October 8, 1997 issued by Andhra Pradesh for the administration 
of the State Renewal Fund;
(o)
“I&CADD” means the Irrigation and Command Area Development Department of 
Andhra Pradesh;
(p)
“ICDS” means the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme of the 
Borrower as amended from time to time, defining its national program to improve the 
nutritional status of women and children;
(q)
“IEC” means information, education and communication;
(r)
“Implementation Secretariat” means the Secretariat established by Andhra 
Pradesh for implementing the First Phase Restructuring Program for Public Enterprises 
and Cooperative and for preparing the second phase of such program;
(s)
“Industrial Disputes Act” means the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as 
amended, of the Borrower;
(t)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(u)
“MRCs” means Mandal Resource Centers;
(v)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established under the 
relevant laws of the Borrower and Andhra Pradesh;
(w)
“O&M” means operations and maintenance;
(x)
“Participating Country” and “Participating Countries” have the meaning 
set out in paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 of the General Guidelines as modified pursuant 
to Section 1.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(y)
“PRED” means the Panchayat Raj Engineering Department of Andhra Pradesh;
(z)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
Page  4
and Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(aa)
“Project Districts” means the districts in Andhra Pradesh selected by 
Andhra Pradesh in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association for 
implementing Part A of the Project;
(bb)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan of 
Andhra Pradesh and its relevant departments for implementing each of Part A, B, C, D 
E, and F of the Project approved by the Association and the Bank;
(cc)
“RBD” means the Roads and Building Department of Andhra Pradesh;
(dd)
“SCERT” means State Council of Educational Research and Training of 
Andhra Pradesh;
(ee)
“Scheduled Castes” refers to the population groups specified as 
“Scheduled Castes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(ff)
“Scheduled Tribes” refers to the population groups specified as 
“Scheduled Tribes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(gg)
“Socially Disadvantaged Group Children” refers to children who have 
limited access to educational opportunities, including girls, Scheduled Caste, 
Scheduled Tribe and working children and children with mild to moderate learning 
disabilities;
(hh)
“SPO” means the State Project Office,  to be established for the purpose 
of coordinating Project implementation under Part A of the Project;
(ii)
“State Renewal Fund” means the Fund established by Andhra Pradesh under 
the Government Order on State Renewal Fund;
(jj)
“Voluntary Retirement Scheme” means the Scheme dated January 23, 1996 of 
Andhra Pradesh and found satisfactory by the Association and the Bank, setting out, 
inter alia, the criteria, principles and procedures for the payment of compensation to 
surplus employees in connection with the implementation of the First Phase 
Restructuring Program for Public Enterprises and Cooperative Enterprises;
(kk)
“WALAMTARI” means the Water and Land Management Training and Research 
Institute of Andhra Pradesh;
(ll)
“WCRC” means the Water Charges Review Committee established by Andhra 
Pradesh pursuant to Government Order No. 225 dated December 8, 1997; and
(mm)
“WUAs” means Water User Associations established under the Andhra Pradesh 
Farmers Management of Irrigation Systems Act (Act 11 of 1997).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy nine million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR179,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Page  5
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2008 and ending June 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2018 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
Page  6
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Andhra Pradesh to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Andhra Pradesh therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Andhra 
Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Andhra 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this 
Section.
(c)
If and when the Borrower designates Part A of the Project as a centrally 
sponsored scheme, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to such 
Part available on a grant basis to APPVP under a memorandum of understanding to be 
entered into between the Borrower and APPVP satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures be 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
Page  7
audited in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association and the 
Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as 
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to carry out the Program agreed in 
relation to the Project, or a significant part thereof.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Andhra Pradesh will be able to: (i) perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; or (ii) carry out the Program or a significant part 
thereof.
(d)
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to submit to the Association a fiscal 
reform program satisfactory to the Association as referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Section VIII of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)  of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all the conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Andhra Pradesh and is legally binding upon Andhra 
Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin  R. Lim
Country Director
India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
Page  9
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
   Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project
(Education Component):
(a)
Civil works
24,600,000
90%
(b)
Goods, furniture,
11,000,000
100% of local 
equipment, books
expenditures 
(ex-
and materials
factory cost) 
and 80% 
of 
local expenditures 
for other items 
procured 
locally 
(c)
Consultants’
36,000,000
100%
services and
training
(d)
Incremental
21,900,000
80% of local 
operating costs 
expenditures
and incremental
incurred 
until
salaries
March 31, 
2000; 55% of 
expenditures incurred 
until  March 31, 2002; 
and 25% of expenditures 
incurred thereafter 
(2)
Part B of the Project
(Health Component):
(a)
Civil works
7,800,000
 9,900,000
90%
including engineering
services
(b)
Furniture, equipment
4,400,000
 5,680,000
100% 
of local
and supplies
expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost) 
and 80% 
of 
local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally
(c)
Consultants’
2,900,000
 3,750,000
100%
services and
training
(d)
Incremental
4,600,000
 5,870,000
80% of local
operating costs
expenditures
incurred 
until
March 31, 
2001; 55% of 
expenditures incurred 
Page  10
until March 31, 2002; 
and 25% of expenditures 
incurred thereafter
(3)
Part C of the Project
(Nutrition Component):
(a)
Civil works
      12,500,000
 ---------
90%
including
engineering
services
(b)
Goods, equipment,
7,800,000
 ---------
100% of local
vehicles and
expenditures 
(ex-
medicines
factory cost) 
and 80% 
of 
local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally
(c)
Consultants’ ser-  10,800,000
 ---------
100%
vices and training
(d)
Incremental operat- 21,300,000
 ---------
80% of local 
ing costs and 
expenditures
incremental salaries
incurred until
March 31, 
2001;
45% of 
expendi-tures 
incurred until March 
31, 2003; and 30% of 
expenditures incurred 
thereafter
(4)
Part D of the Project
(Road Component):
(a)
Civil works
------
92,000,000
90%
(b)
Goods
------
   500,000
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
80% of local 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(c)
Consultants’
------
 9,100,000
100%
services
(5)
Part E of the Project
(Irrigation Component):
(a)
Civil works
------
88,200,000
90%
(b)
Equipment, 
------
 7,700,000
100% of 
foreign 
materials and 
expenditures, 
100% of 
vehicles
local 
expenditures (ex 
factory cost) and 80% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
purchased locally
Page  11
(c)
Incremental
------
25,300,000
80% through 
operating costs
March 31, 
1999; and 60% 
through March 31, 2000; 
and 0% thereafter
(d)
Consultants’ ------
10,900,000
100%
services 
including NGO
services, training
and studies
(6)
Severance payments under
------
18,300,000
70%
Part F of the Project
(Public Sector Reform
Component):
(7)
Unallocated
   13,800,000
24,100,000
   __________
__________
Total
  179,400,000
      301,300,000
  ===========
      ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental costs of 
operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes, additional buildings, equipment and 
vehicles, and leasing of vehicles, incurred for the purposes of carrying out the 
Project;
(d)
the term “incremental salaries” means the incremental costs of hiring 
additional staff  for purposes of carrying out Parts A and C of the Project; and 
(e)
the term “severance payments” means ex-gratia payments made under the 
Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) excluding payments due to employees under the 
relevant laws of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 15,000,000 from the 
proceeds of the Credit and $30,000,000 from the proceeds of the Loan, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000 and $300,000 respectively; (b) 
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants, 
respectively; (c) training and fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; 
(e) severance pay; and (f) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Andhra Pradesh: (a) to build and 
strengthen institutional capacity in the area of primary education; (b) to improve the 
performance of the primary health care system through improvements in the quality, 
Page  12
effectiveness, and the coverage of services; (c) to improve the nutrition and health 
of young children, women, particularly pregnant and lactating mothers, and adolescent 
girls, by increasing the quality, impact, and cost-effectiveness of the Integrated 
Child Development Services program; (d) to reduce transport costs and transport 
constraints on economic activity, and improve the management of road maintenance, and 
quality of life of rural population in selected districts; (e) to arrest and reverse 
the decline in irrigated area, place the irrigation sector on a sustainable basis 
through involvement of farmers in irrigation management and improved cost recovery, 
and improve the productivity of irrigated agriculture; (f) to reduce the fiscal burden 
of public enterpri
ses and cooperatives by strengthening institutional capacity to design and implement 
public enterprise reforms; and (g) to put state finances on a sustainable path and 
improve the development impact of public expenditure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
District Primary Education Component
1.
Expanding access, particularly for Socially Disadvantaged Group Children, to 
primary education in the Project Districts through:
(a)
Construction of about 6,500 new schools and about 3,500 additional 
classrooms; and
(b)
sanctioning about 13,000 new teaching positions and appointing teachers 
and para teachers.
2.
Increasing the retention rate and improving the learning achievements in primary 
schools through:
(a)
provision of materials, books and workbooks for schools in Project 
Districts;
(b)
provision of continuous in-service teacher training, and supply of 
instructional materials for such training, including state-level development of 
training modules and training for master trainers;
(c)
developing improved learning materials for teachers and students;
(d)
provision of grants to schools, community organizations and individual 
teachers for school improvement, and provision of teaching aides; and
(e)
formulating and implementing innovative approaches to improve primary 
education on a pilot basis, including alternative schools, early childhood education 
and bridge courses for working children, and evaluating and expanding these 
activities.
3.
Improving the capacity to manage primary education by:
(a)
establishing and strengthening state and Project District management 
structures to review and supervise the implementation of state and district investment 
plans and annual work plans and budget; and
(b)
establishing and strengthening state and Project District resource 
institutions for improving primary education.
Part B:
Primary Health Component
1.
Upgrading primary health care services through:
(a)
constructing and/or upgrading about 950 primary health centers; and
(b)
strengthening the effectiveness of clinical, outreach and support 
services through, inter alia, establishment of staffing norms, improving the range of 
quality of services provided, establishment of a system for monitoring improvements in 
Page  13
the quality of clinical care, and provision of training.
2.
Strengthening the capacity to deliver primary health care services through:
(a)
 improving the systems for referral, health management information, 
disease surveillance, and procurement and distribution of materials;
(b)
enhancing the management skills of staff through the establishment of a 
Health Manpower Development Cell, upgrading regional training centers, establishing 
training teams and provision of training; and
(c)
strengthening the management of this part of the Project through the 
establishment of a project management team, a Project Governing Board, a Project 
Implementation Committee, and a District Health Committee in each District except the 
District of Hyderabad.
3.
Enhancing community participation in utilizing primary health care services 
through:
(a)
improving the quality and coordination of the IEC programs of the 
relevant departments of Andhra Pradesh; and
(b)
involving NGOs and local self-government institutions in the delivery of 
outreach services.
Part C:
Integrated Child Development Services Component 
1.
Improving the quality and convergence of ICDS services through the establishment 
of about 2,700 mini-anganwadi centers and improving operations at about 39,000 
anganwadi centers, including provision of drugs at these and other anganwadi centers. 
2.
Strengthening women’s empowerment through training and awareness campaigns for 
adolescent girls, and provision of drugs and a learning course for adolescent girls 
between the ages of 11 and 16 years. 
3.
Expanding ICDS program in about 143 blocks through the provision of civil works, 
staff, equipment, materials and training. 
4.
Establishment of a state level management unit integrated with the existing ICDS 
program and implementing a program of institutional development. 
5.
Establishment of a training-cum-IEC resource center and provision of 
pre-service, in-service and state-specific orientation training for ICDS functionaries 
with enhanced financial norms. 
6.
Carrying out a program of IEC, including organization of communication workshops 
for all levels of functionaries and preparation of materials and media services.
7.
Strengthening the capacity to monitor and evaluate this part of the Project 
through, inter alia, improving the management information system for ICDS operations, 
carrying out operational research on the feasibility of community supported 
supplementary nutrition program, carrying out social assessments, and provision of 
training to ICDS functionaries in the area of participatory rapid appraisal.
Part D:
Roads Component
1.
Carrying out heavy periodic maintenance in: (a) about 1,200 km of selected 
high-traffic volume state highways and major district roads; and (b) selected main 
roads and link roads in three pilot districts.
2.
Improving rural roads through: (a) upgrading about 2,800 km of seasonal roads to 
all-weather standards, including the construction of about 650 drainage works; 
(b) construction of about 35 bridges with spans larger than 30 meters; and (c) 
employment of design and supervision consultants. 
3.
Carrying out routine and periodic maintenance of the core rural road network of 
about 12,500 km in three selected districts. 
Page  14
4.
Improving and strengthening the institutional capacity of PRED through the 
provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and vehicles.
Part E:
Irrigation Component
1.
Improving, in association with farmer organizations, the operation of irrigation 
systems through carrying out:
(a)
minimum rehabilitation works in about 10 major irrigation schemes 
covering about 2.2m ha, and in about 60 medium irrigation schemes covering about 0.3m 
ha; and
(b)
regular maintenance works in about 10 major irrigation schemes covering 
about 2.2 m ha, in about 60 medium irrigation schemes covering about 0.3 m ha, and in 
about 12,300 minor irrigation schemes covering about 1.25 m ha.
2.
Carrying out a pilot program of irrigation system improvement and modernization 
to facilitate the transfer of management and operation and maintenance 
responsibilities to Farmers Organizations through:
(a)
carrying out detailed studies for scheme improvement and canal automation 
including environmental and social impact assessments;
(b)
carrying out system improvements in one medium and part of a major 
irrigation scheme in each of the three regions of Andhra Pradesh covering a total area 
of about 46,750 ha; and
(c)
testing the introduction of canal automation technology in one irrigation 
scheme.
3.
Carrying out a program of irrigated agriculture intensification to increase 
agricultural productivity and water use efficiency in all irrigation schemes through, 
inter alia:
(a)
sourcing and consolidation of irrigated agricultural technology and 
dissemination;
(b)
training and skill development of the staff of AD;
(c)
improving and extending irrigated agricultural practices;
(d)
training and skill development of WUA members;
(e)
on-farm demonstrations; and
(f)
partnership building among farmers and staff of AD and I&CADD.
4.
Strengthening the institutional framework of the irrigation sector through, 
inter alia:
(a)
establishment of a Project Monitoring Unit within I&CADD and a Program 
Implementation Cell in the AD to coordinate and monitor the implementation of this 
part of the Project;
(b)
establishment of a computerized Management Information System within the 
Project Monitoring Unit and a communications system network covering all irrigation 
schemes;
(c)
establishment of a Human Resources Development Unit within WALAMTARI for 
providing training on participatory irrigation management to WUAs, NGOs and staff of 
relevant departments of Andhra Pradesh;
(d)
carrying out studies and surveys, and organizing study tours; and
(e)
provision of technical assistance, equipment and vehicles.
Part F:
Public Enterprise Reform Component 
Page  15
1.
Implementation of the First Phase Program for Restructuring Public Enterprises 
and Cooperative Enterprises, including implementing a Voluntary Retirement Scheme for 
surplus employees of these enterprises and a social safety net program. 
2.
Preparation of the second phase of the program for restructuring the remaining 
public enterprises and selected cooperative enterprises. 
3.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Andhra Pradesh to implement the 
public enterprises restructuring program referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Part through, inter alia, the provision of technical assistance. 
**
* 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories  (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$13,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and $17,000,000 to be withdrawn 
from  the  Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000 and $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals respectively from 
the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $30,000,000 and $35,000,000 respectively. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  16
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account and the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Page  17
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
