Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RLport No. 79 3;
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 750-KE)
JIJNE 29 1989
Industry and Energy OperaLions Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents max' not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kenyan Shilling (F Sh) - 100 cents
FY79: 1 US$ - KSh  7.33
FY80: 1 US$ - KSh  7.42
FY81: 1 USS - KBn  9.05
FY82: 1 US$ - KSh 10.92
FY83: 1 US$ - KSn 13.31
FY84: 1 US$ - KSh 14.41
FY65: 1 US$ - KSh 16.43
FY86: 1 US$ - RSh 16.33
FY87: 1 US$ - KSh 16.89
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DFCK         Development Finance Corporation of Kenya
ICDC          Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB          Industrial Development Bank
IPA          Industrial Promotion Area
KCB          Kenya Commercial Bank
KIE           Kenya Industrial Estates
NBFI         Non-bank Financial Institution
RIDC          Regional Industrial Development Center
FISCAL YEAR (KIE)
July 1 - June 30



MR OFFmCAL t= ONLY
THE WOLD SANK
Was* n.ton. DC 20433
U.S.A.
Ogte di OtnWW.Gf4Wi
Opmaui.. Ewahhlua
June 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya
Small-Scale Industry Proiect (Cr. 750-K)
Attached, for information,        copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Kenya - Small-,-&ie Industry Project (Cr. 750-KE)'
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan
of their official duties. Its tontents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authoiation



FOR OFTFCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 750-UE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......... .  ...............................................             i
BASIC DATA SHEET .iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                               v
I.  INTRODUCTIO!J ...............................................              1
II. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING.                                         2
Financial System.                                                       2
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION.                                         3
IV. UTILIZATION OF THE CREDIT.                                                  5
The Industrial Credit Component.                                        5
Construction Component ...................................              7
Technical Assistance.                                                   8
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT.                                                  9
Management and Organization ......................9  ........           9
Staffing and Training .10
Procedures .11
Appraisals.                                                          11
Supervision and Entrepreneur Training .11
Debt Collection .12
VI. OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION .12
Operations .12
Loan Portfolio .....................                                   14
Finanicial Position .15
Resou0rce Mobilization .17
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TAbLL OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXS
1.  Schedule of Estimated vs. Actual Disbursements .............             23
2.  List of Subprojects Financed ..............     ..    ...............    24
3.  Analysis of Loans in Arrears 1979 to 1987 ..................             28
4.  3volution o  Staffing 1981-1987           ............................   29
5.  Lending Operations 1980-1987 ...............................             30
6.  KIE Industrial Estate Facilities .....         ......................    31
7.  Loan Portfolio Composition as on June 30, 1987 .............             32
8.  Historical Collection Performance .............     .. ...........       33
9.  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets, 1980-1987 .............             34
10.  Actual and Projected Income Statements, 1980-1987 ........ ..            35
11.  Projected and Actual Financial Ratios, 1980-1987 ...........             36
12.  Compliance with Major Covenants ............. .. .............           37
i;.  Resource Ho'ilizatior  .......j............       ...................    38
APPENDIX
Comments Received from the Borrower ........... .. ...........          39



'ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 750-KE)
PREFACE
1.       This Proiect Cnompletion Report  (PCE)  reviews the experience with
Credit 750-KE approved in November 1976, which was the first IDA operation
in support of small-scale industry in Kenya. The US$10 million Credit was
made to the Government of Kenya; the beneficiary was Kenya Industrial
Estates, Ltd. (KIE). a Govertnment-owned corporation charged with promoting,
and providing technical assistance and financing to small-scale industry. A
follow-up Credit (Credit 1738-KE) for US$6.0 million was approved in FY87.
2.       The project was first identified in the early seventies, and was a
component of IDA's strategy to diversify its lending rortfelio from
infrastructure projects towards  th.se  in  directly productive activities.
Project preparation began in 1976, and the project was appraised in
November 1976.   The  Credit  became  effective  in  February 1978, and was
closed in October 1986. 1 Disbursements totalled US$5.1 million. The
remaining US$4.9 million were cancelled, because of IDA's disappointment
with KIE's proposed strategy for dealing with its financial and operational
problems.
3.       The  PCR  was  prepared  by  the  Industry  and  Energy Operations
Division of the Eastern Africa Department and is baaed on information
prepared by KIE and a review of Bank documents related to the project,
including correspondence between KIE and the Bank. A project completion
mission visited KIE in November/December, 1987.
4.       This PCR was read  by  the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, and they are attached
to the Report as an Appendix.
1/ The closing date for subprojects and the industrial estate component was
extended once, until December 31, 1982; diqbursements for technical
assistance continued until October, 1986.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJFCT
(CREDIT 750-KE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
LOAN POSITION
(Amo4nts In USS Million)
As of Apri I $0. 1989
OrLain!t       Disbursed      Concell ed      Repaid    Outntanding
Credit 760-KE              10.0            5.07           4.9U          0.08          4.99
CUiUULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS Million)
FY79    FY8C    FY61    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Appraisal Estimate                 3.60    7.00    9.60   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00
Actual                             0.37    1.18    1.88    2.78    4.10    4.60    4.98    6.07
Actual as X of Appraisal (X)       10.6    16.9    19.6    27.8    41.0    46.0    49.8    60.7
Date of Final Disbursoemnt:       October 24, 1986
PROJECT DATES
Orig.,al             Revised/Actual
First Mention in Fileo                             n.s.                  02/10/72
Board Approval                                     n.o.                  11/22/77
Loan Agreement                                     n.o.                  11/28/77
Effectivoness                                   02/28/78                 06/26/78
Completion of Subloan Commitments               12/31/81                 12/31/82
Loan Closing                                    12/31/62                 09/30/86
5Af F INKITS
(staff soeks)
FM7  FY7   FY7   EM    an8  EY@    EnM  EY@   FM   Inr   EY    FY88  TOTAL
Preappaigal   2C.6    -      -   3.1      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -   29.7
Appraisal       -   0.5      -     -      -     -      -     _      _     _      -     _    0.5
Negotiations    -   7.9      -     -      -     -      -7.9
Swp.rvi.iron    -   19.2  25.2  25.6  34.0  21.1  16.9  13.9  12.4   2.1   1.5  13.1  185.0
1ther         _                                0     0J    .7       4           _.9
Total       28.6  27.6  28.2  28.8  34.1  21.4  17.2  15.6  12.6   2.1   1.5  13.1  220.0



- iv -
MISSION DATA
Month        No. of   Days in  Performance                             Types of
Misslon  Y or          persons  fiold    rating       Trend                      problem_
spr      Nov-D*e. T6      4       20         r/a      n/a           n/.
cpn      Feb. 78          2        1t         2        Improving    mana gmnt, staffing, procedure.
spn      Jan. 79          1        8          2        , -oVIng    management, capitalization,
procedures, staffing
spn      May 79           4       17          2        improving    staffing, procedure., arrears,
capi tallization
*pn      Apr. 80          3       18          a       stationary   profitability
spn      Dec. 80          3       18          2       stationary   capitalization, procedures, ar-ears,
portfolio condition, staffing,
financial manage"nt
spn      Dec. 81          2        8          3       deterior-    profitability, portfolio co.dition,
ating        arrsars, financial managemsnt
spn      Nov. 62          2       13          3       doterior-    profitability, portfolio condition,
sting        arrears, financial manap'ment
-pn      Jun. 83          1        6          3       stationary   profitability, portfolio condition,
arrears
spn      May 6A           2        6          2       stationary   arrears
spn      May 86           2       10          2       n/o           arrears
spn      Mar. 87          2        5          2       n/a           arrears, procedures
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower: Government of Kenya
Executing Agency:  Kenya Industria! Estatos, L d.
Follow-on Proloct:
Konya I.dustrial Estates Second Small-Scale Industry Project
(Credit 1738-KE)
Board Approval: October 21, 1986
Amount:          US88.0 million



-v a
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KNYA
SHALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 750-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i,        Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE)  was  established  in 1978 as an
autonomous institution for providing financing and technical assistance
to small-scale industrial entrepreneurs. Although it expanded rapidly in
its  early  years,  this   expansion   was  accompanied  by  increasingly
disappointing financial performance because of weak project appraisal and
supervision,  and  political  interference.    By  1982,  KIE's portfolio
condition and finanLial performance had deteriorated so sharply that IDA
refused to extend the commitment date for subloans further (para. 2 of
report).
ii.       The Credit was designed  to  support  the transformation of RIE
from a small subsidiary of an existing Government development corporation
(Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation) into an independent
parastatal  providing  a   broad   range   of   services  to  small-scale
entrepreneurs:    credit,  training  and  provision  of  industrial sites
(paras. 9-10 of report).   Commitment3 and disbursements under t' .: Credit
were slow and nearly half the Credit was ultimately cancelled (paras.
13-15 of report). Performance of the subprojects implemented under the
first Credit was mixed, with about 33 percent of the number of proje~_ts
facing major problems or failing (para.  18 of report).  ?roject failures
arose largely because of noor entrepreneur selection, poor management,
working capital shortages and inadequate capitalization (para. 21 of
report). Although the Credit was expected to support the construction of
industrial sites and facilities in over a dozen locations, in reality
only the estate at Eldoret was financed (paras. 23-25 of report).
Feasibility studies submitted to  IDA  for  financing other sites did not
justify their construction on financial and economic gtounds. The Credit
also included a technical assistance component, which financed external
training for KIE 3taff and several expatriate technical advisors (paras.
26-28 of report).
iii.      KIE's institutional development progressed more slowly than had
been  anticipated  at  appraisai.    KIE's  divergent  functions (credit,
training, estate management) and geographic dispersion have proven to be
difficult  to  manage.    KIE  has   not  always  been  able  to  attract
sufficiently good staff and managers while political interference has
meant that the management and Board have not always been able to act



- vi -
independently (para. 29 of report).    KIE  has made some improvements in
its project appraisal function in the past several years, and has
reoriented its approach from preparing projects for prospective clients
to  identifying   experienced   and   committed  entrepreneurs  requiring
financial assistance and other services. While KIE has been an important
source of training to entrepreneurs, project supervision remains weak
(para. 35 of report).   Although collections performance remains low, KIE
has taken several steps to improve its collections and portfolio
management systems  (paras.  36  and  41  of  report).    KIE's financial
condition was poor until 1985 because of losses on the industrial estate
activities, high bad debt provisions and poor collections performance
(paras. 44-46  of  report).    The  implementation  of  a  reform program
begin-ing in 1983 has improved profitability by increasing interct
rates, boosting collections and restructuring KIE's finpncldi base (para.
47 of report).
iv.       The conciusions and lessons learned appear in paras. 52 through
62. At the enterprise level (i.e., KIE), the KIE experience illustrates
the need for strong top- and middle-level managers, solid managemenL
information systems ind good cooperation between field officea and
headquarters  in  a  complex  institution  such  as  KIE.    It  has also
deronstrated the importance of scrutinizing entrepreneurs carefully and
balancing staff energies between new approvals and portfolio supervision
and  collections.    In   its   relationship  with  Government,  KIE  has
encountered direct or indirect interference in its credit decisions and
pursuance of debtors.    At  the  same  time,  KIE  is increasingly under
pressure from Government to be more profitable and self-sufficient.
Moreover, Government has not clearly articulated its strategy for the
development of small-scale enterprises, although it has clearly indicated
that they are to be promoted.   Consequently, a number of programs withi.'
KIE and other institutions have proliferated in recent years, often
duplicating efforts. Government and KIE need to look closely at their
objectives for small enterprise development in Kenya, the current range
of services and programs supporting them, and decide how best KIE could
serve those objectives.
v.        The experience with KIE has  also had important lessons for IDA
staff. Project appraisal was weak, particularly in the important areas
of institutional development and the construction of the industrial
estates. Supervision missions were slow to confront KIE and Government
with the problems of the institution, allowing conditions to deteriorate
so sharply that we ultimately had - cancel a large portion of the
Credit.   WEile  the  cancellation  may  have  provided  some leverage in
developing the consequent reform program supported under the Second
Small-Scala Industries Project it might had been avoided had IDA staff
moved more quickly to improve KIE's collection and project supervision
capabilities. The KIE experience has also demonstrated the importance of
donor  coordination,  particularly   regarding   the   use  of  technical
assistance.



PROJECT COMPLETION I.:PORT
KENYA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 750-RE)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The project was  conceived  as  a  pilot  operation and aimed to
improve the provision of  government  services to small-scale industry by
placing them under KIE, an arm of the Industrial and Commercial Develop-
ment Corporation (ICDC), which previously had been primarily responsible
for promoting and managing industrial estates. Small-scale industry
includes  both  the  modern   small-scale  enterprises  (employing  10-50
workers) and microenterprises and informal sector activities (employing 1
and 10 workers). The primary objective of the project was to establish
KIE as an autonomous institution and strengthen it so that it would be
able to provide financing and technical assistance to the small-scale
entrepreneur, in addition to carrying out its industrial estate activi-
ties. KIE began operations as an autonomous institution in 1978, and
expanded rapidly ir, its first five years of operations to become the
principal source of financing and technical assistance to the small
entrepreneur. The expansion, however, was accompanied by growing finan-
cial difficullies owing to poor project appraisal and supervision and
weak collections rest tiang both from the inexperience of KIE staff and
from political interference in decisions relating to lending and collec-
tions, the Government transfer of ICDC's doubtful portfolio without com-
pensating KIE for it,   and inadequate financial support from Government,
which had been expected to provide subsidies in the form of adminis-
trative grants to KIE in its early years as an autonomous institution.
2.       By 1981, the  condition  of  KIE's  portfolio  and its financial
situation had deteriorated sharply, and IDA informed KIE that substantial
improvements would be required in the areas of project selection and
tinancial management if IDA were to continue supporting KIE. IDA agreed
to one externsion of the comnmitment authority under the line of credit for
small-scale industry--from December 31, 1981 to December 31, 1982--but
refused further extensions. Disbursements under the technical assistance
component, however,  continued  until  1986.    Other donors shared IDA's
concerns over KIE performance and refused further lendiag until KIE took
steps to improve its portfolio and finances. In the 1982-85 period, KIE,
in consultation with IDA, embarked on an important reform program. An
expatriate financial manager was appointed, and with the support of KIE
management, reformed financial policies and procedures; KIE was reorga-
nized with the primary objective of improving the project appraisal and
supervision functions, and finally, the Government agreed to a financial
restructuring program designed by KIE and supported by IDA. As a result,
KIE's pe-rformance and financial situation improved significantly, and IDA
agreed to provide further support under a Second Small-Scale Industry
Project. The incumbent managing director was a key factor in the imple-
mentation of the reform program. The new managing director, appointed in
1986, has limited development banking experience, but confirmed her
intention to continue the  reform  program  initiated by her predecessor;
unfortunately results so far have been disappointing, as KIE collections
and arrears have again deteriorated during the past two years.



-2-
II. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING
3.       The industrial  sector  has  been  the  fastest  growing  of the
economy since Independence; its share in GDP increased from 8? in 1964 to
18S in 1985, and employment more than tripled, increasing from 60,000 in
1966 to 193,000 in 1984. Value added in the modern small-scale irdustries
grew at an average annual rate of 132 in real terms in the 1977-1987
period, and its contribution to total value added increased from 12Z in
1976 to 20? in 1985.
4.       Until  the  early   eighties,   Government's  strategy  for  the
industrial sector aimed to promote rapid growth in order to ease the
balance of payments pressure, generate employmsnt and promote indigenous
participation in the sector. This strategy was supported by high levels
of protection, an overvalued exchange rate, subsidized interest rates,
and direct government involvement in industry. Small-scale enterprises
provided good opportunities for increasing indigenous participation and
employment  in  the  sector.        Government  has  supported  small-scale
enterprises through credit and technical assistance, reserving some
product lines to it, and its products are not price controlled. In
addition, small encerprises benefit from lack of enforcement of sales and
income taxes, social security payments, or safety standards, minimum
wages and lower municipal taxes.
5.       As  the  possibilities  for  investment  in  import substitution
activities became  more  limited  in  recent  years,  the  Government has
advocated a reduction of protection, and given greater emphasis to export
promotion and private sector  development.    Strategies oriented to meet
these objectives are included in the Fourth and Fifth Development Plans
(1978-1983 and 1983-1988). In practice, however, the Government accorded
priority to financial stabilization, leaving these structural adjustments
aside. Many of the stabilization policies had a positive impact in
industrial  efficiency:    exchange  rate  flexibility  and  devaluation,
positive real interest rates, decline in real wages and more recently,
some liberalization of imports. The-e policies have not yet changed the
sector's structure, due to the short time that has elapsed since their
adoption.    Further  reforms  are  required  to  achieve  the structural
transformation into an outward-looking sector, capable of exporting to
neighboring countries and world markets. An industrial sector adjustment
program, which includes liberalization of the import licensing system,
rationalization  and  simplification   of   the   tariff  system,  export
incentives, and price liberalization is being developed and put in place
in close collaboration with the Bank.
Financial System
6.       By  Sub-Saharan  Africa  standards,  Kenya  has  a  diverse  and
sophisticated financial system.  The  sector  includes a central bank, 23
commercial banks, 52  non-bank  financial  institutions (NBFIs), a postal
savings bank, a social security system, numerous insurance companies and
pension planis, a small  stock  exchange  and  over 900 savings and credit



cooperatives.   Six  development  finance  institutions  operate in areas
where commercial banks and NBFI's have traditionally not operated,
particularly term lending to industrial and commercial enterprises. In
addition to  KIE,  the  Government  owns  the  Industrial  and Conercial
Development Corporation (ICDC), the Industrial Development Bank (IDB),
and the Kenya Tourist Development Corporation. The Government also has
shares in the East African Development Bank and the Development Finance
Company of Kenya (DFCK), which is privately-controlled.
7.       Historically,  small  enterprises  have  had  little  access  to
commercial sources  of  credit  in  Kenya.    Commercial  banks have been
reluctant to provide financing to such enterprises because (i) interest
rate ceilings have prevented them from charging high rates to small
enterprises, which thev perceive to be higher risk and higher cost
operations; (ii) small enterprises rarely have real property to offer as
collateral; and (iii) the banks have had little experience with project
lending. Until the late seventies, ICDC was the main source of term
financing for small-scale  industry.    After  establishing KIE, ICDC has
continued to lend to small enterprises, but has emphasized traders and
services. In addition, the Kenya Commercial Finance CorpoLation of the
Government-owned Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) operated a pilot program for
small and medium-scale industries in conjunction with IWC and USAID. The
Small Enterprise Finance Corporation of DFCK also aims at the same type
of entrepreneur as KIE. Recently, three commercial banks, including KCB,
have begun to support rural industries and the informal sector (with
TJSAID financing). The rural industries program lends for fairly large
projects, while the informal sector program is providing mostly working
capital financing against production orders (because of the guarantees
required by the commercial banks).
8.       KIE  was  originally  established  in  1967  as  a  wholly-owned
subsidiary of ICDC. Its main objective was the development of Kenyan
African  entrepreneurship  through   the   establishment  of  small-scale
industries, and its main activity was the development and management of
industrial estates for these  industries.    In  1978, in connection with
IDA's  Small-Scale  Industry  Project,   KIE   was  made  an  independent
parastatal wholly owned by the Government, and its functions were changed
as described below.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
9.       The project, a  pilot  operation,  was  the  first  in Africa to
combine technical assistance and financing in one institution, in order
to provide services to the sma'l entrepreneur more efficiently. The
project's main objective and justification was to establish KIE as an
independent institution and strengthen it to assume responsibility for
the development of small-scale industry  in  Kenya.   IDA staff felt that
retaining KIE within ICDC might expose it to more political influence and
would not give KIE the flexibility it needed to implement its ambitious
program of small-scale industrial credit and other services. KIE needed
to be reorganized and its functions expanded to include promotion of
small-scale industry, provision of credit and technical assistance to
small-scale entrepreneurs, and development and management of industrial
estates.



10.      To  achieve  these  objectives,  the  project  included  credit,
construction and technical ass1stance components. The line of credit
(US$8.75 million equivalent) would provide financing for machinery,
permanent working capital and buildings (the latter in the case of
ente.ptises located off the estates) to assist the entrepreneurs in
est.'lishing themselves successfully. The project was expected to provide
fi.iancing for (i) some 30 relatively large projects (average loan size
US$200,000) located outside the industrial estates, (ii) some 190 small
projects (average loan size Ut$12,00"; to be located in small estates
(Industrial Promotior. Areas (IPA's)), also to be financed under the
Credit and (iii) 12 large projects to be located in the Eldoret
Industrial Estate, the seccnd phase of which would also be financed under
the Credit.   The  civil  works  component  included  construction of the
second phase of the Eldoret Industrial Estate, the first phase of which
was financed by KIE, and construction of some 150 workshops in 10 IPAs
located in the rural areas and some 40 workshops in two IPAs in Nairobi.
The technical assistance component (US$0.8 million equivalent) included
financing for 12 manyears of expert services in the areas of financial
management; promotion, preparation and appraisal of projects; promotion,
training and development of entrepreneurs and technical matters relating
to the industrial estates and industrial promotion areas. In addition,
funds were made available for the training of KIE staff.
11.      The Government, also  the  Borrower  for  the Credit, onlent the
funds for the credit and construction components tc KIE at an interest
rate of 6Z per annum for a period of 15 years, including three years of
grace.   Funds  for  technical  assistance  weLe  transferred  to KIE, as
needed, on a grant basis.   The Government bore the foreign exchange risk
for  the  credit,  without  a  fee.    In  accordance  with  KIE's Policy
Statement, prepared in consultation with IDA, YIE was ts lend for
subprojects at interest rates of lOZ-llZ, depending on the size of the
project. Interest rates were in line with prevailinig rates at the time.
KIE was expected to finance 80Z of total subproject cost (65Z IDA
resources and 152 of its own resources), with the remaining 20Z provided
by the entrepreneur.
12.      The main project  risks  identified  at  appraisal were that KIE
would be unable to hire the large number of qualified professionals
required for its expansion and that KIE would be unable to achieve
financial autonomy. With regard to staffing, the appraisal stated that
KIE was to review its salary structure to enable it to attract qualified
personnel and would develop training programs to upgrade its staff. On
the institutional side, it was assumed that the policies adopted by KIE
would provide it with reasonable prospects for success. Tne potential
difficulties associated with combining credit and technical assistance
functions in one institution were discussed within the Bank during
project preparation, but the issue was not raised at the appraisal stage.



- 5 -
IV. UTILIZATION OF THE CREDIT
The Industrial Credit Component
13.      KIE committed US$4.0  million  of  the US$8.75 million allocated
for subprojects over a period of five years (appraisal estimate was four
years). The commitment authority was extended once, from December 31,
1981 to December 31, 1982; IDA did not agree to a second extension
because KIE finances had deteriorated in the wake of lax entrepreneur
selection and debt  collection  procedures.    KIE  was  able to continue
funding projects after the IDA closing date with funds from Government
and other donors.
14.      Disbursements  lagged  considerably  with  respect  to appraisal
estimates, although remained consistent with regional experience with
other development finance institution  projects.   The delays reflect the
slow rate of commitment in the early years of the project: by December
31, 1982, KIE had committed only about 30Z of available funds (estimate
based  on  approval  figures).        The   slow  rate  of  commitment  and
disbursements can be attributed to several factors. First, the appraisal
overestimated KIE's appraisal  capabilities  at  the  outset.   A related
problem was that KIE had not lent outside the estates prior to 1977, and
it took  time  to  develop  a  project  pipeline.    Second,  the project
implementation schedule seems to have assumed (not explicitly stated)
that construction of the second phase of Eldoret and of the IPAs would
begin shortly after credit effectiveness  and that credit for projects to
be located in these facilities would be required in the second year of
the project.    The  construction  program  was  considerably delayed and
reduced: in the end, the Eldoret estate was the only facility built.
Third, the average loan size was smaller than anticipated at appraisal;
consequently, KIE approved 407 more projects than had been anticipated,
resulting in increased  processing  time.    Also  affecting  the rate of
disbursements  of  the  IDA   credit   were   the  delays  in  requesting
reimbursements from the Government (who requested reimbursements from
IJA)  due  to  KIE's  lack   of   experience  with  the  procedures,  and
Government's delays in processing applications.   The 10OZ devaluation of
the Kenyan shilling during the disbursement period also had an effect on
IDA's expenditures under the credit.   Annex 1 gives projected and actual
disbursements under the credit.
15.      The appraisal estimated that  the  IDA credit would finance some
42  large  loans   averaging   US$200,000   (representing   some  94Z  of
commitments) and some 190 small  loans averaging US$12,000. KIE approved
114 loans. The actual loans ranged in size from US$1,431 to US$338,549,
and  averaged  US$34,000.       About   82z   of  the  loans,  representing
approximately 40Z of total commitments, were for less than US$50,000.
KIE approved 7 loans in excess of the free limit of US$125,000
(accounting for 34Z of total commitments) and 3 loans in excess of
US$200,000. The smaller size of loans approved conforms better with the
actual  capabilities  of  the   entrepreneurs   than  did  the  appraisal
estimates.



- 6 -
16.      Total cost for  the  114  subprojects  totalled US$ 5.9 million,
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$ 13.7 million. The difference
results primarily from the closure of the credit component and the
Qc,aluation of the Ker-an Shilling. IDA financed about 682 of total
project costs, in line with appraisal estimates. The interest rate
charged was 112, in line with KIE's policy statement agreed to with IDA
(no specific interest rate covenant in loan documents). KIE's interest
rates, as most interest rates in Kenya, were negative in real terms in
the late seventies and early eighties due to the high rates of inflation.
Since 1982, declining inflation made interest rates positive. However,
when Government began to increase lending rates in the early 19808, KIE
did not initially raise its interest rates thereby conferring a subsidy
on KIE-funded enterprises. Interest rates on KIE loans were increased ir.
July 1984.
17.      Under the project, KIE was  expected to give preference to small
entrepreneurs (with assets of less than KSh 1 million) and to projects
located off the estates and in the rural areas, and the subprojects
funded under the Credit appear to have met these objectives. About 712 of
the subprojects were new ventures. Some 642 were owner-managed, and most
owners were new to business management and ownership. A large proportion
of the enterprises financed under the Credit were located in small towns
or in the rural areas (about 70Z), and the vast majority--some 93z-- were
located off industrial estates.   The  projects  in small towns and rural
areas were considerably smaller than those located in Nairobi (about one
third as large). Over 802 of the IDA subprojects were in l;bor-intensive
manufacturing activities or services, in line with appraisal objectives.
Food industries (consisting primarily of bakeries and grain mills) were
by far the largest category, accounting for 372 of the total, followed by
clothing, which accounted  for  152  of  the  total.    Annex 2 lists the
subprojects  approved  under  the   Credit   and  gives  their  principal
characteristics.
18.      The performa.-ce of the IDA-financed subprojects can be evaluated
on the basis o;. KIE's quarterly assessment of its portfolio which
classifies projects into four categories (A through D), primarily on the
basis of the arrears of the companies.    As of June 30, 1987, 342 of the
number of projects in the IDA-financed portfolio were problem-free; 342
faced minor problems which could be resolved with technical assistance;
232 faced major problems requiring iegai action, and 1OZ had failed.
Projects which were problem free or faced minor problems accounted for
742 of total commitments.   Overall, subproject performance under the IDA
credit was relatively good considering that the loans were made at a time
when KIE was being reorganized, had inexpei.ienced staff in project
appraisal, and were predominantly made to small entrepreneurs who had not
owned businesses before.    Indeed,  had  KIE  approved  the larger loans
originally envisaged at appraisal, it is likely that the portfolio
performance would have been worse.
19.      The data available  to  the  project completion mission confirms
KIE's view that projects located in smaller towns and the rural areas did
better than those located in Nairobi (82Z of the problem-free projects
were located outside Nairobi), and that the very small projects (loans of
uinuer $10,000) fared  considerably  better  than  the average. Generally,



small projects are easier for KIE to appraise and entrepreneurs to
manage, and projects in the rural areas are less subject to political
interference than larger projects and projects in big cities.
20.      KIE does not routinely  collect  economic  and financial data on
its  subprojects,  reflecting   supervision   problems  discussed  below.
However, an ex-post evaluation based on a survey of all firms financed by
IDA was carried out in 1984, prior  to the appraisal of the second credit
to KIE.   These  data  show  that  some  800  jobs were created by 65 IDA
subprojects for  which  information  was  available  at  a  cost of about
US$3,600, compared to US$5,600 for the entire KIE portfolio, and slightly
below the appraisal estimate of some US$4,000 per job (all figures in
1984 prices).
21.      The main reasons for subproject  failures were identified by KIE
and IDA in the course of project supervision, and was confirmed in a
review of a sample of 21 firms conducted by KIE staff as background for
this report. The sample included projet'e rated in all four categories
in KIE's classification. Five firms faced no difficulties, and 16 firms
faced varying degrees of problems.   Of the 16 firms facing difficulties,
8 faced managerial problems that could probably have been identified at
appraisal, and another 4 faced working capital shortages resulting either
from inadequate capitalizatior at the outset or inadequate financial
management after startup, also difficulties which could have been
foreseen at appraisal.   The  remaining companies faced problems relating
to cc Detition from abroad (two firms); inadequate machinery (one firm)
and raw material shortages (one firm).
22.      It is not possible  to  forecast  with precision the losses that
KIE will sustain as a result of the performance of the projects financed
under the IDA credit. KIE has written off a small amount (US$2,000),
representing the losses  incurred  in  one  project  after deducting  the
proceeds from  the  sale  of  land,  plant  and  equixment  which are the
underlying guarantees for each  project.    KIE estimates that another 27
projects will be written off (all projects  in D category and some in C).
The write-offs required are likely  to  be  less than the provisions made
for these projects (US$250,000).
Constru!ction Component
23.      The project  provided  US$450,000  for  the  construction of the
second phase of the Eldoret industrial estate (the first phase of which
was financed by KIE) and about 150 workshops to be built in 12 other
IPAs.   KIE  distinguishes  between  three  types  of industrial estates:
industrial estates, which are the largest and in large cities and towns;
regional industriai  development  centers  (RIDCs),  that  are moderately
sized facilities; and, Industrial Promotion Areas (IPAs), which are small
facilities in rural areas.    The  Eldoret  project  is located in a rich
agricultural area, and had originally been prepared with Danish technical
assistance; DANIDA subsequently decided not to finance it at a late
stage. The location of the proposed IPAs is not given in the appraisal
report. This component was not carefully evaluated at appraisal, was



supervised only once  by  technical  speclal'sts  from  IDA, and was only
partly implemented.
24.      The second phase of  the  Eldoret  Estate  was built three years
behind appraisal estimates.    The  main  reason  for  the  delay was the
shortage of water in the estate, which was not considered a problem at
the time of appraisal.    Assurances  had  been given by t-ie municipality
that adequate water would be available; however, due to the rapid growth
of some large industries and new residential areas, a water shortage
developed in 1978.   The  municipality carried out additional investments
to ensure the supply of water, but the works were not completed until
1980. The appraisal report does not include a breakdown of costs by
year. However, estimates prepared for this report indicate that the cost
of  the  expansion,   excluding   inflation   (base  cost  plus  physical
contingency) was more than double the appraisal estimate. In addition,
the price contingencies (9Z in 1978-79 and 82 thereafter) also proved too
low. The foreign exchange cost financed by IDA amounted to US$0.31
million, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$0.13 million. Annex 3
gives details of the base cost calculations. The appraisal report does
not include an analysis on the profitability of the industrial estates
operating at that time (Nairobi and Nakuru) nor of expected returns of
the investments proposed under  the  project.    The  Eldoret Estate as a
whole is now showing a small operating profit.
25.      IDA did not finance any  workshops  in IPAs (the funds allocated
to the  IPAs  were  used  to  finance  several  studies).    In 1980, KIE
requested that IDA finance IPAs at Kericho and Kitale (Eldoret Region)
Narok (Nakuru Region)  and  Dandora,  outside  Nairobi.   IDA indicated a
willingness to consider their financing provided that KIE prepared
feasibility studies demonstrating their econoric justification, submitted
a satisfactory subproject pipeline, and gave assurances that qualified
staff would be assigned to the  facilities.   The reports prepared by KIE
did not justify the construction of the IPAs, and KIE financed the
construction of the Kericho IPA with its own resources. Kericho only
became operational in 1985, and is currently operating at a deficit.
Technical Assistance
26.      Even though institution building  was  the main objective of the
project, the details of the initial reforms to be introuuced and the
technical assistance and training programs to support the reforms were
not  worked  out  at  appraisal.    The  project  included  financing for
expatriate  technical   assistance   in   financial  management,  project
promotion and  appraisal  and  entrepreneur  training.    A  part  of the
technical assistance component of the Credit was also used to engage
consultants to undertake studies on the management of KIE's industrial
estates,  and  the  introduction   of   computerization.    In  spite  of
difficulties, the technical assistance contributed to improving KIE
capabilities, especially in financial management.
27.      The appraisal mission had  initially recommended the appointment
of an expatriate financial manager to be financed under the IDA Credit,
but subsequently it was decided that a qualified Kenyan should be
appointed as financial manager, and that IDA would finance an expatriate



- 9 -
advisor. The Government then informed IDA that it preferred to use grant
funds to finance the technical assistance component of the project and
IDA agreed.   The  first  financial  manager  was  recruited by UNIDO and
financed by UNDP.   He  stayed  at  KIE  for  a  year, but had difficulty
establishing good working relations with KIE management and staff.
However, KIE's financial  performance  had deteriorated considerably, and
it  became  apparent  that  KIE  had  not  succeeded  in  establishing an
effective financial management system and had not adopted financial
policies and practices conducive  to  strict  financial discipline.  IDA,
therefore, insisted that a  qualified  financial  manager be appointed as
part of an action program to improve KIE finances, and agreed to finance
him under the Credit.    IDA  financed  a  financial advisor to assist in
project financial analysic who  contributed considerably to strengthening
the financial appraisal capabilities, and an ILO expert to assist with
training.    GTZ  also  financed  a  financial  advisor  who  assumed the
functions of financial manager and remained at TIE until 1983. In
addition an expatriate financial manager financed by IDA began work in
October 1982 and, with the support of KIE management, has succeeded in
establishing sound financial policies and procedures and in instilling a
better sense of financial  discipl4.ne.    Although the performance of the
expatriate financial manager has been outstanding, the long-term success
of this technical assistance will depend to some exto,nt on the technical
level and authority given to the Kenyan successor. In fact, it took KIE
nearly three years to appoint a counterpart financial manager, who joined
KIE in December 1987.    KIE's  low  level  of salaries was the principal
reason for the delay.
28.      Under the Credit, 13 KIE  staff  went outside Kenya for training
in a  variety  of  fields,  including  financial management, entrepreneur
development, and accounting.   In  addition,  a project management course
was organized in  Kenya  for  KIE  senior  staff.   The training courses,
especially on project management for senior staff, were useful in
improving certain skills, although more could have been done in this
area. IDA supervision missions recognized the need to set up a trpining
system for KRE, although this was not accomplished (see para. 32).
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Management and Organization
29.      KIE's Board has consisted  of civil servants and representatives
ff t.he  private  Fctor.    At  present,  the  Board  includes  two civil
servants, two university professors, one of  whom is the chairirian of KIE,
and two representatives of the private sector, neither of whom is a
banker.   Day-to-day  operations  are  the  responsibility  of a managing
director.  KIE has had two  managing  directors since the approval of the
first credit. The previous managing director served between 1977 and
1986, and was instrumental both in expanding KIE and in introducing a
reform program  to  strengthen  the  institution.    The present managing
director, a lawyer, has stated her intention to continue the reform
program started by her predecessor. KIE's management and Board generally
work well together; however, KIE has at times received conflicting



- 10 -
signals from Government regarding its operations, i.e., pressure to
become more profitable while loans to politicians remain unpaid. KIE's
managing director and all Eoard members are appointed by the Minister of
Industry.   Partly  as  a  result  of  this,  iIE  has  been subjected to
political interference from its inception, and the management and Board
have not always had sufficient autonomy in project approvals, and in debt
and rental  collection.    KIE's  divergent  functions (credit, training,
estate management) and geographic dispersion have proven to be very
challenging to manage.   Unfortunately  KIE  has  not always been able to
attract good managers (because of low pay), and managerial quality varies
considerably. Similarly, KIE has experienced a relatively high level of
staff turnover, as shown in Annex 4.
30.      The  organizational  structure  adopted  at  the  time  of KIE's
creation was  discussed  with  IDA,  and  aimed  to  decentralize  KIE by
establishing a regional network, essential to KIE's expanded role. KIE
had three dopartments at headquarters (projects, technical assistance and
finance). Industrial estate operations were placed under the regional
managers. A Technical Review Committee consisting of senior managers was
created in  1984  to  review  larger  loans;  the  committee  is still in
operation and has tightened criteria for project approvals. In 1984, KIE
was reorganized after consultations with IDA with the primary objective
of strengthening the appraisal and supervision functions. Excessive
attention to appraisals resulted in inadequate project follow-up. The
new organizational structure is better suited to KIE's varied functions:
KIE now consists of nine departments, including three lending operations
departments (appraisals, implementation, and supervision and entrepreneur
training); two small departments for industrial estate is i technical
service center activities, and four administrative and financial support
departments (personnel, finance, legal and internal audit). In addition,
eight regional managers report to senior management. While the present
organizational structure may provide too wide a span of control for the
managing  director,  it   has   appropriately   given  more  emphasis  to
implementation, supervision and training.
Staffing and Training
31.      KIE staff doubled between 1977  and 1981, increasing from 200 to
402.  It had increased  to  512  by  end-1987.   Most of the higher level
staff have experience in the provision of technical assistance, hut
limited  experience  in  credit,   making  it  problematic  to  introdLce
development banking practices in  KIE.    KIE  had  found it difficult to
recruit  and  retain  qualified   staff  because  of  its  classification
(assigned to it before 1977) which gave it a lower salary and grade
structure than other parastatal development and commercial banks with
which KIE competes for staff.   The issue was raised during the appraisal
of the first credit. although there is no evidence that IDA tried to
change the situation at  that  time.    In  the discussions of the second
credit,  IDA  attempted  to  obtain   a  commitment  f-om  Government  to
reclassify KIE and enable it to modify its salsry structure. At that
timp, the Government indicated that it wished to review the matter in the
context of a general review of the salary structure for government



- 11 -
enterprises.    The  Go,.ernment  has  subsequently  reclassified  E.IE and
improved pay scales will be arolicable to KIE staff with effect from July
1, 1989. Annex 4 summarizes the evolution of KIE staffing.
32.      KIE has given priority to  upgrading its staff, and has received
considerable external assistance for this purpose. However, KIE does not
yet have a systematic staff training program based on an assessment of
needs. Training has largely been conducted on an ad hoc basis depending
on the perception and bias of each donor, and efforts by KIE and other
donors to coordinate have been unsuccessful.
Procedures
33.      During project appraisal  and  supervision,  KIE  and IDA worked
together to improve KIE's procedures, as discussed below.
34.      Appraisals.    IDA  staff  carefully  reviewed  the  quality  of
appraisals during project supervision.   In its early years of operation,
KIE appraisals were weak in most respects, due in part to the acute
shortage of  qualified  staff.    It  also  reflected  KIE's  practice of
preparing projects for entrepreneurs and the attitude of KIE's managemer,t
and staff :hat KIE's objective was to help Kenyan entrepreneurs, and that
this objectiv2 took precedence over  the  quality  of the project and the
qualifications of the entrepreneur.   KIE,  with IDA assistance, has done
much to improve the quality of its appraisals (in 1981, IDA informed KIE
that such improvements were conditions for further association with KIE).
KIE has revised its project appraisal criteria and enforced them more
strictly, established a Technical Review Committee, and stopped preparing
projects for entrepreneurs.   In  addition,  KIE staff have changed their
attitude  towards  clients:    they  are  now  choosing  more experienced
entrepreneurs and recognize that not all projects can be financed.
Weaknesses still remain in the appraisal work, especially in the areas of
marketing, in the analysis of the sponsor's managerial and financial
capabilities to implement the project, and in the evaluation of the
economic  impact  of  projects  (IDA   did  not  emphasize  tiLe  economic
evaluation of projects during the supervision of the project). Recently,
KIE has created a Credit Control Unit in Lhe Finance Department, which
will look more carefully at the creditworthiness of prospective loan
applicants.
35.      Supervision  and  Entrepreneur  Training.         KIE  has  not  yet
developed an adequate system of project supervision or of entrepreneur
training.   It has not  clearly defined the type of supervision required,
as it gets different signals from its various donors. As part of its 1984
reorganization, KIE established two departments to provide support to
clients after credit approval. The original structure combined appraisal
and supervision work, and resulted in the neglect of supervision.
Project staff generally  preferred  to  prepare  new projects rather than
work on loan collection, monitoring and supervision tasks. Under the new
structure,  one  department,  set   up  for  project  implementation,  is
responsible for assisting entrepreneurs in expediting administrative
requirements for the signing of KIE loans, dealing with suppliers and
providing routine support for installation of plant and equipment. A
second department assigned to supervision and entrepreneur training, will



- 12 -
focus on regular project site visits and training of entrepreneurs.
Supervision remains the primary responsibility of the regional offices.
The new structure should enable KIE to improve these services provided
once the systems are  in  place.    Until  now, h-wever, regional offices
continue to carry out supervision in a sporadic fashion, frequently in
connection with debt collection. Only when projects face serious arrears
does KIE prepare action plans for individual projects at headquarters.
KIE has provided considerable support to entrepreneurs in the form of
short-term courses (some 85 courses attended by over 1,000 entrepreneurs
have been offered since 1982), although the policy guidelines for the
training of entrepreneurs have not yet been developed. In addition to
the courses, over  the  past  ten  years,  a  large  number of expatriate
advisors (including teams from UNIDO and ILO) have provided assistance to
entrepreneurs.  This  assistance,  which  has been of uneven quality, has
not  always  provided  uniform  messages  to  entrepreneurs;  indeed  the
messages sometimes contradicted  KIE  policy  (some  of the advisors, for
instance, persuaded entrepreneurs not to  repay  their loans).  Under the
second  credit,  IDA   is   financing   expatriate  deputy  managers  for
supervision, and for entrepreneur trninin6, who will help establish
supervision and training systems and coordinate external assistance.
36.      Debt  Collection.    Debt  collection  procedures  have received
considerable attention from Bank supervision missions. Beginning from a
very poor base, debt collection procedures have improved over the years.
The collection function was transferred to the regional managers in
August 1984, and  a  Chief  Debt  Collectox  appointed  to  head a credit
control division  at  headquarters.    A  more  regular and comprehensive
system of tracking collections and arrears was also instituted, with IDA
assistance. The follow-up for problem projects has been assigned to the
Legal Department with the assistance of the credit control division. In
addition, IDA financed a study and the installation of microcomputers at
KIE, to improve the accounting systems and provide better management
reports on portfolio performance.   These were positive developments, and
has contributed to an increased awareness of the collection problem among
KIE staff. However, the implementation of improved procedures remains a
problem, mainly iue to the  difficulty  of retaining trained staff in the
Legal Department.
VI. OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Operations
37.      As of June 30, 1987,  KIE's   portfolio includes 1,112 loans and
two equity investments. The total includes 31 of the 68 loans KIE
inherited from ICDC.   The  IDA  portfolio  represented  about 1OZ of the
total number of loans and 17Z of the loans outstanding. The appraisal
report does not provide sufficient details for projected operations to
make comparisons with actual performance.    Loan approvals in real terms
increased rapidly in 1977-81, but remained constant between 1981 and
1984, reflecting KIE's past financial difficulties and the initiation of
the restructuring program to correct these. Approvals declined sharply
in 1985 due to a KIE decision to consolidate its position by improving



- 13 -
internal procedures and policies, and concentrating on collections.
Approvals in real terms increased by 32Z in 1986 and 1987 from the
average of the  two  preceding  years.    KIE  has  had  large amounts of
uncommitted approvals, because of the difficulties clients have had with
fulfilling conditions for loan signing, particularly the deposit or the
required contribution to  the  project.    In 1987, uncommitted approvals
represented about one and a half year's approvals. Delays in commitments
have  been  the  principal  reason   for  the  delays  in  disbursements.
Approvals have been reduced since 1987 both by tightening appraisal
requirements, and by cancelling a significant share of uncommitted
approvals. Annex 5 shows KIE approvals, commitments, ana disbursements
for the period 1980-1987.
38.      About 82Z of KIE approvals (8a8  of the number of loans approved)
were for manufactaring industries; about 3Z of approvals (2Z in terms of
numbers) were for mining and quar-yJng enterprises and some 15? (10Z of
the number) for activities in the se:.vice sector. Average loan size in
real terms remained constant between1 1981 and 1984. Loan size declined
substantially after 1984, in part due te KIE's decision to finance
smaller enterprises which had proven more successful in the past.
However, the aggregate figures also reflect a significant increase in
informal  sector  operations.    KIE  has  been  providing  financing for
microenterprises since 1984 under a pilot program financed by Sweden (136
loans for  some  US$60,000).    In  addition,  in    1987  it approved 62
microenterprise loans for some US$30,000 out of its own resources.
39.      During the project  implementation  period,  KIE scaled down its
construction  operations.    Expenditures  for  the  large  estates  were
completed in 1983, and expenditures on construction in 1986 were l.imited
to the completion of two small IPAs. KIE implemented the construction -f
the industrial estate facilities efficiently, although the program
represented a drain on KIE resources in the first half of the eighties.
Principal reasons for the poor financial performance were low occupancy
rates, below-market rental rates, and poor location, although poor rental
collection and weak management also contributed to the losses. Given the
poor operating results of the estates, ID. required, in connection with
its second project, that KIE (i) build no new industrial estates unless
they are supported by a feasibility study which demonstrates their
financial viability; and (ii) sell or lease 12 technical service centers
which  ooerated  in  the  estates.    KIE  is  in  compliance  with these
covenant,. KIE has never charged rents that are higher thani the 1oilg run
marginal cost of facilities.   There  has been considerable opposition in
Government and within KIE to increases in rental rates. In addition, the
methodology for calculating the long run marginal cost of facilities was
not spelled out at appraisal. In 1985, IDA agreed to fund a study which,
among other things, spelled out the methodology. KIE increased rental
rates in 1988, and further increases have been approved with effect from
July 1989. The new rates will be close to the rates reccmmended in the
IDA-financed study, although they will continue to be below market rates.
40.      The financial performance of  the  estates has improved over the
past three years. The estates showed a profit of some US$150,000 or 3Z
of total profits of KIE in 1986-87.   The turnaround is attributed to the
increase in occupancy (from 61Z in 1983/84 to 83Z in 1986/87) and to the



- 14 -
fact that the Government has taken over the debt service tor the
construction of the facilities (see para.  47).   It can be expected that
the financial performance of the estates will continue to improve as
occupancy rates and  rental  rates  are  increased.    Annex  6 shows the
profitability of each of the KIE facilities.
Loan Portfolio
41.      KIE's loan  portfolio  has  been  seriously  affected by arrears
since 1979, when the ICDC portfolio was transferred to KIE. KIE's
records on arrears in its early years of operations are incomplete, since
the collection information was not properly recorded when KIE's debt
collection system was  computerized  in  the  early  eighties.   The 1981
supervision mission, however, reported that there had been a substantial
increase in arrears in the 1979-80 period even though arrears related to
the ICDC portfolio as a percent of the total had declined sharply.
Improvement in the arrears situation was made a condition of further IDA
support to KIE.   KIE's  collection  performance improved considerably in
the 1983-85 period, although there has been a reversal in 1986 and 1987,
as shown in the table  below.    The  deterioration of performance may be
because management attention, which between 1983-85 focused mainly on
improving  collections,  must  now  be   concerned  also  with  new  loan
approvals.   The  deterioration  may  also  have  arisen  becausc KIE was
initially able to boost collections from recalcitrant borrowers. Many of
the arrears that remain are eit' er to influential clients or insolvent
enterprises.
KIE Arrears and Collections
1980    1983   1984    1985    1986    1987
Arrears of                42.8    19.5   18.6    18.2    21.9    25.2
3 months
as Z of
outstanding
Total collection as
i of tuLa  'due                   57.8   61.3    84.1    71.8    53.3
42.      The breakdown of arrears  and collections by region demonstrates
that activities in Nairobi greatly affect the overall picture. As of
June 30, 1987, Nairobi represented 41% of the total portfolio and 56% of
arrears of over three months.   In the 1986-87, Nairobi accounted for 43Z
of all amounts due, and collected only 38Z of these amounts. The
problems of the portfolio in Nairobi are related to the fact that a large
number of influential clients are located in Nairobi and seemingly can
get away with not paying KIE.   As  of  March 31, 1987,  24 large clients
accounted fur 50  of arrears.  Of  these, 14 (accounting for one third of
arrears) were located in  Nairobi.    This  reflacts a situation in which
small loans are subsidizing large clients, an anomalous situation for a
financial intermediary.



- 1S -
43.      The  recurring  problem  of  arrears  in  KIE  arises  also from
inadequate project appr.isal and supervision.   Staff have been reluctant
to proceed against what they perceive as inexperienced entrepreneurs.
In addition, many borrowers believe that KIE is a government agency and
therefore does not need to  be  repaid.   Recent IDA missions continue to
highlight the arrears problem with both KIE and Government. KIE has
indicated that it is preparing an action program to deal with the arrears                 r
situation.   Arnexes  3,  7  and  8  contain  infornation  on arrears and
collections. These arrears  data  are  gross  figures,  i.e., they do not
adjust for accumulated provisions for  bad  debts (see para. 48 for KIE's
provisioning policy).   However,  even  if  net  arrears  are computed by
excluding these provisions, their  ratio  to the total amount outstanding
has risen sharply since 1984.   Further,  the gross arrears data shown in
these Annexes are still problematic since these provisions for bad debts
represent. a &!gnificant claim on KIE's profits.
Financial Position
44.      KIE's projected and actual  balance sheets and income statements
are given in Annexes 9 and 10 and the key financial ratios are in Annex
11. KIE's financial position deteriorated from its establishment until
the mid-eighties.  Between 1977 and 1984,  KIE made losses in all but two
years of operations. Net losses fluctuated widely because KIE did not
have a consistent accounting policy for provisions expense until 1984.
KIE's poor financial performance during the period resulted from several
factors. First, KIE incurred losses on its industrial estate activities
because  it  was  paying   interest   charges  before  the  estates  were
operational. Second, KIE bKd to make high provisions for bad debts due
to the poor qu-lity of its loan portfolio. Third, weak debt collection
practices and political interference reducea KIE's income and contributed
to high arrears. Lastly, KIE had to make high provisions for the ICDC
loan portfolio which was transferred to KIE without adequate provisions.
45.      The appraisal  correctly  identified  the financial difficulties
which KIE would face in its early years of operations. A number of
measures were discussed to strengthen KIE's financial position and some
were included in the loan  document.   The measures included increases in
interest and rental charges; avoidance of exchange risk on foreign
currency   transactions,   adequate    capitalization,   a   satisfactory
debt/equity requirement, and operational subsidies.   With respect to the
subsidies, the appraisal anticipated that  the Government would cover the
losses in the initial years  through admir.istrative grants (stated in the
appraisal report, but not covenanted),  and that the Government would not
transfer  to  KIE  doubtful   loans   in  ICDC's  portfolio  (Minutes  of
Negotiations).
46.      During  project  implementation,  the  Government  was  slow  in
providing financial support  to  KIE.    The  Government  did not provide
subsidies to cover operating losses through 1981, as expected at the time
of appraisal. Instead, the administrative grants were suspended in 1978.
In addition, the Government transferred a number of doubtful loans in
ICDC's portfolio without arranging to cover losses. IDA classified the
project a problem project in 1980, after the transfer of the ICDC



- 16 -
portfolio to KIE, which led KIE to break the debt/equity covenant (3:1).
The project was taken off  the  problem  project list when the Governm3nt
increased KIE's capital, thus enabling it to meet the debt/equity
requirement.    KIE's  financial   situation  continued  to  deteriorate,
however, due to weak appraisals  an,d poor collection performance, and the
project was again classified a problem project between 1981 and 1983.
IDA reluctantly agreed to extend the commitment authority of the project
by one year to December 31,  1982,  and refused a second extension unless
KIE took a number of measurer designed to improve its performance,
including revising its strategy statement and preparing acceptable
operational and financial  plans.    Although  KIE    began to revise its
policy statement it took time to prepare acceptable operational and
financial plans (this was the first function of the expatriate financial
manager when he joined KIE in 1982), and IDA ultimately decided not to
extend the commitment authority for subprojects.
47.      KIE initiated a reform  program  in  1983  which has resulted in
improved profitability. The program included a revision of its lending
policies (increases in lending rates from 10-11 to 13-14Z, and reduced
participation in projects from 852 to 701), improvement in collections
and a financial restructuring program agreed to in connection with the
second IDA credit. Under the program, loans to KIE relating to physical
infrastructure investment were converted into irredeemable non-interest
bearing debt, which reduced interest expense. In addition, USS5 million
in accumulated losses were written off against equity. As a result, KIE
showed a profit in its 1 st three years of operations. The return on
equity was negative until 985 and has averaged 1.6Z over the past three
years. Under the second IDA credit, KIE agreed to send to IDA for review
annual Operating Plans which include operations and financial projections
for  five  years  on  a   rolling   basis,  with  targets  for  improving
profitability, increasing  collections  and  lowering  arrears.   KIE has
prepared these plans, with some delay, and they are serving both to
improve planning within KIE and to monitor perfcrmance.
48.      The lack of an adequate provisions policy was a major concern of
IDA in KIE's early  years  of  operations.    KIE introduced a provisions
policy in 1984.    Between  1984  and  1986,  it  made  provision for all
projects facing serious problems (C Category) and all projects which had
failed (D Category). In addition, it made full provision for projects
facing minor problems but which were substantially in arrears. This
policy resulted in accumulated provisions which were equal to arrears,
which was quite conservative.  In  1987  KIE changed its provision policy
to cover 20? of gross portfolio, which should be adequate to cover
expected losses.
49.      Administrative  costs  averaged  5.61  of  average  total assets
during the period, and were below appraisal estimates. Administrative
costs declined from 6.5Z of average  total  assets  in   1981 to a low of
4.7? in 1985. Costs have increased over the past two years because of
salary increases (Government and parastatal wide) and increased non-staff
expenditures. and in 1987 reached 6? of average total assets. KIE's
average  cost  of  borrowing  is  6?.    However,  as  KIE  has  received
considerable funds either as equity from Government or as grants from



- 17 -
external sources, the average cost of money (including equity) is belo'w
the 32 projected at appraisal, and allows a sufficient margin to cover
its administrative costs.
50.      KIE  has maintained a  strong liquidity position with ample cash
balances because the Government transfers its annual allocations to KIE
two half-yearly installments during the fiscal year, rather than when
required. KIE's debt equity ratio during the eighties has remained
within the 3:1 stipulated at  the  time  of  appraisal.    Annex 12 shows
KIE's compliance with ma4or covenants from Credit 750-KE.
Resource Mobilization
51.      KIE has received  considerable  external  support,  and has been
successful in m 1,ilizing external resources in support of its activities.
Be .ween 1977 and 1987, KIE has received fresh loans from IDA (US$6.0
million), Germany--KFW and GTZ (US$6.0 million), Sweden (US$2.9 million);
Norway (US$7.5 million); EEC (US$0.5 million). KFW funds are transferred
by the Government as a loan with a repayment period of 15 years and
interest at 6Z.    GTZ  and  Norwegian  funds  have  been given as grarts
directly to KIE. The balance of external funds have been transferred to
RE by the Government as an irredeemable loan with interest at 32 per
annum. In addition, as part of a financial restructuring program agreed
to in connection with the second IDA credit, the Government transferred
US$11.2  million  equivalent  as   an  interest-free  irredeemable  loan.
Between  1977  and  1987,  KIE   received   KSh  161  million  in  equity
contributions from the Government. Donor coordination has been a problem
with KIE, however.   KIE  has  accepted  numerous  experts frem these and
other  agencies,  finding  later   that   these  experts  were  providing
conflicting advice or were undermining KIE's own efforts. Services have
also been duplicated in some areas (i.e., training) while other deserving
functions have  been  reglected.    The  reorganization  of  KIE in 1985,
bringing together entrepreneur training and project supervision, was
intended to bring all of KIE's training advisors together under one
"roof". Annex 13 gives information on KIE's resource mobilization.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
52.      In reviewing the  lessone  from  Credit  750-KE,  one  can look at
several different levels. First, at the enterprise 'level, important lessons
arise from the evaluation of KIE's policies, procedures, and operations.
The second set of issues addresses more broadly the choices Government
faces in defining its strategy for promoting small enterprises. Finally,
the Bank (and other donors) can learn from their own experience in the
appraisal and supervision of this Credit.
53.      First, at the enterprise  level,  KIE's experience in establishing
lending, technical assistance and  estate  facilities for small enterprises
offers a wealth of information for other institutions. KIE's experience
i.as shown the difficulties of integrating such a multi-faceted and
-purposed institution, and points to the need for strong top and middle
managers, solid information systems, and good cooperation between field
offices and the  disparate  units  in  headquarters.         The experience also



- 18 -
demonstrates that maintaining the integritv of each function (i.e., banking
vs. promotion) is difficult; since many officers end up wearing several
different hats, it becomes difficult for them to be tough with defaulting
clients or to establish credibility as a *good guy* when offering advice or
training to entrepreneurs.
54.      KIE's poor portfolio performance provides  a number of lessons for
other institutions. First, loan appraisal must focus more closely on the
capabilities and creditworthiness of the entrepreneur. Most importantly,
KIE needs to feel assured that they will be repaid. Although KIE has
devoted si,nificant time to  elaborate  financial projections and technical
descriptions of the projects, for most projects the market is small and
localized and the technology is  standard.   The key determinant to project
success is the ability and the commitment of the spon or to implement the
project and repay the loan.    Second, KIE's portfolio performance improved
dramatically in 1985 when it slowed down its pace of new approvals. While
other pressures may have also influenced KIE's activities during that
period, field officers remain responsible for both appraisal and project
supervision/loan collections. If KIE lowers its targets for new lending,
field officers can then pay more attention to the existing clients and
management is likely to look more closely at collections and arrears. The
experience in 1985 also underscored the importance of senior management
giving high and visible commitment to improving collections. Without some
pressure from the top, field officers are likely to pursue the more
pleasant aspects of their jobs, i.e., training and new appraisals, rather
than chase after delinquent clients.
55.      In addition,  the  experience  with  KIE  pointed  to  a number of
problems with KIE's  relationship  with  Government.   First, by implicitly
allowing politicians to direct KIE loans to themselves or friends,
Government has undermined KIE's ability to function as a viable financial
institution.1   Because these influential  clients do not repay their loans
and KIE staff are unable to or uncomfortable with pursuing them vigorously,
KIE's overall portfolio suffers and its ability to attract further donor
support is diminished.    Furthermore,  because  KIE has poured significant
resources into these large loans to influential clients, in effect the
smaller clients that KIE is supposed to assist are in fact subsidizing the
powerful few.  In addition, it  appears that within Government there is not
full consensus on KIE's objectives  and  strategy.   This lack of consensus
manifests itself in the mixed signals KIE receives from Government (e.g.,
KIE is told to become more profitable, but at the same time is asked to
1/ In comments on this PCR (see Appendix), KIE's management stresses its
independence, and that of its Board, in making operational decisions.
However, there is evidence that political interference was a factor in
KIE's poor financial performance during the period covered in this report.
Obviously, this was only one of several causes (including poor management
and institutional weaknesses) that contributed to KIE's difficulties.



- 19 -
undertake activities which are less profitable, such as, informal sector
lending and, loans to influential clients). Until recently, Government did
not imprcve the compensation available to KIE staff, making it difficult
for KIE to attract and retain high quality staff. Moreover, in its earlier
years, Government failed to provide KIE with the administrative grants
necessary for its c,:-ations. Part of the problem within Government may be
the rapid turnover in leadership in the concerned Ministries (Industry,
Commerce  and  Finance),  as   well   as  the  multiplicity  of  actors--in
Government, in the political arena, and in the private sector--involved in
the promotion of  small-scale  enterprises.    Nonetheless,  some person or
institution ought to be bringing together these activities in a coherent
and coordinated manner.
56.      The apparent ambivalence in Government  vis-a-vis KIE leads to the
second set of issues: what is Government's strategy for the promotion of
small enterprises? Government is appropriately stressing the development
of small enterprises as a potential source of growth and employment in the
coming years.    At  present,  however,  there  is  a  plethora of programs
supporting such enterprises in Kenya, which are not coordinated, and may
indeed conflict at times. To date, Government has chosen to pour most of
its resources in this area  into  KIE.    If Government were to continue to
support KIE, closer scrutiny of KIE, the form it takes and the functions it
performs is necessary.
_-7.     KIE in the  future  could  take  several  forms.   First, it could
remain  as  it  is:    an  institution  offering  financial  and  technical
assistance to clients as well as estate facilities. In order to carry ou.
these functions successfully, however, KIE would need greater autonomy
"particularly in lending and foreclosures), more financial discipline and
strong management, not only at the top, but throughout the organization.
Salaries and career opportunities would have to be upgraded in order to
attract the high calibre staff necessary.   KIE would also need to separate
more  explicitly  its  banking  activities  from  its  promotion, technical
assistance and estate operations. Such a separation might take the form of
a separate subsidiary for banking, a separate agency for promotion and
training or establishing profit centers for each of the three functions.
KIE management would also need more flexibility in its staffing and
rompensation policies in  order  to  reward  staff  commensurate with their
performance; indeed, performance criteria for staff on the banking side
would probably  differ  from  those  involved  in  promotion  and training.
Finally, in order to be more viable financially, KIE would need the
assistance and complete cooperation of Government in cleaning up its
portfolio (including foreclosures as necessary on influential clients) and
determining the losses on its deposits in failed NBFIs.



- 20 -
58.      A second option for KIE's  future  role  would  be for it to focus
exclusively or. the promotional and training functions (perhaps including
the Estates), leaving the financial intermediation to the banking system.Z
To a limited extent, Government appears to be moving in this direction, by
supporting the USAID program of loans to small enterprises through the
three largest commercial  banks.    Before  Government chooses this option,
however, several issues need to be settled, both within and without KIE.
If commercial banks (or NBFIs or development finance institutions) are to
assume the financial intermediation role for small enterprises, the
activity must be sufficiently profitaole; otherwise, they are likely to do
nothing more than pay lip service to small enterprise lending. Thus,
interest rates must be sufficiently flexible to allow banks to charge
interest commensurate with the risk and increased transaction costs
associated with small-scale lending (indeed, interest rate policy is
important whether or not KIE continues to lend to SSIs). In addition,
Government (and donors) may wish to consider assisting these institutions
in improving their project appraisal capabilities, especially vis-d-vib
longer term lending.   The  participating  financial institutions will also
need a sufficiently stable funding base (or flexibility in interest rates)
in order to make longer term loans.    In  addition, if KIE is to cease its
lending activities, Government will need to decide what to do with the
existing portfolio.      In  its  current  state,  it  is  unlikely  that any
financial institution will be interested in assuming it. Thus, KIE may
have to write down significant losses on the loan portfolio. KIE in this
new configuration will also need to reexamine its staffing requirements; it
may need fewer staff, or staff with different skills than they have at
present.     Its  funding  requiremeats  and  cost  structure  would  change
dramatically as well. In its role as an advisory and training institution,
KIE would still have to choose its market carefully, to be sure not to
duplicate services better handled by non-Government organizations or
existing Government agencies and institutions.   While numerous and perhaps
difficult to implenrent, these changes  would leave Government with a small-
enterprise lending p'-ogram that  is  probably less susceptible to political
influence and does not duplicate services available in other institutions.
59.      Many othFir variations on these  scenarios exist.  One question for
the future is whether 100 percent direct Government ownership of KIE is
necessary or desirable.    One  option  might  be  that  KIE become a joint
subsidiary of several development finance instiLutions and/or banks for the
purpose of small-scale lending.   Such  a co..figuration would be attractive
if sufficient private sector ownership were involved to deter political
interference. Another area to consider, especially if KIE is to continue
to have banking functions, is the appropriate target clientele: small-
scale industry, small-scale services, traders, informal sector, etc.
2/ In comments on this PCR (see Appendix), KIE's management argues that the
viability of this option is doubtful because commercial banks are unlikely
to lend to small borrowers who lack adequate collateral.



- 21 -
60.      Finally, the KIE experience has important lessons for the Bank and
other donors in the management of such a project. The appraisal of the
Project was not comprehensive in all areas, particularly in articulating
and planning the steps needed to transform KIE from a small wing of ICDC
into a large, decentralized, multi-purposed institution. In addition, the
appraisal endorsed the expansion of the industrial estate activities
without reviewing in detail the performance of the existing estates. The
performance  of  the   estates   also   received  little  attention  Auring
supervision, especially in the early years of project implementation.
Moreover, during supervision IDA staff were slow to confront KIE and
Government  with  the  problems  of  the  institution;  had  we  moved rore
forcefully earlier, we might have helped halt or slow the deterioration of
KIE's portfolio and financial performance, and had a more constructive
dialogue with KIE about its difficulties.
61.      In addition, the KIE  experience  demonstrates the need for better
coordination with other donors.    In  KIE,  technical assistance has often
paid few dividends. since each donor had its own technical assistance team
in the institution and its own  agenda.   Consequently, some areas have had
duplicative services from the donor community, while other areas have been
left  untouched.    Congruence  in   perspective  and  objectives  for  the
institution is also important, particularly in the area of lending
priorities and policies.
62.      Also, we need to  examine  IDA's  future  role in supporting small
enterprises. As we have been instrumental in the creation of KIE, we have
a responsibility to help Government and KIE strengthen itself and enable it
to fulfill its mandate. Under the proposed Financial Sector Operation and
in future sector work in the area of small enterprises and informal sector
activities, we hope to explore with Government a broader range of
instruments with which to promote small-scale enterprises. Consequently,
future interventions in this area may be more broadly based (rather than a
single-institution line of credit), or provide policy reforms along with
the provision of credit.
June 1988
Revised: June 1989



- 23-
KENYA SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 760-KE)
Schdul- of Estimated vs Actual Disbursements
(US$S '6)
Fiscal             ---Appraisal Estimato---  -------------------------Actual----------------------
Year      Quarter Per Quarter  Cumulative   Per Quarter Cumulative X of Estimate X of Total Loan
1978             4            a                     12.90      12.96                          9.11
1979             1       6eo.Ua       66.6a          2.90      15.8U           0.56           0.21
2       O"6."6    1,400.00          4.89      20.10           0.51           6.2X
3     1,6O". 6     2,400.69        27.90      48. 6           2.81           0.6%
4     1,1in.66     8,56s.66       328.65     371.60          29.4%           3.7X
1986             1     1,166.66     4,666.66        13.69     384.50           1.2X           8.sx
2        olU6      5,56se.oo       51.76     436.20           6.71           4.41
3       8o.oo      6,8300.60      310.70     746.80          38.8x           7.6X
4       76.66    7,6o6.o6         438.90   1,183.70          62.4x          11.8x
1981             1       796.6O     7,700.66        16.10   1,198.80           2.2%          12.0%
2       700.00     8,400.66       164.60   1,353.30          22.1%          13.5X
3      6e6."6    9,066.66         417.30   1,770.66          69.6%          17.7X
4       666.66     9,666.69       106.20   1,876.90          17.53           8.8sx
1982             .       300.66     9,966. o       293.9w   2,169.80          98.6X          21.7X
2       166.66    16,666.66       176.40   2,346.26         175.43          23.5U
3                                 494.60   2,749.80                         27.6X
4                                  34.40   2,784.20                         27.8X
1s83             1                                 691.00   3,375.30                         33.8X
2                                 466.90   3,832.20                         38.3x
8                                 128.99   3,961.10                         39.ax
4                                 143.80   4,104.90                         41.06
1984             1                                 262.30   4,367.20                         43.6X
2                                  35.66   4,392.80                         43.9%
3                                  91.86   4,484.66                         44.8x
4                                  16.70   4,600.30                         46.01
1985             1                                 166.40   4,666.66                         46.0x
2                                  93.40   4,694.00                         46.9x
3                                 220.890  4,914.890                        49.A
4                                  66.30   4,981.10                         49.8x
1986             1                                  21.99   5,003.00                         56.61
2                                 64.66   6,067.00                         560.7



KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 760-KE)                                    /
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED
Serial                                       Approval                                                                     Loan       1an
No.      Reg. Nan-  of the Sub-Project       Date        Location   Sector               Product                         Amount   Ca=gory
(US) 
663.     Inti Unforms Ltd.                   78-11-27   Meru        Clothing             Uniforms                      5,6186.2      A A
664.     Kanyoni Printern A Stationers       79-02-15   Meru        Printing             Stationery                   40,400.69       C
07.      John A. Dickson A Co. Ltd           79-94-13   Embu        Quarry               Ballast                      47,651.23      A
68.      Luciana Bakeries Ltd.               79-64-13   Ny-ri       Food                 Broad                        56,e46.71  t  D
a16.     Rinkony- Enterprises Co. Ltd.       79-94-16   Meru        Quarry               Ballast                      32,996.16  t  a
128.     Associated Steel Ltd.               79-06-10   Nairobi    Metal product         Kitchen sinks               U38,549.27      A
Sub-total (FY79)                                615,916.S0 e
071.     John A. Dickson A Co. Ltd.          79-09-29   Embu        Quarry               Ballast                      26,329.57      A
620.     Wilrove Feeds Ltd.                  60-01-16   Eldoret    Food                  Anial feeds                 12,241.87      D
016.     Yeana Ltd.                          80-01-21   Nairobi    Clothing              Men's clothing                5,643.68      A
o11.     Mt. Kenya Business Machines Ltd.   80-01-21   Embu         Printing             Stationery                   30,204.46      A
013.     Tale Bakery Ltd.                    80-01-21   Tale        Food                 Broad                         8,180.60      B
014.     Thiks Bakery                        80-01-21   Nairobi    Food                  Bread                        39,649.4       B
616.     Rare Bakers Ltd.                    80-01-21   Nairobi    Food                  Broad                        26,472.68      8
612.     Kirika A Co. Ltd.                   80-01-21   Muranga    Food                  Broad                        21,709.26      D
023.     Motor Vehicle w/shop-Yusuf Seikh   80-01-26   Carissa    Transport              Motor vehicle repair         17,166.29      B
130.     Kitele Tannery Ltd.                 80-02-29   Eldoret    Leather               Leather                     302,391.16      B
129.     Equator Shoe Co. Ltd.               86-04-17   Nakuru      Footwear             Shoes                       140,547.40      B
024.     Tumising Workshop Ltd.              80-O6-19   Kericho    Quarry                Ballast                          26.49      A
619.     Hardware Investment Ltd.            80-0-24   Machakos   Wood                   Furniture                    31,591.85      C
017.     Circle Printing Press Ltd.          80-06-27   Nairobi    Printing              Labels                       92,361.49      C
Sub-total (FY86)                                756,306.56
11.      Kabarnet Friends Dry Cleaners      86-7-17   Kabern-t   Service                 Dry cleaner                  17,9990.6      A
036.     Scorpio Ltd.                        86-08-08   Nairobi    Clothing              Knit woer                    35,9067.0      C
629.     Kagene Posho Mill                   80-08-08   Moru        Food                 Maize flour                   3,863.U1      C
033.     Kapsoit General Motors              80-10-16   Kericho    Transport             Motor vehicle repair          4,655.64      B          (Q U
002.     Flora Bakeries                     8-10-16   Kericho    Food                   Broad                         0,661.62      D           m
632.     Kericho Knit Wear                   86-10-1^   Kericho    Clothing              Knit wear                     1,431.1e      A
028.     Sik Sik Traders                     86-16-16   Eldoret    Food                  Maize flour                   6,322.70      B
622.     Kega Furnising Co.Ltd.              80-10-27   Nairobi    Wood                  Furniture                    16,647.76      c           
649.     M/S Tembea Uon- W/Shop              80-16-31   Meru        Clothing             Men's clothing                6,822.13      C
027.     Matars Trading Co. Ltd.             80-11-12   Nairobi    Food                  Coffoe roasting              42,183.35      -
026.     Lubu Industries (1981) Ltd.         80-11-12   Kakamega   Quarry                Ballast                      69,373.1o      B
021.     Esbu Fruit Canners Ltd.             860-11-12   Embu       Food                 Fruit canning                16,737.56      D
133.     Tack Products Ltd.                  80-11-14   Nairobi    Chemical              Synthetic adhesive           93,65.48       A
631.     Beansm Enterprises Saw Mill         80-12-08   Machakos   Wood                  Sawn timber                  56,890.69      D
030.     Champion Batteries Ltd.             86-12-08   Nairobi    Electrical            Battery                      10,644.69      C
06i.     Peacock Embroidery Industry         80-12-15   Eldoret   Clothing               Embroidery                    6,3 6.96      0



KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 760-KE)
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED
Serial                                       Approvel                                                                              Loan
No.      Reg. Name of the Sub-Project        Date       Lecation   Sector               Product                         Amount   Category
(US$)
637.     Mrs. Dorcas Mati                    81-03-17   Enbu       Food                 Mai" flour                   4,647.12       B
638.     Tana Bakery Ltd.                    81-g3-17   Embu       Food                 Bread                        7,278.93       D
639.     Patrick Mbungu Nyagah               81-63-17   Embu       Wood                 Furnituro                    7,212.11       8
642.     M/S Kuria Garment (K) Ltd.          81-03-18   Nairobi    Clothing             Men's A women's clothing    17,271.01       A
047.     Wanjau A Sons Co. Ltd.              81-03-18   Nairobi    Wood                 Furniture                    9,597.C4       B
648.     Major Musyoki Shem (Kitu;)          81-03-18   Kitu;      Clothing             Uniform.                    26,337.96       C
644.     Triumph Fashions (K) Ltd.           81-04-14   Nairobi    Clothing             Womn's under garment        56,218.10       C
46.      Muthiga Carpentry Shop              81-04-14   Nairobi    Wood                 Furniture                    5,s95.66       C
641.     Voi Food Manufacturers              81-64-22   Voi        Food                 Broad                       60,874.54       B
134.     Porcolain Products Ltd.             81-04-24   Nairobi    Non-metal min prod  Tabloware                   213,643.21       8
Sub-total (FY81)                                766,569#.9
062.     Nelly Sorvices Ltd.                 81-07-07   Nairobi    Printing             Computer typeset.           57,654.36       D
063.     Mumba Furniture Ltd.                81-07-07   Meru       Wood                 Furnituro                   16,266.41       C
660.     Kericho Garment Makers Ltd.         81-07-16   Koricho    Clothing             Men's clothing               9,890.65       6
66S.    Kapng'-ch-r Ltd.                     81-07-16   Eldoret    Service              Motor vehilel  repair       21,096.14       C
661.     Kogos 1981 Ltd.                     81-67-16   Eldnret    Food                 Bisad                       29,153.67       C
664.     M/S Ngwata Posho Mill               81-07-27   Meru       Food                 Maize flour                  7,261.13       A
664.     Paulette Fashions Ltd.              81-07-27   Nairobi    Clothing             School uniforms             16,715.65       B
663.     Highlands Wood A Allied Ltd.        81-67-27   Nairobi    Wood                Sawn timber                  51,529.63       B
067.     M/S Wiyumiririe Saw Mill            81-08-14   Nakuru     Wood                Sawn timber                  28,968.16       A
66.      M/S Kenya Shoe Co. Ltd.             81-08-14   Nakuru     Footwear             Shoes                       55,195.57       B
066.     Sunble-t Bakery-Ngong               81-08-20   Machakos   Food                Bread                         7,225.68       A
070.     Juja Concrete Products Ltd.         81-09-21   Nairobi    Non-metal min prod  Cement blockn                26,595.66      B
669.     Mumo Motor Garoge                   81-09-21   Nairobi    Transport           Motor vehicle  repair         5,682.72       A
668.     Nally Services A Packers Ltd.       81-O9-21   Nairobi    Food                Tomato sauce                 11,625.26      B
137.     Fornbit Ltd.                        81-09-29   Nairobi    Chemical            Printing ink                 97,735.74      B
079.     New Mzazala General W/Shop          81-10-27   Voi        Wood                Furniture                     6,613.89      D
072.     Hillworks Furniture Ltd.            81-11-26   Nairobi    Wood                Furniture                    48,151.63      C
074.     Makatiat Ltd.                       82-01-27   Kabernet   Food                Broad                        46,639.56      A
077.     Maridadi Furniture Ltd.             82-01-27   Nairobi    Wood                Furniture                    16,092.69      B
673.     Mutachoka Posho Mill                82-61-27   Malindi    Food                 Maize flour                  2,166.54       A
084.     Bwayi Posho Mill                    82-02-26   Eldor-t    Food                Maize flour                   3,757.61      B
082.     M/S Rafiki Uniforms Ltd.            82-03-18   Kakamega   Clothing            Uniform.                      7,240.62      8
136.     Detinning Scraq Metal               82-04-20   Nairobi    Metal               letinning scrap metal        69,166.28      A
086.     Upper Hill Enterprises Ltd.         82-06-13   Nakuru     Service             Cleaning                     82,134.66      A
083.     Atlas Paints Ltd.                   82-05-13   Eldoret    Chemical            Paint                        12,0206.6      C
086.     Pete Industries Ltd.                82-06-14   Nairobi    Clothing             Exercise books              42,562.21      B          o
681.     Beta Print Ltd.                     82-06-14   Voi        Printing            Printing                     86,1006.6      8
088.     Fashion Knitwear (K) Ltd.           82-06-14   Eldoret    Clothing            Knit woar                    66,699.06      A          's
087.     Tala Dry Cleaners Ltd.              82-06-18   Tala       Service             Dry cleaners                 16,984.22      A
618.     U-ru-Bakery Co. Ltd.                82-06-26   Meru       Food                Broad                        67,643.16      a
100.     Nduati Furniture Ltd.               82-06-29   Kericho    Wood                Furniture                    56,646.43      B



KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 750-KE)
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED
Serial                                       Approval                                                                     Loan      Loan
No.      Reg. Nam  of the Sub-Project        Date        Location   Sector               Product                         Amount   Category
(US1)
Sub-total (FY82)                                878,621.69
090.     Honey Pot Bakory Co. Ltd.           82-07-12   Embu        Food                 Bread                        82,596.00      A
096.     U/S Sagaiso Posho Mill Co. Ltd.    12-07-13   Nakuru       Food                 Maize flour                   6,966557      A
092.     Mosoriot Quarry                     82-67-16   Eldor-t    Quarry                Stone aggregate              66,0f9.64      A
093.     Warakwa Printers Ltd.               82-07-18   Nairobi    Printing              Printer                      68,617.16      C
120.     Mikinduri Sheet Metal               82-07-16   Embu        Metal                Window cas ements             5,81.96       A
140.     M/S Leather Masters Ltd.            82-07-16   Nairobi    Leather               Leather                     191,766.96      C
094.     Stella graphics Ltd.                82-07-18   Nairobi    Printing              Type setting services        66,06.69       C
102.     Kambaland Investment Ltd.           02-07-28   Kitui       Service             Dry eleaning                  22,617.46      B
096.     Kibowen Investments Co. Ltd.        82-08-25   Nakuru      Food                 Maize flour                   6,459.76      A
104.     Fragrant Flavour Enterprises        82-09-24   Malindi    Food                 Vinegar rose water             6,627.47      B
109.     Pamat Enterprises Ltd.              82-69-29   Machakos   Food                  Maize flour                   7,192.99      A
110.     Kyuku Nthogoni Flour Millers Co.Ltd82-09-29   Machakos   Food                  Maize flour                    4,417.17      A
111.     Kathams Posho Mill                  82-09-29   Machakos   Food                  Maize flour                                 A A
118.     Bertha Kathuuro                     82-10-16   Meru        Clothing            Knit wear                        692.0o      A
065.     Mururi Industries                   82-10-15   Meru        Wood                 Furniture                     6,287.62      C
114.     Gariss* Posho Mill Industry         82-10-15   Carissa    Food                 Uaize flour                    5,789.74      8
122.     Cates Leather Products              82-10-15   Moru        Leather              Leather                       8,323.86      B
106.    Kanuku Garments                      82-10-15   Meru        Clothing            Uniforms                       2,296.82      C
112.     Mutheithir Stores                   82-10-16   Meru        Clothing            hnit weer                      8,760.44      A
123.     Mikwason Posho Mill                 82-10-16   Meru        Food                 Moire flour                   4,401.84      C             c
103.     Thithino Shoet Metal W/Shop         82-10-20   Meru        Metal Product       Wind3w Casements               1,686.57      A
143.     Birdan Feeds Ltd.                   82-10-22   Machakos   Food                 Animal feeds                  26,629.58      C
108.     Aniko Super Feeds Co. Ltd.          82-10-22   Nairobi    Food                 Animal feeds                 41,449.64       B
139.     Casts Chemicals Ltd.                82-10-22   Nairobi    Chemical              Castor oil                  120,819.99      a
128.     Harwills Int. Ltc.                  82 10-22   -           Electrical           Electrical accessories       82,114.24      A
105.     Longo Tailoring Shop                82-11-06   Malindi    Clothing              School uniforms               2,866.17      C
li.      Kiritiri Posho Mill                 82-11-09   Embu        Food                 Maize flour                   2,688.44      A
107.     Mothers Pride Bakery Ltd.           92-11-10   Nairobi    Food                  Bread                        24,108.16      C
117.     Kameli Posho Mill                   82-11-19   Embu        Food                 Maiz, flour                   6,224.92      B
124.     Antubeiga Posho M;11                83-02-09   Meru        Food                 Maize flour                   6,149.70      C
113.     Hurio Posho Mill                    83-02-09   Meru        Food                 Maize flout                   4,274.60      A
121.     Irongi Timber Industries            83-02-09   Meru        Wood                 Furniture                    16,568.62      A
116.     Marurumu Posho Mill                 83-02-09   Embu        Food                 Maize flour                   6,405.28      C
142.     Continental Industri-e              83-05-19   Nairobi    Chemical             Hair A skin products         188,286.0 O
Sub-total (FY83)                              1,037,420.87                    X
080.     Nyange Dry Clesners Ltd.            84-O6-28   Voi         Service              Cleaners                     18,792.14      A
Sub-total (FY84)                                 18,792.14



KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 760-KE)
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED
Serial                                      Approval                                                                   Loan      Loan
No.      Rog. Name of the Sub-Projoct       Date       Location   Sector               Product                        Amount   Category
(USS)
125.    M/S Terry's Cake Bakery             84-07-28   Nairobi    Food                Bread & cakes                16,166.66      8
067.    Gotab Sanik Enterprises             84-08-09   Kericho    Food                Bread                        16,2.u00       A
Sub-total (FY86)                                W0,426. 66
Total                                        3,992,881.40
-J
crj
I.,'



KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CR 750-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES, LTD
ANALYSIS OF LOANS IN ARREARS 1979 TO 1987
(in K Shs. millions)
Year Ending June 30                   1979       1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1986       1966      1967
Number of Loans in Arroars
- Total No. of loans in
Portfolio                          263        316       296       6S0        570        641        66S      6Om        1112
- No. of loans in Arrear
over a months                       NA         NA        NA        279       330        370        367       453        go9
- as of total loans                   NA         NA        NA         56.8X      67.91     57.71      53.7X     66.61      63.61
Princie*l Affected by Arrears
- Total Principal Outstanding         85.61    111.907   148.489   196.539   239.856   282.61    319.9S6   367.316   398.662
- Principal affected by arrears
over 3 months                       NA         NA        NA        103.036   168.W00    173.906   206.166   248.16   266.878
- as 1 of total principal
outstanding                         NA        NA         NA         62.41     66.9X      61.6X      64.4X     69.6X      72.6X
Actual Amounts in Arr-ars
- Arrears over 3 months               25.805    47.946    60.434    37.962    46.743    62.662    68.866    76.164   166.414
- as 1 of total amounts
outstanding                         30.14X    42.81      34.06      19.32X    19.49X    18.841    18.24X    21.871    26.23J
Collection Performance
- Total Arroars at beginning          NA         NA        NA         NA        42.611    51.952    69.066      66.616     6. 897
of year
- Total Collections during             3.684      8.620    12.727    14.923    12.919    17.64    34.978    32.122    84.98
the year
- Total Arrears at the end            NA         NA        NA         42.611    61.962    ee.e W      68.618   86.67    113.376
of th- year



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CR 750-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LTD
EVOLUTION OF STAFFING 1981 - 1987
19L1.   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Year ended December 31
Total staff at beginning of year        402    406    388    393    421    479          487
of which support staff              332    338    327    328    361    403         413
of which professionals               70      68     61      65      60      76      74
Total staff who left KIE                 19      18      18     24      13      14       14
of which support staff               14      11     17      19       8      10      12
of which professionals                5       7       1      5       5       4       2
due to resignation              11     14      10       8      5       8        7
due to termination               6      4       7       4      4       5        6
due to retirement                2      -       1      12      4       1        1
Total new staff during year              23       7      23      52     71      22       49
of which support staff               20       7     18      52      50      20      44
of which professionals                3       -       5      -      21       2        5
Total staff at end of year              406    388    393    421    479    487          512
of wnich support staff              338    327    328    361    403    413         445
of which professionals               68      61     65      60      76      74      77



KENYA - SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CR. 76-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES, LTD
LENDING OPERATIONS 19-1967
(in K S.  tmilion)
Year ended June 3t                     19"         1961           1962            1963          1964        19865            1          1967
NO.  AMOWT   NO.  AMIOWT  NO.   AMIMI   NO.  AilWNT  NO.  AMT  No.  AMT    M.  AREIT  NO.  AMOWIT
Approvals
T n LiUsne - Domestic Currency    246  72.61 *9   47.66   111  61.686   116   64.496 187  66.919   173   47.977 J99  79.6   426   74.978
Equity Investments                 -  *.112   -        6.771    1  0.260   -        -        1   I.      -      -        -     -      -      -
Commit_nte (Amotmnto only)
T-rm Loann - Domestic Currency          MA       1      ,           NA             MA           67.642         42        .666   U            1.54n
Equity Investments                       6.112     *     .771        0.2U6          -1 -                                       -             -
Disbursements (Amounts only)
Tem Lor tan  - Domestic Currency        34.652         39. 1"       4S.96         S3.939        4S.3           49.961         86.224       U3641
Equity Investments                       0.112     *     .771    * .2U6             -            I.             -              -             -
Undilbursed Comelteente                                              4. 61191.623                -             81.722         18.49         16.613 
and Uncommitted Approvals               43.666        24.479        24.241         79. U        9S.749         665.31        62.129        166.426
Ameunts of Approvals cancel led         NA            27.627         -              -            -              4.469        26.176         17.354
I. 



KENYA - SMALL ISCA USTRY PROJECT (CR 750-1(E
KENYA IP&ISTRIAL ESTATES _TD
KIE ThNtJ1RRIAL ESTAT- FACILITIES
Jun- 1987 (K sh OD
Regional      Type of   Yenr of       No of sheds          Occupancy      nEt- .d           Ront/    Loena i,  Total No. of   Cross Aeets  IProf,t
Location      faci ity  comple-                 _            Rate    fac:llitils   space    sq. ft.  A-rears   employees                          (los)
tion     Kf      KfT        trs                           sq. ft.  K Sh.    (K Sh.                                       87 budget
Total  Rented                                                       mill ion)
Nairobi       ZE           1968      54      54               00S        e-s        175140    1.45      14.717        1900          43.300,000     *0.464
Machakow      RIDC         1975      21      19               905        You         14450    0.65        13.290       8O0           2,100.000      *0.224
Tale          IPA          1982       9       9              1009        No           4680    0.80        0.707         30            1,900,000      0.001)
S/Hamud       IPA          1983       7       6        4      85         No           4500    0.80        1.386         33            1.590000      0.067)
Kik;ma        IPA          1984      10   NHi                   -        No           45C0    0.80        0.790          14           1,930,000     0 099
Nongx.n.      IPA          1984      10       3               301        No           3640    0.80        0.249          16           1.700.000     .0.062
Kib.ezi       IPA          1985      10       2               20t        No           5390    0.80        0.080         11           2,040,000      (0.106)
Sub-tota l
Nairobi                                                                             206000              18;.219                                     +0.49S
Nob...        IE           1976      21      16               76S        Yes         71200    1.20       34.147        130          10.000,000      .0.864
tmlh.,di      RIDC         1979       9       9              lOOS        No           8100    O.65        3.184         106          l.t00.000       0.076)
Voi           RIDC         1982      13      12        4      925        No          10600    0.80        2.575         85           3.000.000      0.07)
Tov-ta        IPA          1985       6       4        3      665        No           3400    0.80        0 .88         26           2.040.000      (10)
Sub-tote I
tombsa                                                                               93300               40.494                     16.70D.000      .0. 647
Nakuru        IE           1975      25      25       20    1CON         Yes        105610    1.20       28.760        M60           8.900,000      .0.717
Kabarnet      RIDC        1t32       10       9               90K        No           5160    0.80        2.695         57           2.800.000     (0.0 0)
Sub-total
NIku,su                              36                                             110790               29.455                     11,700.000     *0.67
Eldoret       IE           1980      25      24               968        No          87580    1.30                                  10.400.000      o.S7
q982                                                                          33.238
Nericho       RIDC         i9B5       9       6                195       No           7400    1.00        5.204       3S0            2.750.000     (0 070)
Sub-totel
Eldoret                              34                                              94890               38.437                                    .O.80                                w
Kisumu        IE           1975      22      20       14      91S        Ye          568O0    1.30        9. 98        1OD           7.300001)   .0.57
Ki-ii         RIDC         1975      11      11              1O00        No          12360    0.65        8.148        103           S,200.000     *0.010
hpo_ Bey      RIDC         19B2      11      11              1OOS        No          13230    1.00        4.917         70           S,IS0,000    .0.046
Sisys         RIDC         1982      11       9               82         No          10570    1.00        1. 55         90           4.300,000        on
Keroks       IPA           1986       a       1               165        No           7560   0.80         0. 646         6                            112
Sub-total
Kisumu                                                                              100520               25.254                                    .0.600
Ny-ri         IE           1982      24       8               33S        You         67500    1.30       24. 6M        270          2S,o0,eOO      (0.168)
Karatins      IPA          1982      20      20        4     1005        No           9290    0.80        2.,-31       2180          2.300,000     0.0.29
Sub-tota l
t4eri                                44                                              76790               27.296                                    (0.186)
Embu          IE           1975       8       a              1005        No           9880    1.00       12.420        242           7.300.000      0.06S
Meru          RIDC         1982      12       7               5WS        No          13500    0.865      12.18S3       82            3.400000 (o.058)
Ki tu i       RIC'         1984       6       3               50D        No           5000   0.80         3.223         89           S.160,000     (00.74)
Sub-total
Eebu                                                                                 293W8               27. 82                                    (0  46)
Kakamega      IE           1975      2i      26              1005        No          17 00   0.65                                    2,260.000    (C.1S9)
1985                                                                          11.588       650 S
8ungoma       RIDC         1982       5                      1005        No           3 XOC    0.80      -.393          55           1.700.000     .0.047 
Susia         RIiC         1985       7       7              100l        No           8&20    0.80        2.451         80           2.430.000     (0.115)                           M
Sub-total k
Kakmega                              38                                              28420               15.432                                    (0.207)
TOTAL:
385.413                                    +2.590



KENYA SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CR 75"-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LTD
LOAN PORTFOLIO COMIPTIONAS ON WJUNE   . 1967
(in K Sh. million)
Portifolo Co ootion bY Catoory                     Arrear CE c
N-O.-of Loans YViue ofi       of o.   S of Loan   TotTA  ountY Axrri-r  of    n value of   X of project*    X of projects
Categorization of Portfolio                   Loans      Loans     portfolio    in arrear-  over   monthe  portfolio    rat success ful        rated
portfolio                                                  uneueesf osl
A.  PORTFOLIO CATEGORY                                                                                        9     9
Uinor proble_m  (A)           674         129.121    ".6          J2.4          1.140          4.262     6.8   8.8         18s               -
Moderate problems (_ )        22          164.768    16.2         38.9         58.397         61.924    37.7  88.5         Um                -
Major problem  (C)            141         63.278    12.7          26.9         36.610         32.967    42.6  89.6          "2.4            71.6
Failed Projectu (D)            9S         3M.St6      6.6          7.8         11.411         11.291    87.0  #.S             7.4           92.6
Not availablo                   -           -         -            -            -              -          -     -             -              -
Total                        1112        396.892   100.0         100.6        11J.VS         19.414    29.5  26.2           68.0           17.0
B. SECTOR DISTRIBUTION
Food                          426         77.06S    88.6          19.4         13.629         10.S02    16.9  18.6          96.0             6.1
Toxtile-/Leather              217         36.569    19.6          22.2         80.234         27.487    84.2  81.6           73.8           21.7
Wood/Paper                    169         69.928    16.2          17.6         28.776         26.812    41.1  86.8           71.6           29.6
Chemicals                      26         37.122      2.8          9.8          6.041          6.196    16.1  14.6           n.6            19.2
Metal/Engineering             186         56.291    12.2          18.9         19.911         17.968    86.0 82.5            74.8            5.7
Service  (included In
Miscellaneous)                -          -          -            -            -              -         -     -              -              -
Construction (Mining and
Quarrying)                   18         16.490      1.6          2.6          1.t86          1.071    18.2  16.2         1U9.d             -
Miscelloneous                 118         69.699    16.6          16.S         14.00S         11.414    28.6  19.2           77.1           22.9
Total                        1112        898.062   189.0         1n.0         113.376       19.414    26.5  26.2            U8.0           17.0
C. OTHER CHARACTERISTICS
On Estato - (Failed ones)      72         31.782                               18.619         11.271
(Existing)        166        131.076                              46.998          41.996
287        162.666    21.8         40.9         59.017          66.269    86.6  88.9          66.4           81.6
Off Estate                    676        286.194    78.7          69.1         63.1/9         45.146    28.9  19.8           97.d           18.6
Fully Implemented             944        308.460    34.9X         92.6e       113.876       1N.414    26.5  25.2           U3.69           17.0
Under Impi em ntation         168         29.542    15.1X          7.4          -              -         -      -             -              -
IDA only                      169         66.662      9.61        16.71        19.165         18.948    29.71 26.4X          66.73         1U.83
Non-IDA                      1003        831.840    90.21         88.8X        94.211         31.471    28.63 24.6S          62.81          17.7111
Note: t - In respect of Total Arrears
O - In respect of Arrears over 8 months.



- 33 -
ANNEX 8
KENYA - SMALL-SCALE TNDUSTRY PROJECT (Credit 756-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LTD
HTSTORICAL CULLECTION PERFORiANCE
(in KSh million)
Amounts                                       Tot I
Year ending    Arrears at beginning    Falling due    Total       Total Collection/    Arrearo
June a.          of the year         during the   collection     Total due (X)      at eod of
Year                                       the year
Total
1979                NA                NA            a.u4            NA                 NA
1980                NA                NA            8.526           NA                 NA
1981                NA                NA           12.727           NA                 NA
1982                NA                NA           14.928           NA                 42.511
1983                42.611            22.36        12.919           67.sx              61.952
1984                61.962            20.676       17.694           61.8              6e.U6
l99S               e6.o6              41.59        34.978           84.1%              66.618
1986                66.618            44.769       32.122           71.8K              ss.e7
1987                88.07             63.832       34.03            58.8x             113.876
Note - No separate data available for principal and interest.



KENYA - SUALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CR. 760-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES, LTO.
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS, 1900-1967
(K Sh Million)
:1960           1081            1982            183                1904            1906             19 0            1987
Proj.   Actual  Proj.   Actual  Proj.   Actunl    Proj.   Actual   Proj.   Actual  Proj.   Actual  Proj.   Actual  Prej.   Actual
Aos"to
______________________
Cash sod banks           20.1    95.2   34.3    U8.5   26.1        96.7    75.7    107.6   107.9   104.7    35.6   106.2   110.7  139.1   104.2   153.6
Other morrsnt assets      4.0     3.4     4.0     3.7     4.0       7.5      4.0      6.0     6.0    10.5     6.1    12.4    n.7    14.4    22.4   26.
Curr portion: portfolio                             0                 0                 0               0             44.9  U5.2              73.6
Total current *asset     24.1   908.6   29.3   92.2   29.i    104.2    79.7   115.5   115.9   116.2  90.7  163.5   191.0   158.5  200.2   180.5
Portfolio (gross) 1/    137.0       0   165.1  136.1  186.1   190.6    274.1    240.3   290.6   283.3   353.6   276.3   236.3  3U5.6  311.7   399.3
Lose provisions         -13.3       0   -16.6   -20.2   -19.5    -51.6    -43.0   -51.3  -53.9  -57.0  -63.7  -u.0   42.0    7.0   -5.6  -49.4
Net portfolio           123.7    87.6   146.5  114.9   166.6   145.3   231.1    189.0   236.7   226.9   294.9   219.3   224.3   2M0.?   246.2   329.9
Net fixed  aaess         57.1    66.7    69.3  906.3      1.7    113.8   lJ6.3    123.8  136 7   136.4   140.0   146.4   147.0   146.3   144.6   146.5
Total ao-sto            204.9   252.9   237.6   802.4   256.4   J86.3    447.1    432.3   438.3   473.4   523.6   529.2  562.9   590.5  591.0   656.9
Liabilities and net worth
Sundry creditors          3.0     4.4     3.0     3.4     3.0       S.5     13.9      6.1    28.5     5.7     6.1      7.7     0.4     7.7     7.5     9.5
Accrued int:tera loans      0       0       0       0       0      25.0        0     37.9    35.5    52.4       0      9.9       0    17.9       0    26.2
Curr Rertlon:lt debt        0       0       0       0       0         0        0        0       0       0       0        0     *.0       0     9.4       0
Total curr liabilitios    3.0     4.4     3.0     0.4     3.0      30.5     13.9     44.0    64.0    60.1     6.1    17.6    14.4    25.5    16.9    37.9
Long-term debt          135.2   196.0   167.9   207.1   186.1    239.3    341.6    260.2   311.5  310.9   394.6   19S.1   212.4   226.1   213.3  253.6
Share capital A reserv  50.0    71.7    50.0   123.1    50.6    134.0    143.0    143.0   153.0   153.0   163.0   272.1   272.0   273.7   272.1   2?7.6
NORAO grant              16.7   14.8    16.7   14.9   16.7         J1.9     80.9     34.0    36.5    36.9   38.5    39.1    57.2    59.2    76.4   *6.4
Retained aornings               -34.0           -51.1             -72.9    -82.5    -69.0   -76.7  -60.5   -71.6       3.4     6.9     5.9    11.9    6.5
Total Not Worth          66.7    52.5    66.7    80.9    67.3      93.0     91.4    108.6   112.6   109.4   127.9   314.6   336.1   336.8   360.3   365.5
Total Liab A Not Worth  204.9   262.9   237.6   302.4   256.4    363.3    447.1    432.8   486.3   473.4  62d.8   523.3  562.9   590.4   591.0  656.9
Notes
1/ Including *guity investmentes sounting to lese than 0.5X of gross portfolio



KENYA - SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 760-KE)
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES, LTD.
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS, 1980-1987
(KSh Million)
1980            1981             1982             1983               1984            1965             1966             1917
proj  actual    proj  actual    proj   actual      proj   actual    pro)  actual    proj  actual    proj  actual    proj  actual
loan Inc.e. 1/             11     6.6       14     4.5    16.4     20.3    19.5       20.3   22.2    24.0    27.6    29.7   33.0    33.1    87.9    87.7
r-nt,toc charges          8.5     4.3      9.1     '.5    12.1      6.9       9.1     10.1    t.7       6.t    10.1     9.8      0.6     9.5    11.t    11.1
other Income 2/          6.49     5.9      4.J     6.3     2.1      10.9      6.9     15.7   t1.6    14.9   16.1    14.1    17.3    17.2    17.4    21.6
gross Incoe              24.0   17.5    27.4    16.6    30.8        38.1     36.7     46.1   49.5    47.7    54.0    68.4   59.'    59.6    67.1    70.4
salari..                         10.3             12.7              14.6     19.9     14.7    15.5    15.0    10.2    16.2    17.6    20.4    13.7   20.2
other administ. exp.              4.7              0.9              6.h       7.4      9.0     7.5      7.5     J.J     t.9      t.0     9.9     t.7    13.4
superv/training expensen                          n.o.              n.n.              n.n.             n.n.            n.e.    H.S.             t2.
total adinist. exp.      14.1    16.0   16.1    19.6    17.7       21.4      27.3     23.7    23.0    22.5    24.5    25.0    25.6       0.8   29.9    39.6
depreciation              1.8     2.1      1.9     2.2       2       3.0      4.4      J.6     3.9      J.6       4      3.t     8.9     4.9      8.5     3.7
lnterest                  4.7     2.4     6.4      7.5     7.5     10.6      14.2     12.9      20    14.5    10.6      9.9    10.6      7.8    11.4    10.5
total expenen-           20.6    19.5    24.1    29.3    27.2       34.9     45.9     40.2   48.9    40.6    39.1    38.7    40.1    48.0    44.6    U3.9
profit bw provisions      3.1    -2.0      3.3   -12.5     3.4       3.2     10.2      5.9     2.6      7.1    14.9    14.7    19.8    16.9    22.3    16.6
provisions 3/                    14.5      3.3     4.5     2.8     24.0         5      1.3     6.4    18.7      9.6      9.1     3.6    12.2     9.7    11.3
profit before tax         8.4   -16.5      0.0  -17.0      1..6    -20.6    -16.2      4.6   -5.3   -11.6       5.1     5.6    10.0      4.6    12.6      5.3
tax                                                                                                                              5.9             6.7
profit after tax          3.4  -16.6       0.0  -17.0      0.6    -20.8   -16.2        4.6   -5.6   -11.6       5.1     5.6      4.1     4.6     5.3      5.3
-34.6                      0.6
Notes:
1/ Artificially low In 1981 because of change In accounting policy toward suspension of Interest.
2/ Moatly interest on fixed d peolte.
J/ Prowlsion expenass aro not comparanle from year to yet.  becauso of aig- ZIcont changes In accounting policy between 1961 and 19P4.
I-



KENYA - SMALL SCALE ULSTIRY PROJECT (CREDIT 70-KCE)
KlNYA DU1STRIAL ESTATES, LTD.
PROJECTED AD ACtUAL FINANCIAL RATIOS. 190-19117
(KSH MiII on)
19a0           19g1            19a2             19a               1964            less            1_ at"
proj actual   prej  actes I   proj  actue l    proj  actual   proj  actual   Proj  actu I   prej  actue I   ptj  actu I
profit aft tx/equity     5.1X  -81.41   O.OX  -19.sX   0.91   -22.4S   -16.63      4.2X   -1.13  -10.OX    4.05    1.aX    1.2X    1.43    l.OX   1.X
lose Incme/greme port   3.0    NA    9.si X      ss    s.9s    10.1X    7.15      3.43    7.03    0.53   7.6   10.7J   11. X    9.2o    12.2X    9.45
*de oxp/otealasaata      6.9X    5.9    1   6.6     1 6.c3 .95.    S." 0    .1Sa    i.i    4.71    4.73    4."    4.71   4.6       5.113   a.1l    *.Ot
borr charge/total ma.   2.53   0.95   2.7X    2.53    2.91    2."         1.2X     s.O    4.13    J.05    2.0X    1.ss    1.11   1.85    1.5X   1..1
prow/portf               9.73    NA    10.1X   15.0X   10.61   26.2X   lt.71    21.X3  13.65   20.13   17.31   21.05   21.71   16.05   21.01   17.4X
It debt/equity           2.0    3.7      2.5     2.4    2.3      2.0      8.7      2.6    2.3    2.3       *.1     0.6     0.6     0.7    0.6    0.7
total dobt/oquity        5.0    s.1    s.u   10.e    u.s    aa.1    17.0    46.@    66.3    60.            0.2   1a.2  1a.0   se.2   17.5   89.5
cuorrnt ratlo            .0   22.4    9.t   11.0    9.7          1.4      5.7      2.6    1.2     2.0   15.4      0.8   18.J      6.0   11.3    4.t
Income Statent e     Avorage Total Aeseta
loen Inc_m              10.73    5.43    6.1X    1.6X    6.63    0.1X     C.iX    5.13    4.71    S."X  .I .S X     .03    6.01    5.91    6.6    6.OX
ront,tec ch              6. 8    1.3X   4.13    2.01    4.91      2.13    2.63     2.53    1.91    1.0X    2.0    1.11   1.31    1.73    2.01    I.311
otbor Ine                6.1X    4.71    1.9X    2.43   0.9A    3.33       2.01    5.9"    4.01    1.85    3.23    2.31    1.23    8.13    3.01    3.63
grose Ino               23.43   11."X  12.43    6.13   12.43    11.43    10.1X   11.63   10.6X   10.53   10.61   10.63   11.01   10.J1   11.63 11.31
selari-e                  NA    3.13    NA    4.63    NA          4.4X     5.7X    1.7X   3.8S    1.13    3.23    *.2X    3.2X    3.6X    8.2X    4.2X
other a*e oxp             NA    $.73    NA    2.15        NA      2.03     2.1X    2.111   1.03    1.63    1.63    1.73    1.53    1.63    1.6X   2.13
totbli *&  xp           11.31   11.91    7.13    7.13    1.23     6.4X     7.81    6.0o    4.91    4.91    4.3 1    .01    4.71    5.4X   5.21    6.3X
depreciation             1.1X   1.73   0.0    0."    0.31         0.33     1.81     0.9n    o.63    0.31    0.6     o.3     0.71    0.91    0.61    0.63
lntaeat                  4.63    1.9"    2.3X    2.7?   8.0X    5.23      4.01     1.2X    4.33    t.23    2.13    2.01    1.91    1.41   2.01    1.73
total oxpense.          20.1X   15.43   10.9"   10.63   11.0    10.51   11.01    1O.1X   10.01    3.911   7.71    7.71    7.3x    7.71    7.6       6.6
Profit beforo prowls.    5.13  -1.63   1.ii   -4.53    1.43       1.01    -2.91     1.63    0.63    1.6X    2.90    2.91    3.6X    3.011   1.X   2.71
-----------------------------~~



-3  -
ANNDX 12
IA- S4ALL SCALE l1tDUSThR PROJECT  ICR. 750-tf,
Compilancy Pith Major C.rfa,ts               a
::. :2 !' d ' *Ir 5               rhe sc      roe  'cst 'or IrS s ?             n or   o':iaerce.  *,  s Eowra
P;. olicy Postetene                'feilses stall reil tt tee                     .           t':'i:ea  ae:. e,
I:tg-ru~r *'agiral ccsi  Ot             inr li,  wrnicn w :l  "t.I; tr?se
Oicilities.                             Ciosr to Ciaret ri'is,
*ec. 2.12 a^o ^E f                  E s'it a     use stin,anrd  Io        I' cS7llOce  r.  iccsoted
Agreed Poicy Statce!nt            ag*feeents and iease                     iCA sumgesonor!s r*ddlip.
igreeeents acceptaoie to !lA.
ofc.  .04                         'IE shill maintaip   tS                  ir coitsirce s!'te li9il
0roJe:t Agneteent                 4eot,eouity ratio oglo  3:1.
Eec. 2.12                         PIE shdil  charge in :te'est             In coeIiince.   'I  now
&rt-ect Agreu.emt                 rate ot lOt  .a.  on Do'ects             chtages 1i-  and 14I
Olth a total cost oeloos                fesPeCtiLel.v
ISn I uilluon aid  !.: C  .
on projects ibo,e kS', I
till ion.
Sec. D.l;rlE  snali no: in,est Io'e                                        In coapilance.  PIE 'eO
F'oe:t nireeqten,                 than  22> 0t total casts ic              requires 'us Iquilt; Pence It
itf :rcjects.                          ifinaces '7. oi tctal ;roc!:
coIst.
JcC  oI   tn(eCect:vemessi       'i  s oal:  -; sDr   :ltil               !n co,Wan'ce.
;ve:eoprent Crecit                sail rhae oeen Inc'easeo  to
Agrfeement                             5.
Sec.   07                         r'  srell ,'otecc  itself                In coqplince.   So,e'nment
Lereope7ret C'e:it                 ;,a  ist *uceigr evcainge               Dears vore;;n eKchange risk.
0q'eeeenht                        'Ibs
iec. 2.Lo  it                      ItE srull  furnish  all                In cmpliance.
Deve:opment Creoit                           D on ItS
nqreement                        1eC(instratIin  operations
ad 4inar:iai condition ds
:A stuall reisonably request.
'ec. L02                          tIE slul  fu' isn audited                Not entirel  in ccopi.rce.
fveseoprent Crecit               ifr:ac:a: statefents within              In tne recent           celays
9  eeeent                        tr  '  ant-ns D  tAe en'  ot             naoe oeen ou- to sic. gevero :
each  fISCai yed',                      proCeoUreS fo'  aco'Cval cC
audite dccounts.
53c. L2                           Th   sUr'oln  *ree-limI  Di             Notii:cItion was gi.en on
lievelopeent Coecit               S$!;j 'I.   tave etnect                 April 11, 1i'.,
Agreoment                         upof LA  s r:3.crjon  t'it
KI'  s 2oedi'aai D'Oecdures
rd mehocs ,re acceptable
to IDA.
tm:,tes of Negotiation            In res:ecl c- the tra'ste,               Tre tri~.Sn  cvI: ii     ns  -os
Io,   ti; !l1` stull loan :orti                                                  too  L   -t 1It  Fc'ttoiwi
to !IE,I  e  ctoenweI  wi:l             i;  1I7; as a5 rdr:el by
ens-nre t'et no Zc;otL :   2:3sS        sonerncent  'cvloe   'Ir
ill oe :na.snerneo  t  'IE.             WIth Pc :iect CCt:ensation
vc' to.  d'"" t: 'sul ceots
~n it:: OL .-          sea
ICs       :n':n  c'c.suns
t:mards .,i  22   :'ttci
itnicn led Ec'e't to ht,e
to i-:ease   IE s :a,i-in
capital to keep rl s
iC5hieostI uoer ur1.



KET am7 lmg TO m                &r IOH t1
Dot  f            Os notion                  ant in U#i Ye rs           Years of
Sourc--  of f..due          Ap,oo,l       Approd         O....       Apro.d  Or.r    ot-rity          O,ec.         Terms         *ovrnatnr           11_s
E2r.2inJO M
VDrTIlnk                   -              NIlL
C    rcil a Iil
Bank (MA)         2M11.1977    1610.00        u1186.067     10.000  5.0O7     1US yora    20 y_ars  Iftrost n p.s. -  At. of K_ye    runds los to Ku
(10454 .69)                                           Repayment Ia J0                     by  K Is Mike.
1.lf-yosrly
ia "" II o ut  frm
2 -                         S 4190        C@1 a
IW3          0674,517)  19 827  192U          -do-       22 yoars         -o-ddo                              -d-
S. 011 (For VA I i di                                  Cm.77
R. 1 0 C)         26.17          a  0.J (1048. an           0. 87   0.4U        NIL       NIL        Interest  1 P.O.                         I wleed e s _ruw by
irrodosoublo                           sod po_od _  to
KmF
-d- (Fe,r tEP)          Is 12. 1m      M" 2.0       O.
d rffrl-       O . 964)   .I6U  0.11O          NIL       NIL         rat                    -                  -
4. D1110                    2D.9.1f74     O.Krl.89                                                            Inteornt              _             b    e VW  M Groat by
-_ -        D.Kr,_&         I.1I0 1U2    *.28   0.201       NIL       M         86 p.. Irredeemable                 MIWK   asod us to
O.Krf                                                                                                   Km
5. SIDA          J           0.8.191      SE.17.911 161. IN    2.9           1. SU        NIL       NIL             -do-                                  -do-
10.9-iwo11
O.1411A1                    21.4.1971     hK 10.0      Km 2.074J    1. an   0.s in        NIL      N"L                 *              - _d_
22.12. 17"    NK 2D. 0     KOMI.1 748    8 109   3 109        NIL       NIL       Reces .ed s   ra          
Dec. 1ow      hK  0        KShl7           2 J    .4          NIL       NIL             -do-              -                    -
7.   .                     25II.1960       J 0.6      ECJ0.48       0.960   o.e48        NIL      4IL        Interest M     .        - P.M.oo <qi.ed ur by
(K1IM4.50)                                            Irrsdouble                           M  sa  pmd"W us be
Km
S. -at. of Knsys            4.2.U197      K6 1.0.206   1U190.216   11.175  11.175         NIL       NIL       Fres of iasWet           -          Ao por flesiel
Irredeeusbles                       rostrauetrisg sppeo 
fe Irredeeusble lems
subordinaetd to osilty.
9.    -do,                 An par snal I(SN$2.060    KS1 .62.061   1.11   i.54            NIL      NIL        IUars         p.s 8 
dels I oumnt                                                                      irrosustlo
aptiuesto of
ths bd"et
-NIL-
CDC              4.8.iwo)       KShl7.80    KShl7.8g0    I           ,g0     Terus "at opOcifiod                                        This susest represento
'OeDl   mis  o-s    U                                                         el ouset    _ iof eas
impetbod by IWCo-
siotd unito
t,uuolorrod to KmE is
NIL        -
(aG()                             ShUI1.0    161.82        9.487   4.71             -         -              -               -            i brm of fisseolsl
KUAH           1   J j           2 Lr|i -                    -              -                -          r       t       pr 9ed                       LA)
e'ta  SiUiX                              h              KSI        sB <cs                                                                        Kg    n6 .7111s1illios
odJeotsd *";nast eqit#
N    - C-n.rzion rates u-d - 118 . I(Shl7.D025
-1 -S .  41.947
lUSt . OKr6 .6
11i58 . SEX  1261
611.8   NOK6.4325
1    . L-SUi.20664



- 39 -
APPENDIX
Page 1 of 11
Comments Received from the Borrower
/UNUAW  KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LIMITED
X dfl~I                                                         HEADQUARTERS
-_           TELEP_NE 542300                            LIKONI/LUSINGETI ROAD
TELEPHONE 542300                     ~~~~~~~P 0 BOX 78029
&STRIAL 9 s   TELEPHONENAIROBI
TELEGRAM NAINDEST                                      KENYA
TELEX: 24191 KENOEST-KE
Your Ref:
OurRef    VAN/ADMN.131/VOL.13/61                    Date  8th June, 1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki,
Division Chief,
Policy Based, Lending, Industry,
Public Utilities and Urban Sectors
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818H Street, N.W.,
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433 USA.
Dear Mr. Nowicki,
RE: SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY IROJECT (CR.750-KE) PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
Please refer to your letter dated 27th April 1989 enclosing
Project Completion Report (PCR) on IDA Credit 750-KE and
seeking our comments on the contents thereof.
We have gone through PCR with interest and we thank you for
sending to us a copy for our comments before issue of the
final report.
Certain factual corrections required to be made are in Annexure
I while our comments on PCR are given in Annexure II. We
hope you will find our comments in order. In case you need
further clarification or additional information please feel
free to contact me or write to me.
With regards,
Yours faithfully,
(V.A. YODI)(MRS.)
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Mr. C.S. Mbindyo,
C.C. The Permanent Secretary        C.C. The Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Industry,               Ministry of Finance,
P.O. Box 30418,                     P.O. Box 30007,
NAIROBI.                            NAIROBI.
With reference to letter            With reference to his
No.IND/104/02 dated                 letter No.EA/EA62/230/
15.5.89.                            01 dated 12.5.89.



- 41 -                   APPENDIX
Page 2 of 11
ANNEXURE I
FACTUAL CORRECTIONS REQUIRED TO BE MADE
PAGE AND PARAGRAPH NOS.    CORRECTIONS REQUIRED
1.  Back of the Covering         Fiscal year of KIS is July
page.                       1 - June 30 and not January
1 - December 31.
2.  Basic Data Sheet             If the actual Local currency
(page (iii))                cost was US$2.7 million and
amount drawn from the credit
was US$ 5.1 million the actual
total Project cost will be
US$7.8 million in place of
US$7.4 million.
3.  Loan Data (page iii)         Fiscal year is July 1 - June
30 and not June 30 - July
1.
4.  Evaluation Summary           KIE was established in 1967
(Page V)                    and not in 1988.
5.  Evaluation Summary           Para (ii) The technical assistance
(page V)                  component not only financed
training for KIE staff and
an expatriate financial manager
but also a finanoial analyst
and a training expert both
expatriates; studies for estate
management and introduction
of computerisation.
6.  Introduction (Page 1)        Para 1.  a) KIE began operations
as an autonomous institution
in 1978 (Ist July 1978) and
r.ot in 1977.
b)... and inadequate financial
support from Government, which
had been expected to provide
--/2



- 42 -                     APPENDIX
Page 3 of 11
subsidies in the form of administrative
grants to KIE in its early years
of operations.'
Actually the Government provided
administrative grants till 30th June
1978 when KIE was a subsidiary of
ICDC but such grants were stopped
from 1st July 1978 once KIE started
autonomous operations.
7.  II Macroeconomic and         Para 8.  KIE was made an independent
Sectoral settinq         parastatal in 1978 and not in 1977
(Page 3)             (Actually from 1st July 1978).
(For sk   8.  III Proiect Obiectives       Para 11.  KIEwas expected to finance
ee""^t,           an  Descri tion          85% of total subproject cost upto
see P.          (Page 4)             KShs. 3 million and 80% of total
*par.2l                                    subproject cost exceeding KShs.3
",.1.)                                     million with the remaining 15% or
20% provided by the entrepreneur
and not 80% only.
9.  IV Utilization of the        Paral3 -  KIE had already obtained
Credit (Page 5)       financing from KFW at the time of
its autonomous operations because
the loan given to ICDC by KFW prior
to 30.6.78 was transferred to KIE
to the extent there were loar outstandin
against subprojects whose loans
were transferred from ICDC to KIE.
Thus subsequent to the appraisal
of IDA Credit, KIE obtained financing
from Norad only.
10. Industrial Credit
Component (Page 6)          Para 16.  KIE did raise its interest
rates from 10% and 11% p.a. to 13%
and 14% p.a. with effect from 1st
July 1984 following the increase
in interest rates by the Government.
11. Construction                 Para 23 - The Rural Industrial Centres
Components (Page 7)          (RIDCs) moderately sized facilities
are located in small to medium towns
while the Industrial Promotion Areas
(IPAs) are located in rural and not
-ice versa.
12. Technical Assistance         Para 27.  Besides the expatriates
(Page 8)                 sted in this paragrah whose emoluments
were financed from this credit, the
emoluments of Mr.B.L. Pandya, who
was appoited as Management Accountant,
were also financed out of this credit.
Further, the IDA financed financial
advisor to  assist in project financial
analysis who contributed considerably
to strengthening the financial appraisal
capabilities and    an ILO expert    /3



- 43 -                      APPENDIX
Page 4 of 11
to assist, in training were appointed
before the GTZ land not KFW) financed
the position of acting financial
manager who remained at KIE until
1983.
13. Technical Assistance         Para 28.  A portion of the Technical
(Page 9)                 Assistance Component was utilised
in engaging consultants for undertaking
studies on Estate Management and
Introduction of Computerisation.
14. VI. Operations and           Para 37 - The uncommitted approvals
Financial Condition    represented one and one half years
(Page 13)            of approvals in 1987 and not in 1977.
15. (Page 17)                    Para 50 - The Government does not
transfer its annual allocations to
KIE at the beginning of the fiscal
year but generally in two instalments-
one in December and another in June
each year. Lately, however, the
funds are released in the last quarter
of the fiscal year.
16. Resource Mobilization        Para 51.  i) KFW Funds are transferred
to KIE by the Government as a loan
with repayment period of 15 years
and not 22 years.
ii) Between 1978 and 1985 (and not
between 1977 and 1987) KIE received
KShs.161 million (and not KShs.153
million) in equity contributions
from the Government.



- 44 -                      APPENDIX
Page 5 of 11
ANNEXURE II
COMMENTS ON PCR
1)                             PREFACE
PAGZ (i)
It is not fair to KIE to say tha* ODisbursement totalled US$5.1
For 'Ba   millioL yet the remaining US$4.9 milkon were cancelled, because
' ~t,    of IDA disappointment with lE's performancen.
ge p. 11,
Pars. 2.)   As per the IDA appraisal report the Credit of US$10 million was
approved wher the exchange rate was lUS$ to KShs.7.33 i.e. total
credit in erms of local currency was XShs.73.3 million. This included
construction component of US$1,422,000/- ti.e. KShs.10.423 million)
and Technical Assistance Component of US$800,000 (i.e. KShs.5.864
million) leaving balance amount of US$7,778,000/m (i.e. KShr.57.013
million) for lending to sub-projects. As against this, KIE drew
amounts totalling KShS.54.689 million which formed 74.6% of the
original amount of KShs.73.3 million. A substantial gap between
the amounts approved and disbursed had arisen mainly because of
the exchange rate going against Kenya Shilling and to some extent
because of IDA not approving KIE's proposals for financing construction
of sheds at the sites proposed by it as well as IDA not agreeing
to extend the date of commitment beyond 31st December 1982. It
would be appreciated that if the exchange rate jumped from KShs.7.33
in 1982 to KShs.16.89 in 1987 to one US Dollar, which was 130% higher
than the exchange rate assumed in the appraisal paper, then KIE
should have been allowed atleast double the period of 4 years originally
assumed in the project appraisal of IDA for commitment to enable
it to utilise the amount of credit which increased by 130% in terms
of Kenya Shilling because of exch..nge variation. we therefore feel
that the observation made viz'... because of IDA disappointment
with KIE's performance needs to be deleted particularly when IDA
aporcved Second Credit No.1738-KE in 1985.
2)                        EVALUATION SUMMARY
Page (V)
Se foot    It is also not fair to say in Para (iii) that "Because of political
interference, the management and Board have not always been able
not 1 on   to act independently', and in paragraph (iv) "in its relationship
Pg la.    wit; Government, KIE has encountered direct or indirect interference
in its credit decisions and pursuance of debtors". Let it be placed
on record here that thtere is absolutely no political interference
in the working d XIE and the Board of Directors takes decisions
independently based on facts and background d each case and the
KIE's management works under the guidance of its Board of Directors.
What is not being appreciated is that the target group assisted
by KIE is the first generation enterpreneurs who have not been well
experienced in the management of projects vis-a-vis the multi-nationals
arM shrewd Europeans as well as Asian industriealists/businessmen
who have a number of years' experience behind them and whom they
have to compete with in the same limited market, which, many a times,
is flooded with imported coods priced less than the cost of goods
locally manufactured.
3)                   INDUSTRIAL CREDIT COMPONENT
(PAGE 5)
i)(PARA 14)
(For Sank  One of the reasons given for slow commitment of the credit has been
coeot,   stated as KIE having obtained financing from other sources such
o P. I1,                                                                  --/2
Pare. a.)



- 45 -                        APPENDIX
Page 6 of 11
as KFW and Norad. It mu;tbe noted that conmitments under credit
750-KE were stopped on 31st Dece=hper 1982 and the comitaents under
Second IDA Credit commenced only in Aps:il 1997 when the cradit became
effective.  During the intervening 41/4 years, iI! had to depend
on funds made available by KFW and Norad. Had these iundz nOt been
available, KIE would have found it difficult to continue its lending
operations at the level at which it operated during that period.
ii)(Para 18) (Page 6)
(For asek   It is somewhat contradictory to find certain conclusions reached,
_ omt,    specially in the Preface, to the effect that IDA was disa,oointed
a" P 1    with KIE's Performance when in paragraph 18 it is  said that the
p.  noverall. sub vro,ect Performance under the IDA Credit was relatively
"t' 4') good considering that the loans were made at a time when KIN was
being reorganised, had staff inexperienced in Proiect appraisal
and were predominantly made to small enterDrenuers who had not owned
business before. Indeed had KIE approved the larger loans oriainally
envisaged at appraisal, it is likely that the portfolio performance
would have been worse". Even the cosmment made in paragraph 20 to
the effect that the cost of creation of per job was US$3600/r as
against US$4000/- piqected in the Appraisal report should not disappoint
IDA. It is therefore necessary to revise the comments in the Preface.
4)                    MANAGEMENT & ORGANIZATION
(Para 29-Page9)
(For Bank   KIE is a parastatal and the appointments of the Managing Director
--e""et,    and all the members of the Board are made by the Minister of Industry.
e D. 11   Among the Directors are the Permanent Secreta:ies of Ministry of
rs. F.)    Iidlistry and Ministry of Finance, as also the Executive Director
of ICDC who are all civil servants. The Chairman is a retired Lt.
General of Army. They cannot be considered as political appointees.
Hence the comment made that all Board members are political appointees
is not a fair one and needs amendment.
5)                       STAFFING & TRAINING
(Para 31 - Page 10)
Noted In    The parastatal classification of KIE has since been improved from
the revise   'Dn' to 'C' and improved pay scales will be applicable with effect
text.      from   1st July 1989.  This will help KIE in not only retaining
existing profesional staff but also attract better qualified and
experienced persons.
6)            COORDINATION OF STAFF TRAINING PROGRAMME
(Para 32 - Page 11)
(Fer Bank   KIE has since finalised arrangements to appoint Deputy Manage, Training
cement,    under Technical Assistance Component of Second IDA Credit who will
see p. 1,   coordinate all plans for training of staff and entrepreneurs to
Pr. 6.)   utilise financial assistance provided by different donors.
7)                         DEBT COLLECTION
(Para 36 - Page 12)
Pars. u   The responsibility for debt collection is that of the field offices
has b"en    where operating projects in categories A and B are concerned.  The'r
revised to  efforts are monitored by the Credit Control Section from Head Office.
,rfe      Where projects in cate ories 'C' and 'D' arg concerp gd  thelr follow
this.     up is done by the Legal Department in association with Credt Con rol
th *.                                                 __X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3



- 46 -                       APPENDIX
Page 7 of 11
Section by sale of repossessed machines, appointment of Receivers
for sale of assets owned by borrowers in corporate sector and filing
of court cases by invoking perconal guarantees executed by the entrepre-
neurs.
8)                            OPBRATIONS
(Para 7 - Page 12)
(For S"b    The comment viz "Loan approvals in real tems increased rapidly in
1977-81 but remained constant between 1981 and 1984 reflectina arowinq
a" P. ;   financial difficulties- appears to be uncalled for and contrary
per&.   to comments made at paragraphs 50 and 51 to the effect that KIE
"'a. 7.)      has maintained a strong liquidity position and has been successful
in mobilising external resources in support of its activities.
According of loan approvals depends on demand for loans by the
entrepreneurs who have ideas to be converted into projects and who
approach KIE for grant of loans. KIE had given up preparation of
projects on its own and then lo-ating entrepreneurs for quite some
time.
(Fore ank   The accumulated approvals which had remained to be committed and
C_m"nt,    formed 150% of the approvals for 1987 because of two reasons - one
o- p. -1,   was, many of the entreprenuers found it difficult to bring in their
Pr a)      contributions upto 30% of the project cost and the other was that
some of the entrepreneurs had second thoughts about the success
of the projects after watching the performance of similar units
put up by other entrepreneurs mainly because of competition from
medium and large industrial units as well as from imported goods,
prices of which were less than the cost of manufacture of local
goods. Also KIE had tightened its appraisal procedures under which
the entrepreneurs were required to satisfy KIE that they had sufficient
funds to meet their equity before the loan could be sanctioned,
as well as more emphasis was being put on markdt study to determine
the economic viability of the project. Because of these, the approvals
had come down.
Further, a close scrutiny of all the uncommitted approvals was under-
taken as a result of which approvals to the extent of KShs.17.84
million, KShs.29.039 million and KShs.52.043 million were cancelled
during 1986/87, 1987/88 and 1988/89 respectively.
(For Sank    The rental rams for sheds were increased by 26% with effect from
coment,    1.8.88 and the Board has approved further increased in rental by
"eep. 11,   18% with effect from 1.7.89.
per.. 9.)
9)                          LOAN PORTFOLIO
(Para 41 - Page 14)
The collections figures of 1983-85 period included sale proceeds
(For Bank    of assets of many difficult accounts and KIEhad almost suspended
comant,    loan approvals to concentrate attention of the Senior Managers on
s. p. 11,   collections.  For the year 1986/87, the collections formed 58.9%
Pare. 10.)   of the billings (and not 53.3%) which improved to 62% for 1987/88
and for the current year 1988-89 it is expected that the collections
will form 68.6% of the billings. Let it be recorded here that there
is no lack of attention of the management where collections are
concerned and we hold meetings of the field managers twice a year
where they are impressed upon the need for improving collections.
Special attention is paid to recalcitrant borrowers and in many
--/4



- 47 -                      APPENDIX
Page 8 of 11
cases, specially in Nairobi, we have appointed Receivers or filed
court cases to recover our dues.
(For g"&     It need to be pointed out that the position of arrears as reflected
>"Nomt       in Annexures 3,7 and 8 is based on gross figures i.e. without adjusting
olp ill the provision for bad debts which is created by debit to the profit
*F P* 11,    and loss account and in the balance sheet net figures are reflected
Pee. 11.)    after deducting provision for bad debts from the gross outstanding
loans.
If the accumulated provision of bad debts is deducted from the out-
standing as also from the arrears, on the assumption that such
provision is utilised in writing off the arrears, the positionfor
the four years (1984-1987) would be as under :-
(K1HS. '000)
YEAR      GROSS LOANS       ACCUMULATED   TOTAL   NET       NET      %OF
OUTSTANDING       PROVISION    ARREARS  O/S   ARREARS   6TO5
FOR BAD               (2-3)   (4-3)
DEBTS
2                3           4        5        6        7
1983-84   282,510           56,958        60,006  225,552  3,048    1.4%
1984-85   319,955           57,983        66,618  261.972  8,635    3.3%
1985-86   357,316           67,914        88,070  289,402 20,156    7.0%
IS86-87   398,002           69,389       111,783  328,613 42.394   12.9%
For a Development Finance Institution, whose target group 's first
generation of entrepreneurs, the above percentages of net arrears
to net loans outstanding cannot be considezed to be high.
10)                       FINANCIAL POSITION
(Para 45 - Page 75)
This point   i) We note with satifaction the analysis you hdve made of the reasons
is am-       which resulted in KIE incurinq losses.  It need to be pointed out
tio.d in     that till 1978-79 Government did not charge any interest on lendings
pars. 47.    to KIE for construction of sheds and accordingly KIE did not take
into account interest cost on funds raised for construction of sheds
while fixing monthly rentals. In November 1979, the Government
decided to charge interest at 6% p.a. on all its past and future
lendings by taking a cue from the interest rate of 6% p.a. fixed
for its lendings to KIE out of IDA credit.
After the matter was taken up with the Government and it was realiseo
that interest cost on those funds at 6% p.a. was not justified,
such funds were converted into interest fSes loan under the Financial
Restructuring approved in 1984/85. After that KIE's working results
have reflected net profit in each of the years i.e. KShs.5.607 million
for 1984/85, KShs.4.626 million for 1985/86, KShs.5.344 million
for 1986/87 and KShs.5.851 million for 1987-88.
11)                CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
(For ank    For the explanations given above on the comments made in different
paragraphs of PCR, the conclusion drawn in paragraph  55 would
sep ;1,      need t) be amended particularly about pclitical interference in
pa P.)       KIE's operations.
pare. 12.)                                                                  5



- 48 -                       APP3NDIX
Page 9 of 11
It is not correct to say in Para 55(Page 18) that, 'within Government
there is not full consenaus on XIE's objectives and strategy and
that this lack of consensus manifests itself in the mixed signals
KIE receives from Government (e.g. KIE is told to b6come profitable,
but at the same time is asked to undertake activities which are
less profitable, i.e. informal sector, loans to influential clients)".
Let it be clarified here that no directions are received tm the
Government for lending to influential clients or to informal sector.
The management of KIE takes independent decisions, by obtaining
guidance from its Board of Directors, in the matter of granting
loan approvals based on the appraisal reports prepared reflecting
technical feasibility, economic viability and financial soundness
of the projects to be assisted. As regards lendings to the Informal
Sector, KIE had to fall in line with the declared policy of the
Government, as contained in the Sessional Paper No.1 of 1986, for
generating employment by making small investment in existing Informal
Sector units and this programme is backed by financial as6istance
in the form of grant provided by GTZ which provides for excass
exDenditure over income earned, if any, to be met out of such grant.
(Paragraph 56 - Page 19) - Government is using KIE as main vehicle
to promote and improve small scale enterprises for the reason that
KIE has a good net work of branches manned by trained staff which
is not the case with any other development finance institution.
Recently the Government decided that KIE should sale the industrial
sheds to the tenants occupying them which indicated that the role
of KIE is to be confined to promotion and financing of small scale
industries and its role as provider of industrial sheds on rent
must cease.
The comments made in paragraph 57 are important except for that
'kIE would need greater autonomy particularly in lending and foreclosure-
s." Let it be repeated that the Board of Directors is fully independent
and guides the management of KIE properly in these matters. The
suggestions made therein that KIE should separate more explicitly
its banking activities from its promotion,technical assistance and.
estate operations are good and need to be considercd for implementation
Since decision has already been taken to sell industrial sheds,
the estate operations will automaticaly end by the end of 1989/90.
We however differ wi. h the Second option contained in paragraph
58 under which lending activity is suggested to be dropped from
KIE activities and it being concentrated in the hands of Comercial
banks. The commercial banks operating in Kenya are too much security
conscious and they give preference to lending to the existing
enterprises for expanding their business rather than to new generation
of entrepreneurs.  They not only provide financial assistance to
African Kenyans but also to non-african as well as non-Kenyan who
are expartziates and are economically far better off than African
Kenyan and are in a position to provide colateral security for the
loans granted to them. Having got used to that, the commercial
banks demand collateral security from the African Kenyans also who
approach them for financial assistance. This is not the position
with KIE which does not insist on Collateral Security for grant
of loan for procurement of machinery, vehicles and industr*A buildings
but obtains charge on the assets created out of its loan funds.
Unfortunately USAID has extended its funds for lending to three
Commercial banks which have not fully utilised them because they
do not have experienced staff to handle appraisal of projects- on
par with what KIE has done. Even the credit guarantee scheme for
--/6



- 49 -
AmPILX
Page 10 of 11
small enterprises,which has been extended through the three coamercial
banks and covers even borrowers assisted by KIE and SEFCO for meeting
their working capital requirements, has not so far been made available
to such borrowers. We are of the view that if KIE is given only
promotional and training functions and lending is left to the Comorcial
banks, many of the African Kenyan who have been assisted so far
or who can be assisted in future by KIE will not be able to raise
financial assistance for their ventures from the Commial banks.
We therefore feel that the KIE should remain as it is but implement
suggestions contained in paragraph 57 and instead of operating industria
estates, it should construct sheds and sale them.



- 51 -
APPENDIX
Page 11 of 11
Bank Comments on KIE Letter
1.       As noted in project documents, KIE  was expected to finance 801 of
total cost for all IDA-financed subprojects.
2.       Disbuisements were  slower  than  planned  partly  because  of the
depreciation of the Kenyan Shilling (para. 14 of the report). However,
IDA's refusal to extend the commitment date beyond December 31, 1982, was
because KIE's proposed strategy to deal with its financial problems was
considered inadequate (as now reflected in the Preface). A reform program
was initiated in 1983 (para. 47 of the report), and its implementation led
to the approval of IDA's second credit to KIE in 1986.
3.       This reason for slow commitment of  the Credit has been deleted in
the revision.
4.       Para. 18 refers  to  subproject  performance,  taking into account
KIE's organizational and management problems. As the same paragraph notes,
about one-third of IDA-financed subprojects faced major problems or had
failed.
5.       The revised text notes  that  these  appointments  are made by the
Minister of Industry.
6.       This point already appears in para. 35.  But this individual would
be responsible only for enterprise training.
7.       KIE's financial problems during  this  period have been well docu-
mented and stem from its portfolio quality rather than its liquidity or
ability to raise external resources.
8.       Para. 37 has been revised  to  acknowledge the reduction in uncom-
mitted approvals since 1987.
9.       Para. 39 has been  revised  to  include this information on rental
rate increases.
10.      Para. 41 has been revised to note that, unlike in 1983-85, manage-
ment attention now cannot focus solely on improving collections.
11.      Para 43 has been  revised  to  note  that  the data in the Annexes
refer to gross arrears. It is pointed out, however, that the ratio of ret
arrears to total outstanding has risen since 1983 and that the provisio,ns
for bad debts have reduced KIE's profitability.
12.      These comments are acknowledged in  footnotes  1 and 2 on pages 18
and 20, respectively.



