Report No. 1554-KE                                                        FILE  CoPy
Appraisal of
Small Scale Industry Project
Kenya
October 31, 1977
Eastern Africa Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Shilling 1 = US$ 0.12
Shilling 1 million = US$ 120,000
DM I = 3.55 Shilling
Acronyms
DANIDA                 Danish International Development Agency
DFCK                   Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB                   East African Development Bank
ICDC                   Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB                    Industrial Development Bank
IPA                    Industrial Promotion Area
ISPC                   Industrial Survey and Promotion Center
KCB                    Kenya Commercial Bank
KfW                    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KIE                    Kenya Industrial Estates
MTAC                   Management Training and Advisory Center
NORAD                  Norwegian Agency for Development
RIDC                   Rural Industrial Development Center
RIDP                   Rural Industrial Development Program
SIDA                   Swedish International Development Authority
TSC                    Technical Services Center
Fiscal Year
KIE; July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
*            SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......                                       ........................... i-1
Is INTRODUCTION. .                    ......... ..... . ....               1
II. SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY IN KENYA .           .....            .. ..        2
A.  Economic Setting 2       ...........     ..................         2
B.  Small Industries Sector ................................    2
C.  Assistance to Small Scale Industry .....................    4
D.  Government Policies            ....... ................. ..    9
E.  Prospects    .........................................   10
III. KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES ....... o .......  ....... ... .o.            11
A. Organization and Procedures              .        .11
B. Resources                                         ..14
CG  Past Operations  o                                                 14
D.  Financial Position and Results ..................                  15
Eo  Projections ...ooo....f..  ..  e  ..o.ooo. 16
IVo THE PROJECT oooo.oooo..  .o....oo...oo  .. 18
A.  Objectives ..o....o.o  .  o  ..  oooo.  ... 18
B.  KIE Reorganization and Expansion                                   18
C.  KIE Policies         o.0                                           20
D.  Investment and Technical Assistance                                22
E.  Project Cost and Financing .............                           24
F. IDA Credit .25
V. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   . . ....   ...... .. .....                   26
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS  ..o....o .. . .o* ..... .o...... ..... o.*.. .    28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Levitsky and Lewis and Ms. Barry and Ms. Insel, which visited
Kenya in November/December, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Policy Statement
2. Organization Chart and Functional Relationships
3. Staffing Plan
4. Resource Position
5. Analysis of KIE Loans Approved
6. Analysis of ICDC Machinery Loans
7. Financial Statements 1973-76
8. KIE Operational Plan
9. Assumptions for Financial Projections
10. Projected Balance Sheet 1976-82
11. Projected Income Statement 1976-82
12. Projected Cash Flow 1977-82
13. Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15. Eldoret Industrial Estate
16. Product Possibilities for Workshops and Small Industries
17. Marketing and Sales Promotion
18. Disbursement Percentages
19. Map Showing KIE Activities



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report provides an appraisal of a project to assist in the
development of Kenyan small scale industry. The objective is to strengthen
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) -- a Government-owned company establishing and
managing industrial estates -- to enable it to assume principal responsi-
bility for further development of small scale industry in Kenya. In order
to carry out this increased responsibility, KIE needs to be reorganized
and expanded to provide for a financial intermediation capability as well as
to enhance its technical assistance capability. Moreover, its financial
policies and structure need fundamental changes; the long-term objective
is for KIE to become a self-sustaining financial intermediary capable of
borrowing on its own. The project includes a $10.0 million IDA credit to
provide financing for development of small scale industries and for tech-
nical assistance.
ii.       Manufacturing has been the leading growth sector in the Kenya
economy in recent years, with a growth rate of 11% prior to the downturn
in 1974 and 1975 which resulted from the sudden rise in import prices,
worldwide economic recession, and a local drought. Moreover, industrial
employment has increased to slightly over 100,000 with about 20% of the
total employed in firms with less than 50 employees. These small firms,
contributing about 17% of value added in manufacturing, have not been grow-
ing as rapidly as the larger firms. In addition, Kenya has a large and
active "informal" sector with estimated total employment of the order of
500,000, and employment in manufacturing between 50,000 and 100,000. The
Government is currently reformulating its strategy for the industrial sec-
tor because possibilities for import substitution are becoming limited.
The new strategy will be based on promoting efficient industries, some of
which may be import substitution oriented but most of which will be able to
compete in export markets. In addition, the Government intends to encourage
the use of local raw materials and labor intensive methods of production so
as to create employment and achieve better balance in the geographical dis-
tribution of employment opportunities. Further development of small scale
industry will play an important role in this strategy, since it serves to meet
employment objectives better than medium and large industry.
iii.      The Bank is maintaining a continuous dialogue with the Government
on industrial policy issues, which allows the Bank to monitor progress in
policy implementation as a background to the Bank's expanding lending pro-
gram to the industrial sector. KIE will make investments consistent with
this strategy, and KIE's experience will contribute to further industrial
policy formulation. The Bank Group has also been helping medium and large
industries through loans to the Industrial Development Bank (IDB). A third
loan of $20.0 million to IDB was approved on May 1977. The International
Finance Corporation has assisted several ventures in Kenya as well.
iv.       Small scale industries face significant technical and financial
problems in their development -- entrepreneurs are often unfamiliar with



- ii -
machinery and its operation, inexperienced in marketing, and unable to
qualify for commercial financing. The Kenyan Government and bilateral
donors have provided considerable assistance to small industry development,
and the stage has been reached for consolidation of the activities of the
institutions providing this assistance. The proposed project would build
on the substantial previous assistance and focus on KIE for further develop-
ment of small industry.
v.        KIE's principal activity has been the construction and operation
of industrial estates. As of June 1976, approximately 200,000 square feet of
factory space had been occupied by approximately 70 industries on three
industrial estates (Nairobi, Nakuru, and Kisumu). In addition KIE prepares
and appraises small scale industry projects and has recently begun to provide
financing for their implementation. As of June 1976, KIE had approved loans of
Sh 8.6 million. KIE's investment plan for estates and loan financing shows
total disbursements of Sh 215 million in FY1978-82.
vi.       As part of the project, KIE would be reorganized to (a) establish
a decentralized operation with regional centers assuming primary operating
responsibility, (b) upgrade and expand financial staff and (c) provide for
stronger management of technical services and project follow-up activities.
In addition, KIE's financial policies and structure would be changed to meet
two objectives: a) financial autonomy for KIE so that it can plan with full
knowledge of resources available and so that financial discipline will be
necessary for the success of its operations; and b) structuring the terms
of financing and rents for small industries on an economic basis so that
successful ones will expand and move off the estates and unsuccessful ones
will be discontinued, in order to make room for new small enterprises.
vii.      As part of the project, IDA would provide financing for (1) con-
struction of factories and workshop clusters, (2) industrial credit, and
(3) technical services. The project would include construction by KIE
of (1) 12 factory buildings for modern small scale industries at the Eldoret
Estate, (2) about 150 workshops for small industries dispersed among 10 in-
dustrial promotion areas (workshop clusters) in rural towns, and (3) about
40 workshops in industrial promotion areas in Nairobi. The project would also
include credit from KIE for the industries located in the factories and
workshops constructed under the project. In addition, KIE would provide loans
for approximately 30 modern small industries off the estates. Finally the
project would include 6 expatriate advisors and training of KIE's Kenyan
staff. The estimated total project cost is US$15.6 million, of which the
foreign component ($10.0 million) would be financed by IDA.
viii.     The IDA funds for construction and industrial credit would be
on-lent to KIE at 6% and KIE's lending rate would be increased from 8% to
11%, except to enterprises having total fixed assets including permanent work-
ing capital of up to Sh 1 million which would pay 10%. The loan to KIE would
have a fixed amortization schedule with maturity of 15 years including three
years grace, and the Government would carry the foreign exchange risk. All



- iii -
subprojects would be submitted to IDA for review until IDA has notified KIE
that its appraisal procedures are acceptable. Thereafter an individual
subloan free limit of $125,000 would become effective.
ix.       The main justification of the project is institution building.
In addition, the project would provide resources for substantial development
of small industries. The direct employment aspects of the project would
be significant with 2,600 jobs created. The fixed investment cost per job
in 1977 prices would be $3,700 ($6,100 for modern small industries and $1,400
for workshops). These ratios are much lower than the DFC average for Africa
of $17,000.






KENYA
APPRAISAL OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since independence the Kenya Government has been concerned with
establishing and assisting small-scale enterprises owned and managed by
Kenyans. Bilateral donors, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, Denmark,
and Norway, have provided substantial technical assistance and finance in this
area. Since 1972, the Government has been reviewing progress in the field
and has concluded that small enterprise development has reached the stage at
which consolidation of the activities of the institutions assisting the sector
is needed.
1.02      For several years, the Government and the World Bank have had dis-
cussions of possible assistance through a comprehensive project to accelerate
the growth of the small-scale enterprise sector. A Bank mission visited Kenya
in March/April 1976 to identify and prepare a project in this field. The
mission concluded that the first step towards consolidation of small enter-
prise development should be a project for assisting small enterprises in the
industrial sector because of the importance of this sector to Kenya's economic
recovery and because institution building was needed most in this area. The
project would be based on enhancing the responsibility of Kenya Industrial
Estates (KIE) to serve as the primary implementing agency for nationwide
small-scale industry development. A second Bank mission in November/December
1976 developed the details of the project proposed in this report.
1.03      The main objectives of the proposed credit are to:
a.   strengthen KIE to enable it to assume principal re-
sponsibility for further development of small scale
industry in Kenya;
b.   provide financing for the establishment and expansion
of small manufacturing enterprises; and
c.   provide technical assistance for the implementation of
the project through KIE and for advice on Government
policy in this field.
1.04      The proposed project would be the first nation-wide small industry
project for the Bank in a major country in Eastern Africa. In addition, it
would be the first small industry project in Africa in which both technical
assistance and financial intermediation are combined in one implementing
institution. Thus, the proposed project should serve to provide useful
information about one possible model for assisting small industry.
1.05      This project comes while the Government is reformulating its in-
dustrial policy to improve its resource utilization and reduce its heavy
import dependence in favor of more domestic resource-based production and



- 2 -
exports. The Bank Group is also assisting medium and large industries through
loans to the Industrial Development Bank (the latest of which was approved in
May 1977 for $20.0 million) and investments by the International Finance Cor-
poration.
II. SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY IN KENYA
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Kenya has a high population growth rate of 3.5% per year.  The
population was 13.4 million in 1975 compared to 11.2 million in 1970 and
is projected to grow to between 15 and 16 million by 1980. The population
growth rate is accompanied by a high rate of increase in the labor force,
which grew from 5.1 million in 1970 to 6.2 million in 1975. The labor
force is projected to increase to 7.4 million by 1980. These figures illus-
trate the major problem facing Kenya in providing employment opportunities.
2.02      Kenya's economy is primarily rural, with agriculture, the single
most important sector, contributing 31% of GDP in 1975 and providing employ-
ment for 85% of the labor force. In contrast, the manufacturing sector con-
tributed 14% to GDP in 1975.
The Industrial Sector
2.03      While most large industrial enterprises belonging to the modern
sector are located in urban areas, new enterprises are established more and
more in smaller towns . Enterprises wholly-owned and managed by Kenyans are
still few and more often found in small industries or even outside the modern
sector. Between 1964 and 1973, manufacturing output increased at an annual
rate of 8% (compared to 6% for GDP) and exports of industrial products
totalled Sh 1,460 million (about US$177 million) in 1973. However, the
sudden rise in petroleum and other import prices, the worldwide economic
recession, and a local drought caused a significant drop in the rate of growth
of industrial production to 5% in 1974 and 4% in 1975. Moreover, industrial
employment which had grown from 73,000 in 1968 to 104,000 in 1974, actually
declined to 102,000 in 1975. The industrial sector faces a particularly
difficult adjustment period, since its heavy dependence on imported capital
equipment, spare parts and raw materials means that it is strongly affected by
the foreign exchange position of the country. (The current situation in
Kenya is analyzed in the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Kenya,"
report number 124 8a-KE of October 15, 1976.)
B. Small Industries Sector
2.04      Reliable data on small industries in Kenya are not available.  The
Central Bureau of Statistics of the Ministry of Finance and Planning maintains
a list of "registered" firms including data on the number of employees.
However, artisans and craftsmen operating outside the formal sector are



-3-
not included in the Government statistics. The following table shows the
number of registered firms and total employment by size of firms for 1968,
1974 and 1975:
Industrial Sector - Size Distribution
and Employment 1968-1975
Average
Annual Rate of                  % Change
1968      1974       Growth 1968-74        1975      1974-75
Employees                        No. of Firms
1-50        4,020      4,477           + 2%            3,340        -25%
Over 50        275       420           + 7%               425       + 1%
Total        4,275     4,897           + 2%            3,765        -23%
Total Employment
1-50       18,071    20,168            + 2%           19,251        - 5%
Over 50    54,536    83,904            + 7%           82,982        - 1%
Total       72,607   104,072           + 6%          102,233        - 2%
2.05      The table shows that although 89% of the firms had 1-50 employees
in 1975, their total employment was 19% of total industrial employment.
Furthermore, small firms had a significantly lower growth rate between 1968
and 1974 than larger firms. Moreover, the decrease in firms and employment
during the 1975 recession was relatively much more severe in the small firm
segment. Small firms with 1-50 employees are heavily concentrated in foot-
wear, clothing, and furniture, whereas large firms are concentrated in food
and beverages, textiles, wood products, and transport equipment. About 60%
of all industries are located in Nairobi and 15% in Mombasa.
2.06      Most of the firms employing 1-50 are very small -- the average
number of employees is 6 -- and can be classified as "workshops" in which
simple, locally procured tools are used to make everyday articles such as
furniture or cooking ware. Only a few small firms are "modern". These
firms generally employ more than 20 persons, use imported equipment, have
semi-automated production processes, and produce goods approaching inter-
national quality standards. Most of the "modern" small firms owned and
operated by Africans have developed on the industrial estates owned and
managed by Kenyan Industrial Estates (KIE).
Manufacturing Output
2.07      In 1972 the Central Bureau of Statistics estimated value added by
size of firm. The results are shown in the following table:



-4-
Manufacturing Production, 1972
(Sh million)
Employees Per Firm
1-50          Over 50           Total
Output                       976            4,882            5,858
Input                        704            3,562            4,266
Value Added                  272            1,320            1,592
Percentage Distribution      17%             83%             100%
Value Added Per
Employee                     0.016          0.018            0.017
2.08      The table shows that small firms contributed 17% of total manufac-
turing value added in 1972 and that the value added per employee for these
firms was 90% of the value added per employee for large firms. The wages
per employee were considerably lower for small firms and profit as a percent-
age of sales was considerably higher. All these results except for the
value added per employee follow the worldwide pattern. The value added per
employee for small firms is much closer to the result for large firms than in
most other countries and raises doubt about the validity of the data.
The Informal Sector
2.09      In addition to registered firms, Kenya has a large informal sector
engaged in non-agricultural activities. This group is called informal because
enterprises usually do not pay company taxes, do not have a permanent loca-
tion, and do not use written records in their business transactions. Reliable
statistics on the informal sector are unavailable; however, surveys indicate
that the informal sector employed about 500,000 persons in 1974, of which about
80% was in rural areas and from 10 - 20% percent was engaged in manufacturing.
2.10      Typical manufacturing activities of the informal sector consist of
metal and woodworking shops, tailors, cobblers, repair shops, making of cook-
ing implements, blacksmiths, and tinsmiths. The activities are generally
carried out in the open or in temporary shelter without security or protection
from weather. The principal market for the informal sector is within the
sector itself and the rural subsistence farmers. The sector has received vir-
tually no assistance in the form of credit or technical assistance, but offers
considerable potential for growth through improved marketing and also repre-
sents a possible source of entrepreneurs for larger enterprises.
C. Assistance to Small-Scale Industry
2.11      Industry in Kenya before Independence in 1963 consisted mainly of
medium and large enterprises established by foreign investors. The few small



-5 -
industries were also mostly owned by non-Africans. Africans were limited
to artisanal activities and rural crafts.
2.12      After independence, one of the main aims of Kenya's industrial
strategy was to promote African ownership of industrial firms. Small scale
industry provided the best opportunity for immediate progress towards this
objective. The first program of assistance to small scale industry was a
credit scheme established in the Industrial and Commercial Development Cor-
poration (ICDC) in 1965. The beneficiaries of this program have primarily
been traditional small-scale industrial operations such as saw mills, maize
mills, vehicle repair shops, bakeries, print shops, and tailors. In 1967
the assistance to small industry was extended to the "modern" sector with
the establishment of Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) as a subsidiary of ICDC
and the construction of the Nairobi estate with German and Indian assistance.
The industrial estate program has been expanded with the development of
estates in Nakuru in 1972 (with German assistance), Kisumu in 1974 (with
Swedish assistance), Mombasa in 1975 (with German assistance), and Eldoret
in 1977 (initially with Danish assistance). In addition, KIE established
in 1972 with Danish assistance the Rural Industrial Development Program
(RIDP) to provide credit and technical assistance for workshops in rural
townships. This program is administered through Rural Industrial Development
Centers (RIDCs) currently located at Machakos, Nyeri, Embu, and Kakamega.
2.13      In 1972, the Government of Kenya set up an interministerial com-
mittee to evaluate the adequacy of existing programs for the development of
small business. The committee's report proposed that responsibility for
small business development be vested in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
and that the Government establish a Small Business Development Agency for
coordinating assistance to small-scale enterprises. The report recommended
that this new Agency should direct all institutions working in the field,
including the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), the Management Training and
Advisory Center (MTAC) and the Kenya Industrial Training Institute (KITI).
The report further concluded that the needs of small-scale traders and indus-
trialists were similar and that there was no need to establish separate field
services for each of these groups. Missions from Sweden and Denmark studied
the report and concluded, contrary to the views of the committee, that traders
and non-industrial businesses required a different type of extension service
and assistance program from that needed by small-scale industries.
2.14      In April 1976, a Bank preparation mission found that virtually
none of the major recommendations of the 1972 committee had been implemented.
Moreover, the mission concluded that because of the lengthy and complicated
process of creating a new institution, more could be achieved in the near-term
(3-5 years) through upgrading, reorganizing and strengthening the major exist-
ing institutions providing assistance to the sector. This approach coupled
with the establishment of a unit in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
with responsibility for small business policy, could gradually bring about
consolidation of all efforts in the field, with a possible emergence later of



- 6 -
a single organization for assistance to urban and rural small enterprises.
Finally, the mission concluded that the first step should be a project for
assisting small enterprises in the industrial sector because of the importance
of this sector to Kenya's economic recovery and because institution building
was needed most in this area. The project proposed in this report is based
on this approach.
Financing
2.15      The financial sector of Kenya is relatively well-developed with
thirteen commercial banks, three industrial development banks, and the Indus-
trial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) and its wholly owned sub-
sidiary, Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE). In addition, Nairobi has a stock
exchange although it has not been a major source of financing. The three
industrial development banks, Industrial Development Bank (IDB), Development
Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK), and East African Development Bank (EADB)
provide equity and loan financing primarily for medium and large industries.
Both IDB and DFCK assist industries with total project costs as low as Sh 1.0
million ($120,000) but their activities in this area have been small. ICDC
makes loans to industries with total project costs below Sh 1.0 million, but
also provides substantial financing for medium and large industries in coor-
dination with IDB. KIE's assistance has been to industries with total project
cost below Sh 4.0 million.
2.16      Commercial banks charge an effective rate of 10%, the three indus-
trial development banks charge 10-12%, and the ICDC and KIE provide industrial
loans at 8-8-1/2% while the inflations rate is about 10%. The principal
institution providing credit to small enterprises is ICDC (and its subsidiary
KIE). In addition, the International Finance Corporation has approved a loan
of $2 million to be channelled through the Kenya Commercial Bank (para 2.19)
for assistance to small and medium industries.
Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
2.17      ICDC was established in 1955 to promote and assist commercial and
industrial activities and since Independence has emphasised financing trans-
fer of businesses from non-Kenyans to Kenyans. Its activities have grown
rapidly and its assets exceed Sh 480 million. Forty five percent of ICDC's
assets are in its small loans portfolio; however, only 12% of its assets are
in small loans for industry, which include equipment loans for firms on the
Nairobi and Nakuru industrial estates. The remaining small loans are com-
mercial and property loans. ICDC also lends to its subsidiary KIE for the
construction of industrial estates. If the construction loans are combined
with those to small industry, the resulting total is Sh 94 million or 20% of
ICDC's assets.
2.18      ICDC's main emphasis has been the establishment of large enter-
prises, wholly or partially owned by ICDC, and only limited staff and funds



have been available to assist small industries. Project appraisal for small
loans has not been rigorous and debt collection has not been actively pur-
sued. As a result the small loan portfolio has a comparatively high level of
arrears, although the arrears situation is somewhat better for the machinery
loans on the Nairobi and Nakuru estates (Annex 6). As of June 1976, arrears
totalled 26% of interest arrears plus principal outstanding for the entire
small loan portfolio whereas the corresponding figures are 32% for small
industry loans off the estates and 16% for firms on the estates. ICDC's
staffing is inadequate for providing loan supervision or technical assistance
to its small borrowers.
Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB)
2.19      KCB is the largest commercial bank in Kenya and is wholly Government
owned. KCB has provided financial assistance to small industries, through
credits for working capital against collateral. The International Finance
Corporation approved in 1976 a small and medium scale industries project for
Kenya (Report IFC/P-238 of June 22, 1976). The loan of $2 million will be
administered by KCB for assistance to small and medium industries who have
been in existence for two or three years and have shown promise of growth, but
whose further development is hampered by financial and technical constraints.
KCB will contribute about $2 million of its own funds towards the financing
packages. Maximum loans are expected to be $300,000. In order to provide
appropriate on-going assistance to borrowers under the IFC project, KCB has
undertaken to set up special procedures for credit appraisal and supervision,
and provision of business advisory services. For project implementation, two
advisors have been provided to KCB through the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation (U.K.).
Technical Guidance and Services
2.20      Considerable efforts have been made since 1967 to help potential
Kenyan entrepreneurs to establish and operate small-scale industries. Kenyan
Africans in particular have had no previous tradition or experience in
running industrial enterprises other than simple artisan workshops. Most
entrepreneurs have some technical background but need help in the selection,
installation, and operation of machinery. Record keeping and financial
administration is weak. Since most entrepreneurs are production oriented,
marketing is a serious problem; it is made more difficult in some cases
by inadequate quality control and poor product design. Thus technical
guidance is needed by practically all newly established African small-scale
industries in Kenya. In addition, institutions working in this field need
technical assistance in project identification, preparation and appraisal,
new product development and management training.
2.21      The main technical services to date for small Kenyan industries
has been provided through KIE. It has concentrated on the 70 industries
operating on KIE's industrial estates (Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu) and the



-8 -
small rural workshops which are part of a KIE program to assist industrial
development in rural towns (Rural Industrial Development Program - RIDP).
The technical services for firms on the estates has covered all areas
from project preparation to production and marketing. For the small rural
workshops, technical services have mostly been limited to the provision
of common shop facilities and product development. All technical services
of KIE have been associated with the provision of credit from ICDC or KIE
itself. ICDC has established a Loan Supervision Department to provide assist-
ance but the officers involved have had to concentrate on debt collection.
All technical services provided through KIE have been without charge to the
entrepreneur.
2.22      Most of the technical services to small Kenyan enterprises until
now has been by expatriate advisers, and all Kenyan institutions have received
such help. As of December 1976 nine German technical advisers, five Swedes,
four Danes, and one Norwegian were working throughout the country as part of
KIE. The number of Swedish advisers was reduced to three in 1977 and the
Danish and Norwegian advisers left by mid-1977. Many advisers have worked
outside KIE headquarters providing daily assistance on the industrial estates
of Nairobi, Nakuru, Kisumu, and Mobasa as well as at the administrative cen-
ters for the Rural Industrial Development Program.
Management Training and Advisory Center (MTAC)
2.23      The MTAC in Nairobi has been working for over 10 years in developing
programs of management training for Kenyan industries. It has, since 1971,
been making special efforts to provide training programs for Kenyans in small-
scale business. Until 1976 it benefitted from a number of UNDP/ILO advisers,
but the center is now working with only Kenyan staff. Although some Kenyan
businessmen have received assistance from MTAC courses, the impact of the
center's work on the indigenous small-scale industry sector has been small.
Kenya Industrial Training Institute (KITI)
2.24      Another institution providing technical training for Kenyan entre-
preneurs is the KITI in Nakuru created in 1965 by the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry. KITI has received Japanese technical assistance and has pro-
duced more than 400 graduates in its first 10 years of operation. KITI
estimates that 100 of its graduates have established their own enterprises,
primarily repair shops or artisan operations in the metal working and wood-
working fields.
Industrial Survey and Promotion Center (ISPC)
2.25      The ISPC was established in 1970 as an agency of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry. Its role was to enable the Government to exert
catalytic action on industrial development by identifying, developing and
evaluating new projects. UNIDO has assisted ISPC since its establishment.
The rather uneven quality of its reports led to a UNDP evaluation mission
in 1975, which recommended intensification of ISPC's project work and



-9-
addition of sector and area studies and the promotion of appropriate tech-
nology. The Government agreed with the recommendations and to underline
the importance it attaches to ISPC, appointed a Kenyan director and authorized
an expansion in the number of Kenyan professionals. UNDP/UNIDO continue to
support ISPC. In practice, ISPC is gradually building up a competent Kenyan
staff and is now working on a number of projects mainly for large scale
industries and to some extent also for small scale industries. Appropriate
technology in bread production is another ongoing activity. In addition,
ISPC is participating in the general industrial policy formulation, for
instance through the preparation of the next Development Plan.
2.26      The impact of the financial and technical assistance institutions
on small industry development has been significant, especially in comparison
with most other African countries. Substantial financial assistance has
been provided through ICDC and the commercial banks and a large amount of
technical assistance has been provided primarily through KIE. The institu-
tions closest to implementation (ICDC and KIE) have been more effective than
the training and promotion institutions. For this reason, as well as the
inefficient fragmentation of effort among institutions, the project proposed
here provides for the consolidation of financial and technical assistance
through the strengthening of KIE. In addition KIE would enhance its project
promotion and extension roles and take a more active part in the arrangement
of training programs.
D. Government Policies
2.27      Industrialization has been a principal objective of Kenyan Govern-
ment economic policy since Independence, and in the Development Plan for
1974/78 a target of 10.2% per year growth was set for the manufacturing
sector. However, as discussed in paragraph 2.03, the actual growth rate
in the sector declined to 5% in 1974 and to 4% in 1975. A substantial re-
covery has occurred since, and the Government believes that in 1977-78, the
manufacturing sector will approach the target growth rate.
2.28      The Government is currently reformulating its strategy for the
industrial sector, because Kenya has to reduce its import dependency and
increase its exports, especially in view of the changes in world market prices
including oil prices since 1973/74. Moreover, the scope for additional
investment in import substitution industries has become limited. Thus, the
Government intends to change the incentive system in order to give export
industries the same encouragement as those for import substitution and to
promote in particular industries based on local raw materials. Several steps
have already been taken in recent years such as the introduction of import
duties on raw materials and capital goods, an export compensation of 10% of
export value, an 8% devaluation and the increase of sales taxes on imported
and domestically produced non-essentials. But of late, progress in policy
adjustment has slowed down somewhat because industrial problems related to
the economic recession and break-up of the East African Community demanded
immediate attention. The Government is now addressing the industrial policy
issues as part of the preparations for the next Development Plan (FY79-83).



- 10 -
2.29      Measures under consideration include Government assistance in
identifying domestic sources for parts and materials, providing foreign
exchange and credit guidelines for channeling resources to the highest
priority industries, a critical examination of the import licensing system and
its support of inefficient monopolistic positions, and an export subsidy plan.
In addition, the Government intends to use duties and sales taxes on capital
goods to give preferences to labor intensive methods of production and to
encourage use of idle capacity. Moreover, in order to stimulate local raw
material use and labor intensive production, to achieve a better balance in
the geographical distribution of employment opportunities, and to promote
local ownership of industry, the Government plans to give more support to
the development of small scale industry because it serves these objectives
better than large industries.
2.30      Kenya has adopted a policy of free enterprise development and thus
relies primarily on entrepreneurial initiative for industrial development.
Within this context, Government policy has helped small scale industry con-
siderably. Interest rates for small industries have been 2-3 points below
those for medium and large industries and rents have been heavily subsidized
on the KIE industrial estates. The shift towards domestic resource-based
production is the most important policy change in support of small industries
since these industries use local resources more than larger industries.
2.31      In the past, direct Government support for small firms has been
provided primarily through financial assistance. Apart from guaranteeing
substantial German loans for industrial estate construction and the equipping
of factories in Nairobi, Nakuru and Mombasa, the Kenyan Government has pro-
vided Sh 36 million ($4.3 million) for construction of estates and equipment
loans. In addition, the Government has provided an annual grant for admin-
istrative expenses of KIE; this grant reached Sh 6 million ($720,000) for
1976. These amounts are large by African standards.
2.32      The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is being reorganized to
accommodate the policy changes being worked out in connection with the new
Development Plan. A New Project Committee, which has existed for some time,
has been given a new emphasis. This Committee, which draws its membership
from several ministries and development institutions, is charged with the
responsibility of reviewing all large scale industrial projects whether
private or Government sponsored. During the project negotiations, the
Government has confirmed that as part of its reorganization, the Ministry
will also engage specialized staff to coordinate small scale industry programs.
This net unit is expected to review and recommend Government budget support
for the institutions servicing the small industry sector, and to help the
Government in defining priority industries for small-scale development. The
proposed project includes the funding of an expatriate technical advisor for
this unit. In addition, the Government has agreed to promote cooperation
between KIE and other institutions concerned with small scale industry,
including MTAC (para 2.23), KITI (para 2.24), and the Rural Technology Centre
at Nakuru which was established recently under the Ministry of Agriculture for
testing new agricultural and rural transport equipment.



- 11 -
E. Prospects
2.33      The opportunity for small industry development appears good.  The
economy is recovering from the 1974-75 recession and just as small industries
suffered most from the recession, they are expected to show the strongest
recovery. Moreover, as indicated in paragraph 2.29 the shift in Government
policy towards supporting domestic resource-based industries should benefit
the small industry sector. In addition, many possibilities for new products
based on local materials exist for small industries (Annex 16). Finally,
the free enterprise climate provides entrepreneurs of small industries the
possibility of expansion.
2.34      Past experience in Kenya shows that with sufficient financial
and technical assistance, small industries have developed successfully.
Seventy modern small industries have been established during the past ten
years on KIE estates. Progress has been slower than the Government and
bilateral donors had hoped, but the accomplishment is significant. Already
some small industries that started on the estates have been able to expand to
medium industries off the estates. A shoe factory now employing 115 persons
has moved off the Nairobi estate. A second factory on the Nairobi estate
manufacturing hinges is ready to make a similar move.
2.35      The principal constraint to progress for small industry appears
to be the development of entrepreneurship. It is difficult to judge the
rate at which new entrepreneurs can be found and trained. Moreover, the
selection of potential entrepreneurs is difficult and is based to a great
extent on trial and error. This problem will become less severe as entre-
preneurial traditions become established in industry. Moreover, business
development among Kenyans in certain regions of the country indicates that
sufficient entrepreneurs are available. However, substantial financial
and technical assistance will be necessary for providing potential entre-
preneurs with the means for development. In view of the overall prospects for
small industry, this support should be worthwhile.
III. KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
A. Organization and Procedures
Objectives
3.01      Kenya Industrial Estates was established in 1967 as a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC),
a Government corporation. Its main objective has been the development of
Kenyan African entrepreneurship through the establishment of small scale
industries and its main activity has been the development and management of
industrial estates for these industries. KIE has two estates fully occupied
(Nairobi and Nakuru), two estates partially occupied (Kisumu and Mombasa) and
one estate almost ready for initial occupancy (Eldoret). In addition KIE
manages a rural industrial development program to assist small industries
outside towns. (See Annex 19 for map showing sites of KIE activities, as of
December 1976).



- 12 -
Board of Directors
3.02      In the past, the Executive Director of ICDC was the Chairman of
KIE'S Board. Other members of the board included the Permanent Secretaries of
the Ministries of Commerce and Industry, and of Finance and Planning, and
three representatives of the industrial and commercial community of Kenya.
The Board of Directors has been making decisions on the establishment of new
industrial estates and also approving projects and selecting entrepreneurs.
In view of KIE's expanded role, the Government increased KIE's share capital
from its nominal value to Sh. 50 million and became the direct owner of
KIE in September 1977. In addition to the two Permanent Secretaries, the
new Board now includes KIE's Managing Director and will be eventually com-
pleted with three representatives of the industrial community. It is chaired
by the Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Industry. The daily management of
KIE is handled by the Managing Director and his Deputy, who have been in their
positions since 1968. KIE's senior management is capable of implementing
the project proposed.
Organization and Staff
3.03      As of December 1976, Kenya Industrial Estates had a staff of 200, of
which 26 were Kenyan professionals. (In addition 19 expatriate advisors were
assisting KIE). About 80 staff members were working at the administrative
headquarters of KIE, located at the Nairobi Industrial Estate. In addition,
KIE had 14 vacant professional positions. KIE had encountered considerable
professional staffing difficulties, especially in recruiting Kenyan economists,
engineers and accountants. In 1977, 8 of the expatriates left after termina-
tion of their contract but KIE has put in major efforts to strengthen its
staff capability to cope with the projected operations. The number of Kenyan
professionals was increased to 40 by September 1977. KIE's future staffing
plan is analysed in para 4.07.
Finance
3.04      KIE headquarters has two principal departments, Finance and Pro-
jects. At the time of appraisal, the Finance Department was inadequately
staffed to handle its responsibilities for the loan portfolio, the collection
of rents from estate properties and accounting. Prior to the 1975 audit, KIE
financial affairs involved a number of inconsistencies and errors in the
accounts. In addition, inadequate attention was given to notifying borrowers
and renters of payments due and to pursuing delinquent accounts. KIE hired a
credit controller to handle the loan portfolio in 1976 and further strengthened
the department during 1977. A senior accountant was recruited to serve as
Rent Controller and an experienced professional from ICDC was appointed Senior
Financial Officer. In addition, the proposed IDA project includes the pro-
vision of an expatriate advisor in the department. His responsibilities would
include assistance in the design, implementation, and monitoring of satis-
factory systems of portfolio management, rent collection, and accounting.
Projects
3.05      The Projects Department at KIE headquarters consists of three
economists and two engineers. In addition the estates outside Nairobi



- 13 -
have eight positions for one economist and one engineer each. By 1976,
these estates only had one engineer and three economists, but in 1977 KIE has
appointed three other engineers on the estates. The Projects Department at
Headquarters and the economists and engineers at the estates are responsible
for project identification, preparation and evaluation. In practice much of
this work has been done by the eight foreign advisors on the estates, who are
well qualified to provide this assistance.
Loan Approvals
3.06      Loans for equipment for industries on the Nairobi and Nakuru
estates have been processed through ICDC after approval of the-KIE Board of
Directors. Loans for enterprises on the Kisumu estate are processed directly
by KIE after approval by a locally constituted loan committee; a similar
agreement is now being reached for projects on the Mombasa estate. A loan
fund for the Rural Industrial Development Program has also been handled
directly by KIE after loans are approved by local loan committees.
3.07      The KIE project appraisal report follow a format that does not
vary enough with project size. As a result, too much detail is developed
for projects under Sh 100,000 ($12,000) and not enough analysis is provided
for projects over Sh 1.0 million ($120,000). For projects under Sh 100,000
the assessment of the entrepreneur is by far the most important aspect of
evaluation and should be emphasized more. For projects over Sh 1.0 million,
the major weakness is in the financial appraisal and market analysis. For
these projects KIE should calculate a financial and economic rate of return.
In addition, the grace period and maturity should be tailored to the nature
of the project rather than be uniform. Finally for projects over Sh 1.0
million, the appraisals should include a discussion of the adequacy of
project management. The proposed project includes the provision of an ex-
patriate advisor to assist KIE in establishing appropriate appraisal methods
for projects of various sizes and in training the Kenyan staff in these
methods.
Technical Services Centers
3.08      As part of the operation of the Nairobi industrial estate, KIE has
been operating a Technical Services Center (TSC), which is a central workshop.
The T.S.C. employs 20 people and makes tools, jigs, fixtures and certain parts
for client factories on the estate. Recently it has also produced such items
for factories outside the estate. A similar T.S.C. has been installed on the
Nakuru Industrial Estate but is not yet operational. T.S.C.s are also being
set up at Kisumu and Mombasa.
Rural Industrial Development Centers
3.09      Since 1971 KIE has also administered a rural industrial development
program, which has operated through four Rural Industrial Development Centers
(RIDCs) at Nyeri, Kakamega, Embu and Machakos. About a third of KIE's employ-
ees are at the RIDCs. In the National Development Plan for 1974-1978, it



- 14 -
was envisaged that 23 RIDCs would be established by 1978. However, only
four new RIDCs are presently under implementation and the number will fall
short of the development plan. As of June 30, 1976, 70 loans were outstanding
to clients of RIDCs.
B.   Resources
3.10      As of June 1976 the Government and ICDC had committed a total of
Sh. 36 million of their own funds to KIE for construction of estates and
loans for equipment. However, most of KIE's resources had come from bilateral
donors: KfW had committed Sh 32 million; SIDA, Sh 26 million; DANIDA, Sh 12
million; and NORAD, Sh 2 million.  These resources were transferred to KIE
over time as grants or loans, from the Government or through ICDC. At the
time of appraisal, the terms of these transfers were not clear and the
auditors noted in the 1976 report that it had not been determined whether
Sh 8.2 million included in the report as an ICDC loan was a loan or a grant.
After reviewing KIE's capital structure, the Government confirmed recently
that KfW funds were loans and all other resources were grants to KIE, as per
the original terms. In addition to these resources, the Government has been
providing annual administration grants to cover KIE's operating deficit.
These grants were included in operating income (Annex 7) and totalled Sh. 27
million through June 1977. KfW also provided Sh. 64 million for loans for
equipment to be made by ICDC to firms on the Nairobi and Nakuru estates.
3.11      As of June 1976, KIE had Sh 15 million in foreign resources avail-
able for commitment and Sh 6 million in local resources (Annex 4). These
resources will be used for the Kisumu and Mombasa estates and the rural
industrial development program. In 1977, KIE has asked KfW for new loans of
Sh. 32 million to finance the establishment of an estate in Kakamega.
C.   Past Operations
3.12      KIE's principal activities has been the construction and operation
of industrial estates. As of June 1976, approximately 200,000 square feet
of factory space had been occupied by 70 industries on industrial estates
in Nairobi, Nakuru, and Kisumu. Seventy five percent of the total
space occupied was at the Nairobi estate and 15% at Nakuru. Both the Nakuru
and Kisumu estates has another 45,000 square feet each ready for occupancy,
and approximately 80,000 square feet of factory space was under construction
at Mombasa and 40,000 square feet at Eldoret. In addition, KIE had con-
structed 6,000 square feet for work sheds at rural industrial promotion
areas in Kakamega, Embu, and Machakos. Annex 8 summarizes the results of
the KIE construction program.
3.13      The loans for the equipment for the factories at the Nairobi and
Nakuru estates were made by ICDC (Annex 6). KIE's lending activities began
in 1973 with loans to clients of the Nyeri Rural Industrial Development Center.
In 1974 loans were made to clients of the rural industrial development centers
at Kakamega, Embu, and Machakos, and in 1975, KIE began financing equipment
for the factories of the Kisumu estate.



- 15 -
3.14      KIE's loan approvals as of June 1976 totalled Sh 8.6 million,
of which two-thirds was approved in 1975-76 (Annex 5). Eighty percent of
the loans were for amounts less than Sh 50,000 ($6,000); however, 50% of
the amount was for two loans over Sh 1 million each (a tannery and a sugar
factory). Forty percent of the number of loans was for industries involving
wood products but fifty percent of the total amount was for food (reflecting
the large loan for sugar). The 70 operating factories on the Nairobi, Nakuru,
and Kisumu estates have created approximately 1,100 jobs at a fixed asset
cost per job in 1977 prices of $7,000, which is about average for modern
small scale industry.
D. Financial Position and Results
Portfolio
3.15      As of June 1976 arrears of more than three months amounted to 5%
of principal outstanding, and 13% of the loan portfolio was affected by
such arrears. However, most KIE loans were still in their grace period
and evaluation is premature. Eighty percent of the arrears are for loans
made through the Nyeri Rural Industrial Development Center, and 98% of the
principal outstanding at Nyeri is for loans more than three months in arrears.
The manager has been changed at Nyeri, and the loan approval, disbursement,
and collection system has improved. The Government now intends to transfer
to KIE the equipment loans made by ICDC to firms on Nairobi and Nakuru estates.
Until now, KIE has been renting its facilities and providing technical assis-
tance to these firms without having a comprehensive view of their financial
situation. Considering the high arrear rate in ICDC's portfolio, the Govern-
ment agreed to insure that no doubtful debts will be passed on to KIE in the
process. After deducting substantial provisions, the Government estimates the
net portfolio to be transferred at about Sh 40 million.
Rental Collection
3.16       Despite the fact that KIE's rental rates are only about 50% of
market rates, rental collections in 1976 of Sh 0.89 million were only 84% of
rent charged of Sh 1.06 million. Total rent due at the end of 1976 including
rent receivables from previous years was Sh 0.71 million. The appointment
of a Rent Controller (para 3.04) should now improve the collection of rents.
As reflected in KIE's new Policy Statement (Annex 1), KIE and the Government
have now agreed that KIE should set rent level so as to cover the long run cost
of construction and maintenance. KIE already increased rents by 40% in May
1977.
Financial Position
3.17      KIE's balance sheets for 1973 through 1976 are shown at Annex 7.
KIE's total assets have grown from Sh 18.1 million in 1973 to Sh 80.6 million
in 1976, an average annual increase of 64%. Total assets in 1976 were com-
posed of fixed assets (51%), loan portfolio (10%), and current assets (39%).
KIE's high liquidity results from the disbursement to KIE of donor funds



- 16 -
(primarily SIDA) prior to KIE's disbursement for construction and equip-
ment loans. KIE's liabilities and equity at the end of 1976 consisted of
Sh 70.0 million (87%) in Government and ICDC loans, Sh 7.4 million (9%) in
grants, Sh 4.6 million (6%) in current liabilities, a capital reserve of
Sh 5.1 million (6%), and an accumulated loss of Sh 6.5 million, which amounted
to 8% of total liabilities and equity. Of the Sh 70 million provided by
Government directly or through ICDC, Sh 23 million were in fact loans from KfW
and all the remaining funds were grants (para. 3.10). In September 1977, the
Government increased KIE's paid in capital from its nominal amount to Sh 50
million, by converting grants from various sources as shown in the estimated
1977 balance sheet (Annex 10).
Income and Expenses
3.18      Income statements for 1973-76 (Annex 7) show that KIE's income and
expenses have grown sharply. Administrative expenses (excluding expatriates
paid directly by bilateral programs) were 10.5% of average total assets
in 1976. This unusually high level results from (1) the large component of
technical services necessary for the development of small industries, and
(2) KIE's large administrative support staff, the growth of which leads the
growth of assets since full complements of support staff need to be in place
during the early phases of implementation of estates and RIDCs. KIE's income
has principally come from an annual Government administration grant. This
grant of Sh 6.0 million in 1976 provided 80% of KIE's income. It is so large
mainly because (1) KIE's administrative expenses are relatively high and the
financial return from the estates under implementation will not reach full
potential until the estates were operational, (2) until 1977, KIE's rental
charges were about one half the level indicated by the current value of fac-
tories, mortgage rates, and maintenance costs, (3) KIE's interest rate of 8%
is two to three points below the market rate for medium and long term indus-
trial financing, and (4) KIE did not aggressively pursue interest and rental
collections. Even with the annual Government grant, KIE has experienced
a loss in each of the past four years; the loss in 1976 was Sh 1.5 million.
Audit of Accounts
3.19      KIE's auditors are Coopers and Lybrand, Nairobi, a well qualified
firm. The auditors have been providing KIE with a "short form" report, but
are familiar with the "long form" requirements of the Bank and are fully
capable of providing such a report, which IDA will require beginning with
1978.
E. Projections
Forecast of Operations
3.20      In view of KIE's high recent rate of growth, the Government's
interest in assisting small industry, and the significant potential for
the development of small industry in Kenya, KIE's business prospects are
good. Forecasts of disbursements shown in Annex 9 indicate that KIE's



- 17 -
operational area of emphasis will be the provision of credit, with the dis-
bursement of approximately Sh 190 million in loans 1979-82. In addition,
KIE is projected to disburse over the same period, approximately Sh 25 mil-
lion for buildings and equipment at industrial estates and rural and urban
industrial promotion areas. These operations would comprise (1) the com-
pletion of the industrial estates at Kisumu, Mombasa, and Eldoret and the
first stages of the establishment of two new estates at Kakamega and Nyeri
(2) approximately 17 rural and urban industrial promotion areas and (3) appro-
ximately 35 modern small industries located off the estates.
Resource Needs
3.21      KIE has commitments from KfW, SIDA, and the Government to cover
virtually all of the foreign and local costs for the completion of the con-
struction and the provision of credit for the Kisumu and Mombasa estates
(Sh 40 million). In addition approximately Sh 5 million remains to be dis-
bursed from the NORAD grant and the Government's commitment for the Eldoret
estate. The remaining resource gap through 1981 would be covered by internal-
ly generated funds (Sh 50 million), the part of the IDA credit loaned to KIE
(Sh 76 million), an expected new loan of about Sh 32 million from KfW for the
Kakamega Estate, and other borrowings of approximately Sh 10 million.
3.22      The operational forecasts and resulting resource gap are based
on growth rates derived from consideration of (1) growth potential for small
industry in Kenya, (2) expansion capacity of KIE, and (3) resources likely
to be available. In view of the contributions of other donors to KIE,
coordination of financing for KIE will continue to be necessary and opera-
tional forecasts and resource needs will be reviewed frequently during super-
vision.
Financial Projections
3.23      The projections of KIE's financial position (Annexes 10, 11, and 12)
assume substantial improvements in KIE's financial policies, including pri-
marily (1) increase in KIE's interest rate to 10-11%, the current market rate
for medium and long term industrial financing, (2) increase in rental charges
to reflect the costs of construction and maintenance, (3) conversion to share
capital of Sh 50 million of past grants from the Government and ICDC, and
(4) significant improvement in procedures for debt and rental collection and
tighter control of administrative expenses. The share capital increase took
effect in September 1977, and the interest and rent policy improvement were
agreed upon during negotiations and embodied in KIE's new Policy Statement
which was approved by its Board in October 1977.
3.24      Reflecting the forecast of operations, KIE's total assets would
grow from Sh 80 million in 1976 to Sh 256 million in 1982, and KIE's loan
portfolio would grow from Sh 8 million to Sh 166 million over the same period.
Long term borrowings and equity would increase correspondingly from Sh 76
million in 1976 to Sh 253 million in 1982. KIE's debt/equity ratio falls
from 11.8 in 1976 to 0.4 in 1977 after the conversion of Sh 50 million in debt



- 18 -
to share capital, and then, with the substantial borrowing of IDA funds, would
increase to 2.7 in 1982, which is still satisfactory. (Selected past and
projected financial ratios are provided in Annex 13).
3.25      With the improved financial policies, the Government administration
grant required for KIE to break even would decrease from Sh 8.32 million
in 1978 to zero in 1982. KIE's administrative expenses as a percentage of
total assets would decline from 10.5% in 1976 to 7.1% in 1982. These levels
are high in relation to other DFC's but are acceptable in view of KIE's
substantial technical assistance activities. Moreover, the decline in the
ratio reflects tighter control of administrative expenses and the fact that
the administrative support staff is adequate for all estates under implemen-
tation. KIE's cost of debt would increase from 1.3% in 1976 to 4.2% in 1982
as a result of the substantial borrowing from Government of IDA funds at 6%.
KIE's projected debt service ratio would decline from 5.0 in 1979 to 1.6 in
1982 with the IDA borrowing, but the 1982 level is satisfactory. Overall,
projections of KIE's financial position are subject to considerably more
uncertainty than for most DFCs because of KIE's many administrative activities
and lack of experience for loss rates on loans and rents. However, the
projections indicate that KIE has a reasonable chance of achieving a sound
financial position by 1982.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The objective of the project is to strengthen KIE to enable it
to assume the principal responsibility for further development of small
scale industry in Kenya. In order to carry out this expanded role, KIE will
be reorganized and upgraded to improve its capability to act as the prin-
cipal financial intermediary for the small-scale industry sector as well
as to enhance its technical assistance capacity. Its financial policies
and management are being changed to provide KIE with the autonomy necessary to
borrow on its own. Apart from $1.0 million earmarked for technical assistance
to KIE, the project includes $9.2 million for industrial estate construction
and credit for small industrial firms. This amount would provide about 10% of
the national investment in the small industry sector over the four year period
1979-82.
B. KIE Reorganization and Expansion
4.02      The principal features of the proposed reorganization are:-
(1) Establishment of 7 regional centers to be located
at Nairobi, Nakuru, Mombasa, Kisumu, Eldoret and
Nyeri and Kakamega.
(2) Coordination of KIE's technical guidance to entre-
preneurs and follow-up activities.



- 19 -
(3) Upgrading and expansion of financial management staff
at headquarters and at the regional centers.
4.03      In view of the projected growth in portfolio and number of assisted
enterprises, KIE will create a new Extension Services Department at head-
quarters to coordinate and promote technical assistance and follow-up activi-
ties throughout the organization. The project provides for an expatriate
advisor to help in setting up the department. In the field, KIE will assign
staff on a regular basis as specified in the Project Agreement, to advise
entrepreneurs on new product development, marketing (Annex 18), financial
management and production techniques, and bulk purchasing arrangements.
4.04      Because of increased size and responsibility, KIE would decentralize
its operations to cover the entire country through regional centers. Each
regional center would manage all KIE activities in that region including
development of industries on and off the estates as well as rural and urban
workshops within the region. The regional centers would be primarily re-
sponsible for project identification and preparation, selection of entre-
preneurs, and implementation of small-scale industry projects as well as
ongoing technical assistance.
4.05      The regional centers would prepare and appraise all projects requir-
ing financial support of up to Sh 1 million. The regional loan committees 1/
would have authority to approve loans up to Sh 500,000. Furthermore, the
regional centers would be responsible for the collection of loan and rents.
4.06      Headquarters project staff would identify, prepare and appraise
projects requiring financing of over Sh 1.0 million, and the KIE Board would
approve all loans of over Sh 500,000. The headquarters project staff would
be responsible for the establishment of policies, standards and procedures
for project work throughout the organization and for monitoring regional
operations. Headquarters would also provide the regions with specialized
staff from the Extension Services Department for assistance in marketing
extension and training. The financial management staff at headquarters would
establish systems and procedures for loan administration and rental collection
throughout the country, for monitoring regional financial operations and for
preparation of consolidated reports. The final organization chart at full
operation would be as indicated in Annex 2.
4.07      In accordance with this reorganization, KIE has prepared the staff-
ing plan presented in Annex 3. The total number of staff to be recruited
through 1981 will be 65, including 18 senior professionals and the 5 expa-
triates funded under the project. Of the 60 Kenyans, 7 will be posted in the
new Extension Services Department, 9 in other headquarters' positions, and
10 in senior technical positions at the regions (economists, engineers,
accountants). The remaining 34 will be posted in the industrial promotion
areas, 20 as technicians and 14 as managers. The IPA technicians will
1/   The Regional Loan Committee will consist of the Manager, the Economist,
the Engineer and the Accountant of the region.



- 20 -
provide workshop entrepreneurs with basic day-to-day advice in production,
marketing, finance and management. The regional economists would be re-
sponsible for project preparation and the engineers would be in charge of
equipment selection, installation, ongoing technical and management assis-
tance, and supervision of technical service centers. KIE will continue to
rely on the existing eleven expatriate economists and engineers during the
project period particularly for project follow-up and provision of technical
assistance in the regions but the recruitment of local economists and engineers
is included for replacement of the advisers through 1982. The additional
administrative costs of the reorganization and expansion are included in the
financial projections and amount to a 76% increase of administrative expenses
in real terms over the period 1978-82 (Annex 11).
4.08      One of the most difficult aspects of KIE's expansion will be the
hiring of suitable Kenyan technical personnel for the regional centers and
the industrial promotion areas. KIE is preparing for its Kenyan staff a
comprehensive on-the-job training program. In addition, the project includes
funds for specialized training of KIE's staff. The appointment of the tech-
nical staff at Eldoret and on the industrial promotion areas is essential
for the implementation of the IDA project. It was therefore agreed at the
negotiations that suitably qualified and experienced technical staff would be
appointed before IDA disburses funds for construction on each site.
C.   KIE Policies
4.09      KIE so far has not had a statement of policies to guide its oper-
ations in loan financing, technical services and estate management. Nor has
it so far adopted financial policies which would impart financial, discipline
to its operations or contribute to evolution of KIE's financial autonomy. In
order to meet these objectives, IDA assisted KIE in drafting a suitable policy
statement. An agreed version of the statement appears as Annex 1.
4.10      In the past KIE did not have a specific policy on the maximum size
for projects to be assisted. In the early years a project size of Sh 2 mil-
lion in fixed assets was considered to be the upper limit for KIE projects,
but recently several projects having fixed assets of over Sh 2.5 million, and
in some cases even above Sh 4.0 million, have been set up on the industrial
estates. Moreover, the various bilateral donors have fixed different limits
for financing under their respective lines of credit. SIDA had originally set
an upper limit of Sh 1.5 million for projects on the Kisumu Estate, whereas
KfW resources financed larger enterprises in Nairobi and Nakuru. KIE's in-
vestment policies now provide that it will not invest in any enterprise whose
fixed assets, including permanent working capital, would exceed Sh 5 million
after the investment. This upper limit is in line with the definition
of Small-Scale Enterprises used in the draft new Development Plan, but it
implies some overlapping with the operations of other financing institutions,
namely IDB and DFCK, which finance projects having fixed assets of over
Sh I million. However, not more than 5% of their financing has gone to
enterprises whose assets are below Sh 5 million. IDB is contemplating to
raise its floor limit to Sh 2-3 million. The Government agreed at the



- 21 -
negotiations that KIE will seek to co-finance the larger projects (Sh 3-5
million) with the other financial intermediaries which have the appraisal
capacity to handle them, rather than attempt to build up its own capacity to
appraise them at this stage.
4.11      In spite of the upper limit of Sh5 million fixed for projects to
be assisted by KIE, it is expected that KIE would focus on financing projects
of relatively smaller size. For instance, out of $8.7 million available for
subloans under the Credit, only a maximum of $3 million could be on-lent to
enterprises having fixed assets valued at over Sh I million. Furthermore,
the maximum amount of sub-loan to an enterprise under IDA Credit has been set
at Sh 2.4 million.
4.12      KIE's policy statement also lays down the proportion of its financing
in enterprises of various sizes. KIE is authorized to invest up to 85% of the
total costs in an enterprise whose fixed assets, including permanent working
capital, do not exceed Sh 3.0 million in value whereas it can invest only up
to 80% of the total costs in larger enterprises. In keeping with the national
objectives and strategies KIE is required to give special consideration to
enterprises which, among other things, emphasize the creation of employment in
relation to the capital invested. In particular, KIE will endeavour, in its
financing operations to maintain capital costs perjob created below Sh 40,000
in 1977 prices ($4,800).
Financial Policies and Structure
4.13      In order to promote KIE's financial autonomy a number of agreements
were reached at negotiations.  These relate to higher interest rates, better
structured rents, avoidance of exchange risk on foreign currency transactions,
capitalization, subsidies and a debt covenant.
4.14      KIE agreed to increase the rate of interest on its loans from the
present 8% per annum to 10% on loans for projects whose total cost does not
exceed Sh I million, and to 11% on all other loans. KIE also agreed to fix
the rent of factory and workshop premises at levels which would reflect the
long-run marginal costs of the facilities. KIE's policy statement includes a
provision whereby it will avoid exchange risk on foreign currency transactions.
For the time being the Government will assume the exchange risk on all KIE's
foreign currency subloans.
4.15      The Kenya Government has already decided to increase KIE's author-
ized and paid-in capital from the present Sh 40,000 to Sh 50 million in order
to give KIE an adequate equity base which will enable it to borrow appropriate
amounts to finance the projected five-year operations program. It is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit that the paid-in capital
shall have been actually raised to this level. The paid-in capital will be
contributed by the Government out of existing grants from the Government as
well as from the bilateral donors. Furthermore, in order to cover KIE's
projected revenue deficits the Government will provide Sh 20-30 million during



- 22 -
FY78-FY81 by way of grants. KIE has agreed to a debt equity ratio of 3:1
which should ensure an adequate financial structure. The overall improvement
in KIE's financial position, resulting from a better capitalization and
appropriate financial policies, is reflected in the projections provided in
Annexes 10-12.
D. Investment and Technical Assistance
4.16      As part of the project, IDA would provide financing for:
(1) construction of factories and workshop clusters,
(2) industrial credit, and
(3) technical assistance.
The project would include construction by KIE of (1) 12 factory buildings for
modern small scale industries for the second phase of the Eldoret Industrial
Estate; (2) 150 workshops for small industries dispersed among 10 industrial
promotion areas (workshop clusters) in rural areas; and (3) 40 workshops in
industrial promotion areas in Nairobi. The project would also include KIE's
financing equipment and permanent working capital for the small scale in-
dustries located in the factories and workshops contructed under the project.
In addition, KIE would provide loans for equipment, permanent working capital,
and building construction for approximately 30 modern small industries off the
estates. Finally, the project would include training for KIE's Kenyan staff
and the employment of qualified and experienced expatriates: staff to assist
the Government in small-scale industry policies (para. 2.32) and six advisers
to assist KIE in its reorganization and in the execution of this project.
This staff would assist in the following areas: (i) financial management
(para. 3.04), (ii) promotion, preparation and appraisal of projects (para.
3.07), (iii) promotion, training and development of entrepreneurs (para.
4.03), (iv) technical matters relating to Eldoret Estate and factories off the
Estate, and (v) establishment and operation of rural workshops in the Eldoret
Region (para. 4.23). Provision has been made in the IDA Credit for financing
the estimated foreign exchange proportion of 80% of approximately 12 manyears
of technical assistance (at about $67,000 per manyear in current prices), plus
up to $200,000 for training programs. Howeveyr, UNDP and bilateral donors have
expressed interest in providing financing for this purpose. If alternative
financing is available, the technical assistance funds would be reallocated to
other components.
Rural and Urban Workshop Program
4.17      The program would provide funds for 10 industrial promotion areas
(IPAs) in towns in rural areas and two IPAs in Nairobi. These IPAs would be
the basic units in the expanded rural industrial development program (RIDP).
Services in the IPAs would include sheds for rent, utilities, certain common
production facilities, credit, material bulk purchase arrangements, and
assistance in new product development, marketing, financial management, and
production. Loans to industries on IPAs are expected to average Sh 100,000.



- 23 -
Eldoret Industrial Estate
4.18      The newest of the industrial estates is under construction at
Eldoret. This estate is the fifth established by KIE and has been planned
over the past three years with the assistance of two economists provided by
DANIDA. DANIDA was to have financed this estate, but withdrew early in 1976
(Annex 15).
4.19      Eldoret is a fast growing town with a population of over 20,000,
and the center of a rich agricultural district with important forestry and
livestock resources. The town is connected to the rest of the country by
both rail and road. A number of small industries already operate there and
there are also two large industrial enterprises -- a textile mill in its
final stage of construction and a starch and glucose factory in operation.
An extensive survey of the district shows that considerable scope exists
for the development of a number of small industries either based on the
resources of the region or catering for the agricultural sector. By early
1976, 15 satisfactory projects had been prepared for industries to be estab-
lished on this estate.
4.20      Because of the withdrawal of DANIDA and the considerable interest
of local entrepreneurs, the Government has provided Sh 6 million for initia-
tion of the 12 factories for Phase I of the estate. The infrastructure
for the estate and the first 12 factory buildings will be completed at the end
of 1977. By December 1976, eight industrial projects had been approved, and
entrepreneurs had been selected for half of these projects. Unit construction
costs compare favorably with the estates built several years ago. Construc-
tion was started only after projects for most of the sheds had been approved.
Moreover, Phase II of 12 factories (the part of Eldoret to be assisted by IDA)
will be started only when further projects have been identified and approved.
Industries Off the Estates
4.21      Government policy is changing with regard to using industrial
estates as the prime instrument for promoting small-scale industries. Indus-
trial estates require large investment in infrastructure and construction
and are suitable for only a limited number of locations. After the completion
of the Eldoret, Kakamega and Nyeri industrial estates, all the major cities
would have estates. KIE does not plan to build any other new estate.
4.22      As part of KIE's enhanced responsibility it would therefore promote
and implement small-scale industry projects throughout the country off indus-
trial estates. Already KIE has been involved with a number of such projects,
in particular a sugar refinery at Kakamega, a tannery at Embu, and a pencil
factory being established at Thompson Falls. The sugar refinery and the
tannery are examples of industries that need to be located close to the
source of raw materials or which have effluent problems making them unsuitable
for industrial estates.



- 24 -
External Technical Assistance
4.23      The restructuring of KIE will expand considerably its range of
responsibilities. Despite gaining valuable experience over 10 years of
operation, KIE staff needs additional assistance to carry through the ex-
panded program for small-scale industry development on and off the estates.
In particular, assistance is proposed for project preparation, financial
management, development of entrepreneurship and coordination of extension
services (paras. 3.04, 3.07, and 4.03). In addition, because of the with-
drawal of the Danish technical assistance support for Eldoret, two advisers
are needed to insure the effective continuation of the Eldoret estate and the
Rural Industrial-Development Program in the district. Finally, for the
project to be successful, it is important that the policy formulation capa-
bility at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry for small-scale industries be
strengthened (para 2.32) and an advisor is proposed for the Ministry in this
area. All the staff to be recruited to carry out these functions will have to
be acceptable to IDA as to their qualifications and experience.
E. Project Cost and Financing
4.24      The estimated total project cost is $15.6 million equivalent,
of which $1.1 million is for construction, $13.5 million for industrial
credit, and $1.0 million for technical assistance. The project's foreign
exchange component would be $10.0 million (65% of total project cost) and
financed by IDA. The local component of $5.6 million would be divided almost
equally between KIE and sub-borrowers with each contributing 18% of total
project cost.
4.25      The average KIE loan to modern small industry is estimated to
be $200,000 and the average loan to workshops, $12,000. The sub-borrowers
contribution would average 20% both for modern small industry loans and
workshop loans. The modern small industry projects would have a foreign
exchange component of 69% whereas the workshop projects would have 50%. On
average IDA would finance 80% of KIE's loans which would approximately cover
the estimated foreign exchange costs of the projects. The following table
gives a breakdown of the major cost categories of the project and their
financing.



- 25 -
Total Project Cost and Financing
Foreign
Foreign                 Local                                  Exchange
IDA               KIE        Subborrowers         Total       Component
Sh mil. $ mil.  Sh mil. $ mil.  Sh mil. $ mil.  Sh mil. $ mil.
Construction /a
Eldoret
Factories    1.08   0.13       1.66   0.20       -      -         2.74   0.33        40
Workshops       2.66   0.32      3.98   0.48       -       -        6.64   0.80        40
Total        3.74   0.45      5.64   0.68       -      -         9.38   1.13        40
Industrial
Credit
Modern Small
Industries  60.76   7.32       9.71   1.17    17.60   2.12       88.07  10.61        69
Workshops      11.87   1.43      7.14   0.86      4.73   0.57      23.74   2.86        50
Total       72.63   8.75    16.85   2.03    22.33   2.69    111.81  13.47           65
Technical
Assistance
IDA             6.64   0.80       -      -         -       -        6.64   0.80        80
Government       -      -        1.66   0.20       -       -         1.66   0.20
6.64   0.80      1.66   0.20       -      -         8.30   1.00        80
Total      83.01  10.00    24.15   2.91    22.33   2.69    129.49  15.60            65
/a   Includes 5% physical contingency, price contingencies of 9% 1978-79 and
8% thereafter, and tax of 6%.
F. IDA Credit
4.26      The proposed credit would be made to the Government of Kenya and
the funds for the construction and industrial credit components ($9.2 million)
would be on-lent to KIE at 6%. This on-lending rate would result in an
average cost of resources (including equity) of 3.0% in 1982. The return
on portfolio and rental properties in the same year would be 11.0%.  The
resulting 8 point spread would allow KIE to finance its technical assistance
program and phase out the Government administration grant. Because of the
difficulty of adjusting the composite of the amortization schedules of the
subloans in view of the large number of projects expected to be financed from
the credit and the inclusion of a construction component, the loan to KIE
would have a fixed amortization schedule with maturity of 15 years including
three years grace. This repayment period would allow KIE to roll-over about



- 26 -
one time the IDA funds used for credit and thus provide needed local resources.
Because of the complexity of foreign exchange risks for small borrowers, the
Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
4.27      Sub-loans would be made on the basis of KIE's appraisals of indivi-
dual projects. IDA would approve all sub-loans from the IDA credit amounting
to more than $125,000. Regarding free-limit sub-loans below this limit under
the IDA Credit, it was agreed that KIE would not approve any sub-loans unless
it has been notified that its appraisal procedures and methods are acceptable
to IDA.
4.28      In developing subprojects for financing under the modern small
industry as workshop programs, KIE would look into the possibilities of
manufacturing local consumer-goods such as building materials, furniture,
clothing and footwear, agricultural equipment, transport equipment and
accessories. In addition, small to medium scale agro-processing industries
such as sugar refining, tanning and kraft paper production would be supported.
The manufacture and repair of agricultural and rural transport tools and
equipment is another area with potential for growth. In this regard, the
project will provide financing through KIE for the production of low or medium
technology agricultural and transport equipment from prototypes declared suit-
able by the Rural Technology Center (RTC) in Nakuru. This center is in charge
of developing and testing designs for "appropriate technology" equipment for
rural Kenya, and would be a valuable source of ideas for new products, which
could be made available to smallholder Kenyan farmers. Through other Bank/IDA
financed projects such as the Integrated Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 650-KE and Ln. 1303-KE), farmers may obtain agricultural credit for products
that will assist the farmer in augmenting his production. An administrative
link between KIE and the RTC and other institutions has been established.
4.29      Disbursement of IDA funds for construction, for sub-loans to work-
shop enterprises, enterprises at Eldoret and private factory enterprises, and
for technical assistance and training will be up to the percentages indicated
in Annex 18. In view of the large number of disbursements which will have to
be made, it was agreed that KIE will claim reimbursement from IDA, from time
to time, against appropriate documentation for agreed percentages of the
disbursements made by it. Equipment procured under the IDA Credit would be
too small for international competitive bidding and KIE would satisfy itself
that goods and services purchased are competitive in quality and price. It
has also been agreed that no disbursements for civil works will be made unless
suitably qualified and experienced technical staff has been posted to the
Industrial Promotion Areas and to the Eldoret Industrial Estate.
V. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      The main justification of the project is institution building.  KIE
would assume primary responsibility for development of small scale industry
in Kenya and would accordingly be reorganized and strengthened. KIE would
become capable of providing small scale industry with the assistance required



- 27 -
and of advising the Government on the needs of the sector. As a result,
capability for implementation of small scale industry development in all areas
of the country would be consolidated within one institution. Project identi-
fication, preparation, and appraisal would also be improved and financial
discipline would be increased. Moreover, technical assistance for rural and
urban workshops would be established on a sustainable basis.
5.02      In addition, IDA funds would provide about 10% of the investment in
the small industry sector 1979-82. KIE would establish appraisal procedures
to ensure adequate financial and economic benefits of subprojects. In addi-
tion, IDA would monitor closely the appraisal of subprojects. Most sub-
projects would be based on local raw materials and some would provide inex-
pensive items, such as farm implements and transport equipment, which would
benefit the rural and urban poor. In addition, a small number of industries
may produce exportable items. The direct employment effects of the project
would be significant with 2,600 jobs created. 1/ The fixed investment cost
per job in 1977 prices would be $3,700 ($6,100 for the modern small industry
component and $1,400 for the workshop component). These ratios are much lower
than the DFC average for Africa of $17,000.
5.03      The project would be the first national small scale industry project
by the Bank in a major country in Eastern Africa and the first Bank small
scale industry project in Africa to combine technical assistance and financing
in the same institution. Thus, the project will provide experience for pre-
paring future small scale industry projects in Africa.
5.04      The major risks of the project are that KIE would be unable to hire
the large number of qualified professionals required for its expansion (para
4.08) and that KIE would be unable to achieve financial autonomy (paras 3.25,
4.13). With regard to staffing, KIE is reviewing its salary structure to
enable it to attract qualified personnel and is developing training programs
including on-the-job training to meet requirements. On the financial side,
KIE has adopted a policy statement (Annex 1) including financial policies that
would provide KIE with reasonable prospects for achieving a sound financial
position by 1982. In addition, the large technical assistance component of
the project should assist in keeping loan defaults to low levels and in estab-
lishing sound financial practices within KIE. IDA should support the project
because of its long term institution building aspects as well as the signifi-
cant employment and economic effect which would result from the investment of
IDA funds in small scale industry.
1/   Seven jobs per workshop and 30 jobs per modern small firm.



- 28 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiation, assurances were obtained:
(i)  that the foreign exchange risk for the Credit would be
borne by the Government;
(ii)  that the funds for the construction and industrial
credit components ($9.2 million) would be onlent
from the Government to KIE at 6%;
(iii)  that staff to coordinate Small-Scale Industry Programs
and to strengthen KIE would be engaged by June 30,
1978;
(iv)  that the initial subprojects to be financed out of IDA
funds would be submitted to IDA for approval until such
time as the appraisal techniques were found accept-
able to the Association and that, thereafter, subloans
from the IDA Credit amounting to more than $125,000
would be submitted to IDA for prior approval;
(v)  that an administrative link betwee KIE and the Rural
Technology Center would be established.
6.02      The following conditions for disbursements were agreed upon:
(i)  construction on the industrial estate at Eldoret:  that
suitably qualified and experienced technical staff have
been appointed ; and
(ii)  construction of workshop clusters:  that suitably
qualified and experienced staff have been posted
to serve the industrial promotion area.
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a credit of $10.0 million to be
used as outlined above.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LIMITED
STATEMENT OF POLICY
The KIE is a financial and technical service institution wholly
owned by the Government of Kenya for the purpose of furthering the economic
development of Kenya by assisting in the promotion, establishment and expan-
sion of small scale industrial enterprises including mining, agro-industries,
engineering, manufacturing, processing, assembling, consumer and service
industries in accordance with the provisions and priorities of the successive
National Development Plans.
The KIE will promote the industrial development of Kenya through
one, or a combination of the following methods:
(a) Provision of medium and long-term finance to small
industries throughout the country;
(b) Provision of technical services including, but not
limited to, assistance in the preparation, imple-
mentation, and management of enterprises;
(c) Establishment and management of (1) industrial estates,
(2) rural industrial development centres, and (3) indus-
trial promotion areas and workshop clusters in both
urban and rural areas;
(d) Participate in equity from time to time if such parti-
cipation is necessary for the projects to come off the
ground.
I.         FINANCING
The KIE will finance or otherwise assist enterprises creating new
productive assets and will not normally engage in refinancing operations, unless
the original financing had prior consent of the Company.
The KIE financial operations shall be guided by sound banking prin-
ciples. The Company's investment decisions shall be based on appropriate ap-
praisal methods and will particularly take into account the total financial
requirements of the project and the adequacy of the resulting financial struc-
ture for the enterprises.
The Company shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects and those which are competently managed either
by the entrepreneurs themselves or by full-time qualified managers.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
The Company shall not invest in any enterprise in which the total
cost of fixed assets, including permanent working capital, estimated after
completion of the project is more than Shs. 5.0 million. For any enterprise
in which the total cost of fixed assets, including permanent working capital,
is (a) Shs. 3.0 million or less, the Company will not invest more than 85% of
the total costs of the project and Cb) more than Shs.3.0 million, the Company
will not invest more than 80% of the total costs of the project.  These
limits will be subject to review from time to time, according to changing
economic situations.
If an economically worthwhile project cannot take off without KIE's
participation or in case an on-going project cannot continue production for
the same reason, the Company may consider participation in equity subject to
a maximum of 25% of the shares.
The Company's total debts shall not at any time exceed three times
the amount of its unimpaired subscribed share capital plus surplus and
reserves.
The Company shall seek to diversify its financing both geographically
and by industrial sectors.
The Company's investment in any one enterprise will be in keeping
with the national objectives and strategies. The Company shall give special
consideration to enterprises utilizing local materials and technologies which
emphasize the creation of employment in relation to the capital invested.
To the extent possible, the Company will also give special consideration to
enterprises oriented towards exports.
The Company will, from time to time, review and fix rates of interest
bearing in mind the cost of borrowing, the necessity of making adequate provision
for doubtful investments and the prevailing economic factors. The Company shall
charge an interest rate of 10% per annum on projects whose total cost is
Shs. 1.0 million or less and 11% per annum on projects whose total cost exceeds
Shs. 1.0 million. The Company shall charge fees and commissions at rates to be
determined from time to time.
The Company shall take such security for its loans as it shall deter-
mine adequate and reasonable.
The Company shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
II.       TECHNICAL SERVICES
The Company shall provide recipients and potential recipients of
KIE loans with a range of services as needed to assist in the efficient
establishment and operation of their industries. These services shall
include, inter-alia:
(a)  identification of suitable items for manufacture, determina-
tion of viable scale of operations, and assistance in
planning the financing, equipment, and manpower needed;
(b)  technical advice in selection, installation and maintenance
of equipment;
Cc)  analysis of production problems impeding full utilization of
capacity or resulting in inadequate quality standards;
(d)  assistance in the development of new products and preparation
of tooling and design and fabrication of new equipment;
(e)  advice and training in management;
(f)  assistance in marketing; and
(g)  in collaboration with other institutions, investigate the
most appropriate processes and technologies and develop
equipment suitable for application in the country.
III.      ESTATE MANAGEMENT
The provision of facilities and factory premises will continue to
be an essential activity of the Company. In keeping with this role, the
Company will manage and operate industrial estates in main population centers
and will provide workshop facilities in industrial promotion areas.
Factory and workshop premises will be constructed at minimum cost
and only after a substantial fraction of the projects to occupy the premises
have been identified and approved. The factory and workshop premises on the
estate or in industrial promotion areas will either be rented or sold to the
entrepreneurs. If the premises are rented, then the entreprenuer shall pay
the standard rent for the premises, as determined from time to time, to reflect
the long-run marginal costs of facilities.
If the factory or workshop is located off the estate or off an
industrial promotion area, then the entrepreneur shall be responsible for
the construction of adequate facilities, and the construction cost shall be
included in the total project cost. Such construction must conform to the
approved standards.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
The Company shall establish and operate common technical service
facilities at the estates and industrial promotion areas if there is adequate
demand for such services. Charges shall be made for these services according
to a fixed schedule, and these services shall progressively become financially
self supporting.
General
The Board shall conduct the business of the Company in accordance
with the Company's Act, and other relevant laws and regulations in the country.
The Company shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations
and establish terms and conditions of service as will enable it to attract
such personnel.
This policy statement shall be subject to review from time to time
in accordance with government policies and strategies.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 2
KRNYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Organization Chart and Functional Relationships
KIE BOARD]
.Manaing Director/Deputy Managing Director
Personnel, Public Rltos   ea
P_  :e c     %                    _                                | Extension Services Man ar  A s                      Senior Financial Officer   rAdvian
(Pr. ect preparatiort                                              I      ,Follo -uo)
and Apraisa)t                                                                 . 
.   |   I  Senior  | Senior      Senenio       S en ir            Credito
*     I   Offiicer    otc  I    Ott ice       |ff.a               Controller  .| Controlle | Accotntan
a                                                    Technical         P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oilot-up]    Maricet4,ng T.C 
Senior                Senior                               Assistance                                                    I  
Engineerj             Economoist
I             ~~~~Manager 
RegIonal               I      Regional                 Regionl          Regional        Regional            l           l
L Engineer              Et| Reion                            Technical        Followa-up      Marketing    Tot           Accountant
Assstace      gfiecOfficer         Officer
OfficPAer
Project               to Idustrial |       IU 1 -aAr            TO
Of icr                Estate               1 Maaerhii-a
1 Technicia
P-4APID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 3
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Staffing Plan
Filled as of           Recruitments
Department               Position             September 1977       1978  1979  1980  1981
Managing Director             1
Deputy Managing Director      1
Administration           Manager                        I
Senior Officer                             1
Officer                        2           1    l
Legal                    Senior Officer                              1
Officer                                    1    1
Projects                 Manager                        1
Senior Engineer               1
Engineer                       1
Senior Economist              1
Economist                     2
Finance                  Manager                        1
Rent Controller               1
Credit Controller             1
Senior Accountant             1            1
Accountant                    1            1.   1
Extension Services (ES) Manager                                      1
Senor TAM'?Officer                         1
TA-  Officer                               1
Senior Follow-up Officer                   1
Follow-up Officer                          1
Senior TSC Officer                         1
TSC Officer                   1
Senior Marketing Officer                   1
Marketing Officer             1
Regions                  Manager                        7
Accountant                    2            2    3
Engineer                      4            1    1
Economist                     3            1    2
Technical Advisors           11            5
RIDC/IPA Manager              6            4    4      3     3
RIDC/IPA Technician                        5    5      5     5
51          31   18      8     8
Of which:                Expatriates                   11           5
Senior Professionals         35           12    6
Others                        5           14   12      8     8
1/ Technical Assistance
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 4
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Resource Position June 30, 1976
(Sh million)
Foreign                         Local
Sources
DANIDA                              5.57      Government/ICDC      35.83
NORAD                               2.20      Donated Capital       5.05
KfW                                32.29      Depreciation          3.47
SIDA                               25.65     Provisions             2.16
Net Loss             (6.55) a/
65.71                           39.96
Uses
Fixed Assets                       18.71                           25.69
Loans                               6.86                            3.11
Undisbursed Commitments            25.44                            5.34
51.01                           34.14
Available for Commitment           14.70                            5.82
a/ After annual administration grant from Government.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 5
page 1 of 2
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Analysis of Loans Approved as of June 30, 1976
(Amounts in Sh)
No.        %           Amount           x
A.  YEAR OF APPROVAL
1973                        5          6           133,100           2
1974                       24         28           527,553           6
1975                       33         39         2,453,660         28
1976                       23         27         5,482,556         64
Total                85        100         8x596 4869       100
B. SIZE
Under 10,000               15        18             58,463          1
10,000-25,000              22        26           431,720           5
25,000-50,000              32        38         1,187,407          14
50,000-100,000              5         6           332,367           4
100,000-500,000              8          9        1,208,912          14
500,000-1 million            1          1          788,000           9
1 - 2 million                1          1        1,300,000          15
Above 2 million              1          1         3,290,000         38
Total                85        100         8.526.869        100
C. MATURITY
2-3 years                  10        12           126,334           1
4-5 years                   7          8            62,129          1
6 years                    68        80         8,408,406          98
Total                85        100         8_596.869        100
D. INTEREST RATE - 8%
E. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Textiles                   10        12            620,094          7
Transport                   2          2            66,700          1
Wood Products              34         40        1,127,654          13
Metals                     13         15           343,199          4
Food                        5          6        4,204,927          49
Leather                     6          7        1,622,530          19
Chemicals                 -          -               -             -
Building Materials          3          4            79,410          1
Other                      12         14           532,355          6
Total                85        100         8*596 89100



ANNEX 5
page 2 of 2
No.       %          Amount            %
F. LOCATION
Kisumu                    15         18      2,188,412            25
Kakamega                  10         12      3,594,289           42
Machakos                  18         21        310,546             4
Nyeri                     29         34        885,492           10
Embu                      13         15      1,618,130           19
Total                85       100       8JL596 869         100
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 6
page 1 of 2
ICDC
Analysis of Machinery Loans Approved as of June 30, 1976
(Amounts in Sh)
No.       %       Amount-/             %
A. SIZE
Under 10,000                         -          -
10,000-25,000             1          1        14,549
25,000-50,000             1          1        25,075
50,000-100,000            4          6       260,362             1
100,000-500,000           38         50     9,341,510            15
500,000-1 million         15         20    10,348,376            17
1 - 2 million              7          9     9,005,811            15
Above 2 million           10         13    31,759,068             52
Total                 76       100    60.754.51_            100
B. LOCATION
Nairobi I                 19         25     9,712,275             16
Nairobi II                21         28    16,616,207             27
Nairobi III               12         16    10,833,290            18
Nakuru                    24         31    23,592,980             39
Total                 76       100    60.754L751            100
C. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Textiles                  11         14    17,955,126             30
Transport                  2          3     1,372,475              2
Wood Products              8         11     4,795,071              8
Metals                    33         43    18,580,175             30
Food                       2          3     1,534,784              3
Leather                    2          3       511,331              1
Chemicals                  5          6     5,088,984             8
Building Materials         2          3     1,402,128              2
Other                     11         14     9,514,677            16
Total                 76       100    60.754Aj7a= 100
a/ DM approvals converted at 3.55 Sh/DM.



ANNEX 6
page 2 of 2
ICDC
Machinery Portfolio
ICDC has used KfW funds to provide loans for equipment for the
factories on the Nairobi and Nakuru estates. As of June 30, 1976 KfW
had committed Sh 64 million for these loans. ICDC has supplemented the
KfW funds with approximately Sh 10 million in local funds.
Approvals
As of June 30, 1976 ICDC had approved 76 machinery loans
totalling Sh 60.8 million. Approximately two-thirds by number and
amount of these loans were for Nairobi, with the remaining one-third for
Nakuru. Fifty percent of the loans are in the range of 100,000-500,000 Sh.
Ten loans totalling Sh 31.8 million are over Sh 2.0 million in amount.
The two largest categories of economic activity are metals and textiles
(both 30% by amount).
Portfolio and Arrears
As of June 30, 1976, ICDC outstanding machinery loans totalled
Sh 29.8 million compared to Sh 5.8 million in 1973. Arrears of more than
6 months totalled Sh 4.9 million or 16% of the outstanding portfolio, and
the principal outstanding for loans with arrears of over six months amounted
to 78% of the outstanding portfolio.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 7
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Financial Statements for 1973-76
(Sh million)
Year Ending June 30                   1973      1974      1975       1976
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Current Assets              3.8        4.3       8.5       31.5
Loan Portfolio              -          0.3       1.4        8.1
Fixed Assets               14.3       20.4      31.9      41.0
Total Assets          18.1       25.0      41.8      80.6
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities         0.7        1.2       4.1        4.6
Government Loans a/         -          2.2       2.2       28.1
ICDC Loans a               17.5       19.9      36.2       41.9
Government RIDP Grants      -          2.0       2.0        7.4
Capital Reserve             1.3        2.2       2.3        5.1
Accumulated Loss b/         (1.5)     (2.4)     (5.0)      (6.5)
Total Liabilities
and Equity            18.1       25.0      41.8      80.6
INCOME STATEMENTS
Income
Rents Receivable            0.4        0.5       0.7        1.1
Interest Receivable         -          -         0.1        0.2
Service Charges             -          0.1       -          0.3
Government Administra-
tion Grant                  1.8        2.6       3.5        6.0
Total Income           2.2        3.2       4.3        7.6
Expenses
Administrative Expenses      2.1       3.0       4.6        6.4
Financial Expenses          0.3        0.4       0.5        0.7
Depreciation                0.4        0.5       0.9        1.1
Provisions /               0.1        0.2       1.0        0.8
Total Expenses         2.9        4.1       6.9        9.1
Net Loss               0.7        0.9       2.6        1.5
a/ In 1977, these funds were converted into grants according to the terms
of thle eriginal Aonors, except for Ysh 23.0 outstanding on KfW loans.
b/ Net of annual administration grants from Government.
c/ Against durrent liabilities.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 8
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Operational Plan
Industrial Estates and Industrial Promotion Areas
June 30                                            1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1981         1982
NAIROBI ESTATE
Factories Constructed                              54           54           54           54            54           54           54
Factory Area (ft2)                           155,000      155,000       155,000      155,000      155,000      155,000       155,000
Factories Occupied                                 49           54           54           54           54            54           54
NAKURU ESTATE
Factories Constructed                              25           25           25           25            25           25           25
Factory Area (ft2)                            83,000        83,000       83,000       83,000       83,000       83,000        83,000
Factories Occupied                                 12           25           25           25            25           25           25
KISUMU ESTATE
Factories Constr"cted                              22           22           22           22            22,          22           22
Factory Area (ft2)                             58,000       58,000       58,000       58,000       58,000       58,000        58,000
Factories Occupied                                  6           13           14           22            22           22           22
MOMBASA ESTATE
Factories Constrvcted                            -              22           22           22            22           22           22
Factory Area (ft2)                               -          83,000       83,000       83,000       83,000       83,000        83,000
Factories Occupied                               -               6           12           18            22           22           22
ELDORET ESTATE
Factories Constructed                            -              12           18           24            24           24           24
Factory Area (ft2)                               -          42,000       63,000       84,000       84,000       84,000        84,000
Factory Occupied                                 -               1           12           18            24           24           24
KAXAMEGA ESTATE
Factories Constructed                            -            -            -                6           12           18           24
Factory Area (ft2)                               -            -            -          21,000       42,000       63,000        84,000
Factories Occupied                               -            -            -               3             6           12           18
NYERI ESTATE
Factories Constructed                            -            -            -            -            -                6           12
Factory Area (ft2)                               -            -            -            -            -           21,000       42,000
Factories Occupied                               -            -            -            -            -                3            6
RURAL INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AREAS
Factories Constructed                               9           48           75          125          175           225          275
Factory Area (ft2)                              6,000       27,000       42,000       67,000       94,000      121,000       148,000
Factories Occupied                              6,0         2700             68          109          150           191          232
URBAN INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AREAS
Factories ConstrtJcted                           -            -            -              13            26           40           40
Factory Area (ft )                               -            -            -           7,000       14,000        22,000       22,000
Factories Occupied                               -            -            -              10            20           36           40
TOTAL
Factories Constructed                             110          183          216          291           360          436          498
Factory Ares (ft )                            302,000      448,000      484,000      558,000      613,000      690,000       759,000
Factories Occupied                                 76          134          185          256           323          389          443
MODERN SMALL INDUSTRIES OFF ESTATES
Factories Occupied                                  4            4            4             9           19           29           39
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Projection Assumptions
1. Disbursements (Sh million)
1977    1978    1979    1980  1981        1982
Loans                      4.63    27.03   45.19   42.32   41.75   35.54
Construction               4.82      6.78    6.67    4.26    4.56    3.93
Estates are fully occupied in the following years: Mombasa - 1980, Kisumu -
1979, Eldoret - 1980. Fifteen IPAs are fully occupied in 1981 and thirty modern
small industries off the estates are occupied in 1981.
2.  Share Capital
In 1977, Sh 50.0 million in former grants are converted to share capital.
3.  Transfer of ICDC Small Loan Portfolio
A net portfolio amounting to Ksh 40 million is assumed to be transferred to
KIE in FY1978 along with the corresponding resources consisting of KfW borrowings
of Ksh 35.2 million and Ksh 4.8 million local currency grants.
4. KIE Loans Terms
KIE loans prior to the end of 1977 bear interest of 8% and have maturities
of six years with one year grace. All KIE loans in 1978 and afterwards have
interest of 11% and maturities of 10 years including two years grace.
5. Rental Income
The following standard rental rates are assumed (in Shift. /mo2).  Rent for
firms in operation less than three years assumed to be 0.50 Sh/ft. /mo. less than
the standard rate.
1977  -  0.45
1978  -  1.00
1979  -  1.25
1980  -  1.25
1981  -  1.50
1982  -  1.75
6.  Interest on short-term investments - 5%.
7.  Administrative Expenses - increase 20% per year in real terms during KIE's
reorganization until 1979 and 7% per year thereafter, with an additional 5% per
year allowed for salary increases.
8. Interest Expense:
IDA       - 6%
KfW Loans - 3%
Other     - 6%



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
9. Provisions
Loans - 8% of annual disbursements
Interest due - 8% of annual income
Rent due - 8% of annual income
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 10
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Projected Balance Sheet 1976-82
(Sh million)
Year Ending June 30             1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
(act)
ASSETS
Cash and Short-term Invest-
ments                       29.43   30.25   16.94   14.64   20.11   25.34   25.05
Other Current Assets (net)   2.09    3.50    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00
Total Current Assets        31.52   33.75   20.94   18.64   24.11   29.34   29.05
Loan Portfolio                 8.10   11.46   69.51  105.25  136.99  165.16  185.14
Provisions                      -      (O0.94)  (6.30)  (9.92) (13.31) (16.65) (19.49)
Net Loan Portfolio             8.10   10.52   63.21   95.33  123.68  148.51  165.65
Fixed Assets (net)            40.95   44.44   49.71   54.69   57.14   59.77   61.66
TOTAL ASSETS                 80.57   88.71  133.86  168.66  204.93  237.62  256.36
LIABILITIES & NETWORTH
Current Liabilities            4.64    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00
Long-term Borrowing
IDA   6%                      -       -        -      26.42   52.11   69.48   66.79
KfW   3%                    23.00   23.78   64.13   72.51   83.09   98.41  109.25
Other 6%                      -        -       -        -       -        -      10.00
Total Long-term                                                -
Borrowing                 23.00   23.78   64.13   98.93  135.20  167.89  186.04
ShareCapital                    -      50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00
Grants                        54.42   11.93   16.73   16.73   16.73   16.73   16.73
Reserves                      (1.49)    -        -        -        -       -       0.59
Total Networth              52.93   61.93   66.73   66.73   66.73   66.73   67.32
TOTAL LIABILITIES &
NETWORTH                  80.57   88.71  133.86  168.66  204.93  237.62  256.36
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 11
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Projected Income Statement (1976-82)
(Sh million)
Year Ending June 30             1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
(Act)
REVENUE
Interest on Short-term
Investments    a/            -      1.49    1.18    0.79    0.87    1.14    1.25
Interest on Loans-            0.22    0.74    4.90    7.61   10.99   13.99   16.37
Rents-a/                      1.06    1.51    3.35    5.26    6.50    9.13   12.12
Administrative Grant          6.00    6.98    8.32    6.47    4.92    2.36     -
Other                         0.30    0.40    0.50    0.60    0.70    0.80    0.90
TOTAL REVENUE               7.58   11.12   18.25   20.73   23.98   27.42   30.64
EXPENSES
Administrative                6.44    8.05   10.06    12.58  14.09   15.78   17.67
Interest                      0.67    0.80    1.32    2.84    4.69    6.37    7.50
Depreciation                  1.12    1.33    1.51    1.69    1.81    1.93    2.04
Provisions on Portfolio       0.84b/  0.94    5.36    3.62    3.39    3.34    2.84
TOTAL EXPENSES              9.07   11.12   18.25   20.73   23.98   27.42   30.05
Net Income                   (1.49)    -       -       -       -       -      0.59
a/ Net of Provisions.
b/ Against current liabilities.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 12
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Projected Cash Flow (1977-82)
(Sh million)
Year Ending June 30             1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
SOURCES
Net Profit                     -        -       -        -        -       0.59
Depreciation                   1.33    1.51    1.69    1.81    1.93    2.04
Provisions                     0.94    5.36    3.62    3.39    3.34    2.84
Loan Collections               1.27    8.98    9.45   10.58   13.58   15.56
3.54   15.85   14.76   15.78   18.85   21.03
Long-term Borrowings
IDA                          -       -       26.42   25.69   20.55    3.67
KfW                          0.78    5.61    9.28   11.48   16.22   11.74
Other                                                                  10.00
0.78    5.61   35.70   37.17   36.77   25.41
Grants                          9.00         -       -        -            -
TOTAL SOURCES               13.32   21.46   50.46   52.95   55.62   46.44
USES
Loan Disbursements             4.63   27.03   45.19   42.32   41.75   35.54
Borrowing Repayments
IDA                          -       -        -        -        3.18    6.36
KfW                          -        0.46    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90
Increase in Net Current
Assets                       3.05    0.50    -         -        -        -
Increase in Fixed Assets       4.82    6.78    6.67    4.26    4.56    3.93
TOTAL USES                  12.50   34.77   52.76   47.48   50.39   46.73
Increase in Cash                 0.82  (13.31)  (2.3)   (5.47)   5.23   (0.29)
EAPID
October 31, 1977



AIREX 13
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1973-1982)
Actual                                    Pro,ected
Year Ending June 30                       1973      1974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981     1982
A.  Income Statement Items as %
of Average Total Assets
Interest from Loans                    -         -       0.3      0.3        0.9       4.4      5.0       5.9      6.3       6.6
Rents                                 2.2      2.3       2.1      1.8        1.7       3.0      3.5       3.5       4.1      4.9
Government Grants                     9.9     12.1      10.5      9.8        8.2       7.5      4.3       2.6      1.1        -
Other                                  -       0.5        -       0.5        2.3       1.5      0.9       0.8       0.9      0.7
Gross Income                         12.1     14.9      12.9     12.4       13.1      16.4     13.7      12.8     12.4      12,2
Less: Administrativer  Expenses      11.6     13.9      13.8     10.5        9.5       9.0      8.3       7.5       7.1      7.1
Interest                       1.7'    1.9        1.5       1.1        0.9      1.2       1.9       2.5      2.9       3.o
Provisions                     o.6       0.9       2.7      1.3        1.1      4.8       2.4       1.8      1.5       1.1
Depreciation                   2.2       2.3       3.0      1.8        1.6      1.4       1.1       1.0      0.9       0.8
Net Income                               (3.9)    (4.1)    (8.1)    (2.3)           -        -         -        -         -       0.2
B.  Selected Income Items
Cost of Debt as % of
Average Long Term Debt                1.7      2.0       1.7      1.3         3,0      3.0       3.5      4.0       4.2      4.2
Income from Loans as % of
Average Net Loan Portfolio              -        -       2.1      4.2        7.9       8.9      9.6      10.1      10.3     10.4
Net Rent~/ as % of Average
Net Fixed Assets                        -         -        -         -       0.4       3.9      6.8       8.3      12.3     16.6
Spread on Loans                      (1.7)    (2.0)      0.4      2.9        4.9       5.9      6.1       6.1       6.1      6.2
Spread on Filed Assets               (1.7)    (2.0)    (1.7)    (1.3)       (2.6)      0.9       3.3      4.3       8.1     12.2
C. Structural Ratios
Long Term Debt/Networth               neg.    12.3       neg.    11.8        0.4       1.0       1.5      2.0        2.5      2.7
Provisions as % of Loan Portfolio    -          -         -        -         8.2       9.1        9.4     9.7       10.1      10.5
D.   Debt Coverage
Debt Service Coverage (DSC)           n.a.    n,a.       n.a.    n,a.        n.a.      5.0       3.0      2.8        2.2      1.9
a_ Rent minua depreciation
EAPID
October 31. 1977



ANNEX 14
Kenya
Small Scale Industry Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Years                                                  Cumulative
1979
First Quarter                     600
Second Quarter                    800
Third Quarter                   1,000
Fourth Quarter                  1,100
3,500
1980
First Quarter                   1,100
Second Quarter                    900
Third Quarter                     800
Fourth Quarter                    700
7,000
1981
First Quarter                     700
Second Quarter                    700
Third Quarter                     600
Fourth Quarter                    600
9,600
1982
First Quarter                     300
Second Quarter                    100
10,000
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 15
page 1 of 3
Eldoret Industrial Estate
1.        The National Development Plan for 1974-78 proposed that several
industrial estates would be constructed throughout the country in
addition to those already in existence at Nairobi, Nakuru, and under
construction at Mombasa and Kisumu. Of the industrial estates proposed in
this plan, the one given the highest priority was that at Eldoret.
2.        An agreement was signed in September 1974, between the Government
of Denmark and the Government of Kenya whereby a Danish contribution of
19.24 million Danish Kroner (US$ 3.29 million) would be granted for the
Eldoret project. Of this sum 4.27 million Danish Kroner were for construc-
tion of buildings and workshops on the estate, and 6.80 million Danish
Kroner (US$ 1.16 million) was for revolving credit fund for equipment for
industries setting up on the estate. The Government of Kenya was to pay for
the infrastructure. Even before the signing of the agreement,two Danish
economists had been studying the feasibility for the estate project. The
agreement was signed only after the economists had showed that there were
a number of viable projects for new industries on the estate. The project
was to consist not only of the industrial estate at Eldoret, but to include
four Rural Industrial Development Centers at Kitale, Kericho, Kapsabet, and
Kabarnet.
3.        The study carried out by the Danish advisers covered not only the
town of Eldoret, with a population of close to 20,000, but also the
district around the town. This district has an area of 3,784 sq. kilometers
and a population of 191,000 according to the census of 1969. Seventy
percent of the large farms in Kenya (farms with an area of over 1,000 acres)
are located in the Rift Valley Province of which Eldoret is one of the
principal marketing centers. Fifty four of the 360 large farms in the
Rift Valley Province are actually located in the district around Eldoret Town.
As an indication of the extent of farm mechanization in the Eldoret District,
it may be cited that 22% of the wheel tractors and 46% of all the combined
harvesters in Kenya are in use in the Eldoret District.
4.        Apart from the extensive livestock produce, including meat, dairy
products, hides and skins which are produced and processed in this area,
the province is also well known for its forests, which cover 560 sq.km. or 15%
of a total area of 3,784 sq. kilometers. The forest resources
account for 10 mechanized saw mills in and around Eldoret, and a number of
small furniture factories.
5.        The Danish survey of the district shows that Eldoret is well endowed
with power, water, and good means of communication including road and rail
links to the rest of the country. The rates of utility tariffs are comparable
to those in Nairobi. A number of small industries already operate in the town



ANNEX 15
page 2 of 3
including plants manufacturing baby foods, grain mill products, confectionery,
animal feeds, knitwear and hosiery, shoes, furniture, simple agricultural
machinery and forest products. Two of these industries -- baby foods and
knitwear -- are large enough to supply a national market. Two new large
industrial enterprises have recently been established in Eldoret -- a textile
mill now in its final stage of construction and a glucose and starch factory
already in operation. Together they will employ over 1,000 workers.
6.        The Danish survey also indicated a scope for the development
of a 'number of small and medium industries based on the resources of the
region, or in providing services for the agricultural sector. Among the
projects approved or in the pipeline for the first phase of the Eldoret
Industrial Estate are a number of such industries. These include a factory
for processing agricultural straw into kraft paper, an animal feed plant, a
mechanical workshop for repairing agricultural equipment, a factory for
manufacture of transport equipment and trailers, and further facilities for
providing spares and servicing of agricultural machinery.
7.        In late 1975 and early 1976 differences of opinion developed between the
Kenyan and the Danish governments on the procedures to be followed in
implementing the terms of the agreement. These differences led to the withdrawal
of the Danish grant for the construction of the Eldoret Estate early in 1976,'
even though it was the clearly stated opinion of the Danish technical advisers
and the representatives of DANIDA (Danish International Development Agency)
in Kenya that the Eldoret Estate was a viable project and worthy of support.
As there were a number of entrepreneurs who had already been identified as
ready to set up industries on the estate and some who had even made down
payments, the Kenya Government decided to go ahead with the Eldoret Estate
Project on its own.  In May 1976 it allocated   Sh. 6 million for this
purpose, and construction was started soon afterwards. It is anticipated
that by the sulmmer of 1977 or soon afterwards, the first 12 factories will be
completed as well as the infrastructure for the estate.
8.        This first stage of the Eldoret industrial estate under construction
consists of 12 sheds made up as follows:
(1) four small sheds of about 1,500 sq. ft. each;
(2) four medium-sized sheds of 3,000 sq.. ft. each;
(3) four larger sheds of 4,000 sq. ft. each.
9.        The estimated costs of construction are as follows:
(1) small sheds: Sh. 900 per sq. meter;
(2)  medium-sized sheds:  Sh. 668 per sq. meter;
(3)  large sheds:         Sh. 590 per sq. meter.



ANNEX 15
page 3 of 3
These unit construction costs are not much higher than estates built a
few years ago even though construction costs have increased considerably.
More recent estimates for equipment costs for the 24 units of the Estate
(12 first phase, 12 second phase) are around Sh. 20 million, compared to
Sh. 9 million for the first eight projects. The investment costs for
the second phase will be smaller than for Phase I. The high figure for
investment for the first eight projects at Eldoret is due to the kraft
paper plant which itself requires an investment of Sh. 3.2 million.
Only one other project within the first eight requires an investment of
more than Sh. 1 million.
10.       The Eldoret Estate is the first estate of KIE to be constructed
in two phases, thus making it possible to identify and approve projects
and entrepreneurs before the completion of the factories. The second phase
will only be constructed when projects are already approved for the majority
of the sheds to be constructed.
11.       The KIE staff at Eldoret include a regional manager and an
economist; there is a vacancy for a Kenyan engineer. An expatriate technical
adviser and a regional coordinator for the RIDC's and IPA's are needed.
12.       The plans for Eldoret Estate include the establishment of a technical
service center, and it is estimated that Sh. 1.2 million of equipment is
needed for this center. Construction of the building for the center is not
included in the first phase construction plans for lack of finance. So far
no study has been made to determine whether the construction and equipping
of a technical service center are justified on the basis of the needs and
demand of the industries planned for the estate.
13.       The industrial estate at Eldoret is probably the last estate of
its type to be constructed by KIE for several years. There are enough viable
projects and entrepreneurs to occupy factories on the estate in a
comparatively short period. These new industries could create employment
for 600-700 workers in Eldoret town and provide an important stimulus to the
future industrialization of the area.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 16
page 1 of 6
PRODUCT POSSIBLITIES FOR WORKSHOPS AND SMALL INDUSTRIES
1.        There is a need to introduce new products to rural-and urban
craftsmen since in several areas this sector suffers from intense compe-
tition on a limited number of product lines. Carpenters tend to concen-
trate on a few limited items such as tables and chairs, while metal workers
concentrate upon such products as containers and charcoal braziers.  Designs
are copied from neighboring craftsmen and the skills and experience of
artisans tend to be limited to a narrow range of products. Since local
and total demand for these products are limited, profit margins are extremely
low, savings and icentives for expansion almost non-existent.
2.        Increasing the production efficiency or capacity of one carpenter
or metal worker making these common items would have the effect of displac-
ing other small-scale producers. It becomes important therefore for KIE to
offer assistance in new product development and introduction; some of these
products would involve actual innovation and adaptation to develop new items
suited to local consumer or agricultural needs, while other products might
involve goods previously imported or involve further processing of products
of the large-scale industrial sector.
3.        Possibilities for new products fall within the following categories:
(1) processing of local materials;
(2) industries and services to meet local producer and consumer
demand;
(3) ancillary or secondary industries linked to large-scale
industries.
Local Consumer Goods
4.        Studies of consumption patterns in Eastern Africa highlight the
low purchasing power in rural areas, resulting in low quantity and quality
of goods purchased. In view of this low purchasing power there is a need
to increase the availability and reduce the price of basic consumer goods.
An inventory of common consumer goods indicates that the following craft-
based product lines have high demand:
(1)  building materials such as cement blocks, tiles, pipes,
bricks, lime, ceramics, hardware;
(2) clothing and footwear;
(3) manufacture and repair of agricultural implements, transport
equipment and accessories.
5.        Several of these categories are widely produced (e.g. furniture,
metal consumer goods, steel windows) by artisan and small-scale enterprises.
In these lines, new markets could be sought and product diversification in-
troduced using existing craft skills.



ANNEX 16
page 2 of 6
Agro-Processing Industries
6.          Recently the Government of Kenya has placed emphasis on
encouraging industries based upon local resources; sugar refining, tanning,
and kraft paper products (from wheat chaff) are examples of small to
medium-scale agro-processing industries which KIE has recently supported
following this trend.
7.          One difficulty which KIE has encountered in developing agro-
industries is that KIEs staff tend to be experienced in metal-mechanic
industries, which in turn affects the industries identified and the project
preparation capability. It is recognized that opportunities for agro-
processing and other local resource-based industries may have been missed
due to the lack of specialized assistance in this area. There is, therefore,
a strong case for including an agro-industry specialist in the specialized
projects staff at headquarters. This specialist would identify and assist
in preparing projects for small agro-industries, some of which might be
implemented in several regions as part of the rural and urban workshops
program.
8.          A further difficulty is that some agro-processing industries can-
not be justified economically on a small scale; and, in fact, Kenya already
has a number of plants engaged in such processes on a larger scale. Such
plants operate in the processing of tea, coffee, meat and dairy products as
well as in the canning and dehydration of certain local fruits and vegetables.
Even in the case of projects for milling animal feed and grain, processing oil
seeds, tanning of leather, ginning and spinning of cotton and sawmills, and ply-
wood and veneer manufacturing, the investments required may be in the order
of at least medium-sized plants.
9.          The development of further small-scale industries in this field of
processing of agricultural products therefore needs careful study and project
appraisal. However, even where the primary processing of the agricultural
materials may require larger-scale operations there will be scope for small-
scale industrial development as secondary processing as in the case of manu-
facture of jam, sauces, biscuits, confectionery, leather products, cheeses,
canning of certain vegetables, fruit and fish items, and a variety of other
food products. There is also scope for small-scale industries acting as
suppliers of items and services needed by large-scale industries particularly
containers, packaging materials, transport equipment, tools, protective
clothing, office or workshop furniture and accessories, etc.
10.         Furthermore, many resource-based industries (e.g.  sawmills, sugar
refinery, tannery) need to be located near the sources of raw materials
because of the large amount of materials that need to be transported in
relation to the final products and the extensive space required for storage
and handling. These features, often combined with waste disposal problems,
make them unsuitable for location on industrial estates.



ANNEX 16
page 3 of 6
Manufacture and repair of agricultural tools and equipment
11.       Over 150 metal working units are working regularly with the RIDP.
Most make charcoal braziers, containers, random spare parts, and metal
windows.  These producers could be organized to make a variety of inter-
mediate equipment for cultivation, processing, storage and transport for
the agricultural sector.
12.       There is a wide range of improved hand- and animal-drawn agri-
cultural tools and processing equipment currently available in Kenya and
other countries. Some of this equipment requires further testing for its
suitability for use in various regions of Kenya. In other cases, training
of extension agents, farmers and small-scale manufacturers is required to
increase demand through dissemination of information on use and production
capabilities.
13.       Purchasing power in the rural areas is a major constraint in sales
of agricultural implements as well as other goods. One attractive feature
of low cost agricultural implements is that it can help raise agricultural
production and increase incomes, thus improving consumer demand in rural
areas.
14.       Most of the following items require simple forging tols, welding
equipment and some jigs and fixtures. In some cases, certain components
may require more sophisticated equipment; in a few, modern small or medium-
scale production would be more appropriate than upgraded blacksmithing and
metal-working operations.
A. CULTIVATION AND HARVESTING TOOLS/EQUIPMENT
(1)  two furrow ploughs;
(2)  single row planters;
(3)  interior cultivators;
(4)  spike tooth harrows;
(5)  various types of ploughs, spares;
(6)  ox-drawn weeders;
(7)  hand planter/seeder;
(8)  rotating hand planter;
(9)  tractor accessories
(10)  spraying equipment;
(11)  hand pumps;
(12)  windmills and pumps;
(13)  plough and tool bar;
(14)  flat valve pump;
(15)  hoes;
(16)  panga and other weeding tools;
(17)  axes.



ANNEX 16
page 4 of 6
B. PROCESSING EQUIPMENT
(1) threshers;
(2) winnowers;
(3) maize and groundnut shellers;
(4) simple oil presses;
(5) feed mixers;
(6) solar heat drier;
(7) kerosene incubators;
(8) pyrethene and tobacco dryers for small farm.
C. STORAGE
(1) storage bins for grains and cereals;
(2) small milk coolers;
(3) water storage tank;
(4) silo.
D. TRANSPORTATION
(1) ox-, donkey-, hand-, and bicycle carts of various designs;
(2) wheelbarrows;
(3) trailers.
Choice and Size of Technology
15.       There are several food processing industries for which alternative
investments and degrees of capital intensity may be chosen. In some cases
prices and quality are comparable; in others different sized investments
result in products suited for distinct market segments.
Woodworking
16.       Rural and urban carpentry workshops probably represent the largest
number of small-scale units. As mentioned earlier, the problem of competi-
tion for a limited market for a narrow line of products is especially pre-
valent in wood working. Diversification and new product development is
essential in these lines if KIE financial and technical assistance is to
result in a net increase in production and employment of carpenters. If
KIE limits its assistance to funds for tools and working capital, the net
result is likely to be the displacement of informal sector carpenters with
a few carpentry units making the same, or slightly improved tables and chairs.
17.       In Kenya, the craftsmanship of carpenters is generally good, i.e.
of a standard acceptable to local, regional or even in some cases export
markets; some upgrading of skills may be required with the introduction of
new products and processes, and in particular in the use of more sophisti-
cated machinery. However, the major training required is in design and in



ANNEX 16
page 5 of 6
such areas of management, as costing and bookkeeping. Another problem is
the acute shortage of timber seasoning facilities.
18.       Craftsman guides or other informal marketing associations could
be developed among carpenters from various RIDCs and IPAs to enable them
to obtain and meet larger orders, especially for smaller wooden items which
are easier to transport.
19.       Product possiblities for rural and urban carpentry workshops include:
(1)  packing crates (tea, tobacco, soft drinks);
(2)  pallets;
(3)  doors, windown frames;
(4)  clothing pegs and hangers;
(5)  sports goods;
(6)  drafting equipment;
(7)  toothpicks;
(8)  neck yokes for oxen;
(9)  television and radio cases;
(10)  special furniture for schools, gymnasiums, hospitals, clubs,
hotels, restaurants, etc.;
(11)  photo and picture frames;
(12)  bobbins;
(13)  educational supplies (rulers, pencils);
(14)  loom accessories;
(15)  toys;
(16)  lamp stands;
(17)  cork products;
(18)  parquet flooring;
(19)  prefabricated housing;
(20)  carvings;
(21)  cedarwood oil;
(22)  orthopedic items;
(23)  patterns for foundaries.
20.       Wood-related industries suitable for larger-scale enterprises
(investments exceeding Sh 500,000) include: sawmills, splints and veneers;
plywood mills; particle board; and kiln drying facilities.



ANNEX 16
page 6 of 6
PROCESSED FOODS WHICH ARE PRESENTLY IMPORTED
-Source
Canned Beef                    Tanzania
Meat Extracts                  U.K.
Dried Meat                     U.S., Netherlands
Cereal Grains                  Netherlands
Breads, Cakes                  U.K.
Preserved Fruit  (canned)    France
Potato Flour, Flakes           U.K.
Preserved Vegetables
Cocoa Butter                   U.K.
Margarine                      Tanzania
Vinegar                        U.K.
Fish Oil                       Norway, U.K.
Olive Oil                      France, Italy
Linseed Oil                    U.K., Germany
Castor Oil                    Netherlands, India
Other Vegetable Oils           Netherlands, U.K.
Source: Annual Trade Report of Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 17
Marketing and Sales Promotion
1.           A  quick survey of the industries set up by KIE on the
various industrial estates reveals that one of the major problems facing
the entrepreneurs is marketing for products. Many of these entrepreneurs
came to KIE with only technical experience in producing the items they
were to manufacture. The firms encountering difficulties explain their
problems as inability to sell their products. However, the reasons differ
from firm to firm. In some cases the entrepreneur has been unable to
find suitable agents and outlets in the major centers.  In other cases the
design of the item has not taken sufficient account of consumer preferences.
In other cases the product plans are too limited, and there are unexplored
possibilities for diversification within the scope of the equipment and
facilities available. Inferior quality and inability to conform to
standards laid down are additional sources for marketing difficulties.
Although KIE management has been aware of this problem for sometime,
no satisfactory solution has yet been found. A marketing adviser from
Germany has joined the team of foreign advisers in the Nairobi Headquarters
and has been studying some aspects of the marketing problem. Some
marketing assistance was also provided by SIDA at the Kisumu estate.
2.          The diversity of products makes the marketing problem especially
complex. Furthermore, the size of enterprises does not permit any extensive
effort in sales promotion even if the entrepreneurs were disposed to devote
funds to this purpose. The general level of entrepreneurship on the
estates suggests that actual sales promotion is needed rather than
marketing advice in general terms.
3.          Despite the wide variety of items produced, a number of products
that could be grouped together.   Examples are household goods, building
hardware, accessories for the textile industry, different types of clothing,
and products catering to the agricultural sector. KIE should consider
developing a sales promotion wing with a number of sales agents who would
each be concerned with marketing a specific group of items. In order
for such a plan to succeed persons are needed with sales experience and
suitable connections with distributors. To put the whole operation on a
commercial basis, the sales agents should be remunerated at least partially
according to the amount of sales they generate.
L.          Before a final conclusion could be reached on the feasibility
of such a scheme, it would be necessary to examine more closely the volume
or potential sales that could be generated in relation to the costs of
such a sales force. A further problem would be how to organize the sales
wing to maintain its business character while maintaining organization
links with a public corporation such as KIE. KIE should therefore have a
study made of this problem by an experienced consultant. (The technical
assistance funds included in this project could be used for this purpose.) The
consultant would recommend the most suitable arrangement for servicing the
marketing needs of the KIE enterprises including the feasibility of esta-
blishing an independent sales agency.
EAPID
October 31, 1977



ANNEX 18
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Disbursement Percentages
Credit Allocated                      % of
(Expressed in                     Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)                 to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans to:
(a)  Workshop               1,430,000                      80%
Enterprises
(b)  Eldoret Enter-         7,320,000                      80%
Drises and
Private Factory
Enterprises
(2) Civil Works:
(a)  Factories                130,000                     40%
and ancillary
facilities at
Eldoret Industrial
Estate
(b)  Workshops and            320,000                     40%
ancillary fa-
cilities in
Industrial
Promotion Areas
(3)  Technical assistance           800,000                     80%
and training
TOTAL           10,000,000
EAPID
October 31, 1977






; E;.SUDr                                      - 'i             :                       ;                   - !  :   -2  w'  5 
5              ,\A  j  KENYA
--7'                                                                                          2  5    o-  1'e4' '               
N~~~~N
                                                                                                   N  /      4     --    '      \ A   U  T  E  -             .                                      -9 ',          's   4,* X ......... A
f % a D -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G .  . 
i3Xt.i. ~   ~              ~             ~ ~ ~ '                                                   FVrXtP IA,< {      .          ..\                         .,.-0, 
32  -      3 '~ ,iEIy Sp-gn.c '.  -'  '     
K                                                   -L f's VP, ~
P                 T                                                       "'= ;ar ^; S ;:; gi \ 4,:/ JD E    A  T    E    R    Ni
.   . r   .f9  '       c   5-                                              F                                   cA
-i           ____A                    Londiani
0                                                                                       T~~~~~~~C     T         4             OEA
Kran.n  seoOtytMI   eoji /to  nlnn
rst&r~ otris  ~i~~s            ~                                                 N                                                                      Pmo Rnoa  nil
K.,h  -         ,I                                                    I     \I ~ I  "                     Bog-Sonaymr
________________________________________                     [Soor              -r--------OSnitarayn~~~~~V
B-~~~~~~~~~~~~~



