cs
~flPJE  t C   7                    IDocument of
The, World Bankr
REPORTS DESK
D    rom 77ffIAL USE ONL!Y                WITHffq
ONE                 f
R1epoirt No. P-2163-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
November 10, 1977
This doesmmenI s a Togfrte dAffouiu  m6on =nBy be  lby ie¢oceeots only Dshe peDfo m  ce off
d&ehr o!cdQll afies. Res comiemats many ur¢ ¢t e 1$e tisdlc@  whhom Woiu*9 Ia3f aXr a QoIioss.



RETURN TO REPORTS DESK
ROOM     A-124 BY:J                  KENYA
SEP 05 1978
Equivalents
ing 1 = US$0.12
illing is officially valued at a
66 KSh to the SDR, the U.S.
Iling exchange rate is subject to
ions in this report were made at
30 which is close to the short-term
rate.)
.scal Year
KIE  -  July 1st   -   June 30th
Abbreviations
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DFCK           Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB           East Africa Development Bank
ICDC          Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Industrial Development Bank
IPA            Industrial Promotion Area
ISPC           Industrial Survey and Promotion Center
KCB            Kenya Commercial Bank
KIE            Kenya Industrial Estates
KITI           Kenya Industrial Training Institute
MTAC          Management Training and Advisory Center
RTC           Rural Technology Center



CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY          FOR OfFXCIAL URE ONLY
FOR SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
IN KENYA
BORROWER:                  The Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                    US$10 million equivalent
TERMS:                     Standard IDA terms.
RELENDING:                 The Republic of Kenya would relend US$9.2 million to
the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) at an interest
rate of 6% per annum, for a period of 15 years includ-
ing 3 years grace. The remaining $0.8 million would
be retained by the Government for technical assistance
and training.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:       The proposed project would further the development of
small scale industry in Kenya. It would, over a
five-year period, support the reorganization and
strengthening necessary to establish KIE, a semi-autonomous
Government-supported industrial promotion agency,
as the principal financial intermediary and promoter
for small scale industries in the country, provide
for the construction of support facilities for modern
small scale industries and rural urban workshops,
and provide credit through KIE to assist these enter-
prises in establishing themselves successfully. Training
and technical assistance is also included.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:
Total Project Cost and Financing
(In $ million)
Foreign              Local                         % Foreign
Govern-          Sub-                   Exchange
IDA      ment      KIE    borrowers    Total     Component
Construction
Eldoret Factories   0.13               0.20        -         0.33        40
Workshops           0.32                0.48       -         0.80        40
Total          0.45               0.68        -         1.13        40
Industrial Credit
Modern Small
Industries        7.32               1.17       2.12      10.61        69
Workshops           1.43                0.86      0.57       2.86        50
Total          8.75                2.03      2.69      13.47        65
Technical Assistance   0.80      0.20       -         -         1.00        80
Total         10.00      0.20      2.71      2.69      15.60        65
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SUBMISSIONS:     December 31, 1981
FREE LIMIT:              $125,000 equivalent for individual subloans;
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                             Fiscal Year
1979    1980    1981    1982
---- in US$ '000 equiv.---
Annual        3500    3500    2600    400
Cumulative   3500     7000    9600  10000
APPRAISAL
REPORT:                Report No. 1554-KE dated October 31, 1977,
Industrial Development and Finance Division,
Eastern Africa Projects Department.
MAP:                   IBRD #12830.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$10.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a project to further the development of
small scale industries in Kenya. From the proceeds of the credit, US$9.2
million equivalent would be relent to Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) at an
interest rate of 6% per annum, and US$0.8 million equivalent would be passed
on to KIE on a grant basis and used to finance technical assistance for the
proposed project. The loan to KIE would be for 15 years, including a
three-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY -/
Background
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Current Economic Position and ProsDects"
(Report No. 1284a-KE, dated October 15, 1976) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in October 1976. The report provided background
documentation for the Consultative Group Meeting on Kenya, held in
November 1976.
3.        With an average per capita income of $220 in 1975, Kenya still
belongs among the poorest countries in the world, despite an excellent
rate of growth of 6.6% per year from Independence until 1973. But growth
slowed down in 1974 and was brought to a near standstill in 1975, as
accelerating world inflation (including rising oil prices) coupled with
persistent drought reduced Kenya's import capacity and economic activity.
The country now faces two basic challenges in its development strategy:
how to resume rapid growth and, secondly,how to ensure at the same time
that the lowest income earners share in economic and social progress.
Weather conditions improved in 1976 bringing growth back to about 5% and
unusually high coffee prices as well as depressed import growth helped to
reduce the deficit on the current account of the balance of payments, thus
providing some temporary relief. However, this does not eliminate the
problem of a structural balance of payments constraint.
1/ Same as in the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project President's Report,
dated May 25, 1977 except paras. 14-15.



- 2 -
4.         Economic development will have to follow a different path in the
future in order to combine rapid growth including progress for the lower income
groups with a lower import dependency. Promotion of rapid growth was the major
instrument through which the Government sought to achieve economic as well as
social objectives in the first decade. More investment was to create better
employment opportunities and higher production was to widen the tax basis thus
allowing more public outlays for educational and health facilities. However,
Kenya's Third Development Plan FY74-78 already recognized that past economic
performance had brought significant benefits to the lower-income groups, but
the poor had not yet benefitted as much as desired. The slowdown in economic
growth in 1974-75 made it difficult for the Government to promote equity because
maintaining production required its full attention. Kenya's deve]opment strategy
should balance the reliance on high growth rates to bring about improved employ-
ment and income-earning opportunities to lower-income groups with a more direct
approach to enhance the productivity of the poor. The Bank intends to give
particular attention to this question in its future economic work.
5.         The Government is now restructuring its development strategy and
implementing the restructuring program. The restructuring will have to be brought
about first and foremost in agriculture, the largest sector in Kenya's economy.
In the past, agriculture contributed in significant ways to rapid growth,
increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution of development
benefits; not only did the sector grow at an average annual rate of 4.7% in total
and 6% in monetary agriculture, the Government also brought several hundred
thousand small farmers into the market economy through special programs in coffee,
tea, pyrethrum and dairy production. Nevertheless, this still left the majority
of the rural population (those living in areas with lower agricultural potential)
in poverty. To assist effectively many of these people in raising farm produc-
tivity and incomes, agricultural support services have to be progressively
extended from high and medium to low and marginal potential agriculture.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and 1975 and Recovery in 1976
6.         In 1974, Kenya experienced with many other countries a serious setback
to its development efforts when soaring world inflation, increasing oil prices
and stagnating export demand coupled with adverse weather resulted in a large
balance of payments deficit and growth slowed down to around 4%. The terms of
trade dropped sharply, the widening trade gap led to an overall deficit and Kenya
had to use part of its foreign exchange reserves, notwithstanding IMF assistance.
At the same time, domestic inflation rose to 15%. In 1975, GDP hardly grew at
all (0.7%) due mainly to disappointing performance in the agricultural sector
where the incentives of higher producer prices were frustrated by adverse weather
for all crops except maize. Employment in the modern sector declined while
inflation continued at a high level of 19%. The terms of trade deteriorated
further but due to low levels of economic activity, imports declined and the
current account deficit as well as the overall deficit were considerably smaller
than in 1974. Economic activity resumed with a 5% growth of GDP in 1976, thanks
to an 8% growth in agriculture following fair weather and higher prices for
several major crops. Also, manufacturing growth improved to 7%. Employment
grew by 4%, while inflation slowed down considerab]y. Imports grew slowly,
while exports increased sharply thanks to exceptionally hiigh coffee prices. The
deficit on current account decreased and Kenya's overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1976.



- 3 -
7.         Throughout the period 1974-1976, the Government has managed to
maintain Kenya's relatively high investments and savings levels, by containing
in particular private consumption growth. Public consumption has, however,
increased as government tasks are expanding steadily. Kenya's budget pol]icy
had traditionally been conservative. Until the early 1970's, Kenya managed
to boost public savings, thus allowing public investments to increase with a
relatively small supplement from foreign financing and very little short-term
credit. The effort to maintain the same investment momentum in the face of
high inflation led to a change in this favorable situation. The overall budget
deficit increased from $101 million in FY74 to $249 million in FY76 and even
somewhat higher in FY77. Larger financing by short-term credit and increasing
recourse to foreign sources became necessary.
Restructuring Program
8.         The Government responded to the economic crisis in 1974, first, by
introducing measures which minimized the loss of reserves and controlled
domestic demand, including sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the
increases in oil prices to users and a freeze in government recruitment.
Secondly, since the Development Plan had been overtaken by events, it formulated
a medium-term Restructuring Program with more modest growth and equity targets.
Achieving these targets requires restraining consumption in favor of investments,
lowering Kenya's high import-dependence and making the economy more export-
oriented.  For the manufacturing sector, this means reorientation of industrial
growth towards greater use of domestic instead of imported resources and promot-
ing efficiency in production for the local market and, increasingly, for exports.
9.         The Government has begun to implement the Restructuring Program.
With regard to budgetary policies, procedures to ensure proper controls on
expenditure have been strengthened. In order to enhance the production and
employment impact of public investments, the Government has shifted resources
from infrastructure outlays which increase production only gradually to more
directly productive sectors, such as agriculture and manufacturing. The latter
sector's share in the development budget increased from 29% in FY74 to 45% in
FY76. Simultaneously, in highway construction which so far has been highly
capital-intensive, projects have now been started using more labor-intensive
technology. In its efforts to influence private sector development, in
particular agricultural production and incomes, the Government has introduced
substantial farmgate price increases in 1975 and 1976. A continuing and
systematic review of these prices is now being mounted. These higher prices
benefitting the farmers are in most cases passed on to the domestic consumers.
This has helped to correct the adverse rural-urban terms of trade and avoid
subsidies to be carried by the Treasury. The Government has also introduced
duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods to
encourage a more rational protective system; it has increased the sales tax on
luxury goods and is paying an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate manufactured
exports. Last but not least, the Government -- in conjunction with Tanzania
and Uganda -- devalued the Kenya shilling by 14% in October 1975.



-4-
10.       Despite these efforts more vigorous Government action remains to be
taken in some areas.    Future industrial growth will depend on the promotion of
efficient industries, some of which may produce import-substitutes but most of
which will be required to compete in export markets outside the East African
Community. At the present time, the manufacturing sector is almost completely
dependent on imported capital equipment and spare parts, and heavily dependent
on imported raw materials and intermediate products. The linkages between
manufacturing and agriculture have not yet been fully exploited. There is also
a need to change trade policies and incentives which presently favor the import-
substitution industries at the expense of others. The Government is now
directly encouraging small - and medium - scale industries which are more
likely to utilize domestic resources and are less dependent on imported
capital equipment than large-scale enterprises; the International Finance
Corporation is executing a project with a commercial bank to promote medium-
scale enterprises. The proposed project will compliment IFC's project and pro-
mote small scale industry development.
11.       The Government continues to make efforts to mobilize additional
resources for the public sector but in view of the already high tax effort it
may prove difficult to keep up with rayldly rising demand for both Government
services and investments. Special pressures on the budget at this time derive
from the Government's intentions to bring more services to the rural areas as
well as cost escalation on many development projects. The Government will,
therefore, require more external assistance. Moteover, after having held down
wages and salaries in the public sector for several years, the Government granted
increases in wages and salaries to lower level civil servants in May 1977, to com-
pensate for increases in the cost of living since mid-1975. In general, the Govern-
ment is likely to experience difficulties in devising wages and incomes policies
which effectively hold domestic inflation below world inflation.
External Debt
12.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations) is
expected to rise to about 10% by 1985. Including the notional share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 31% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
14%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 38% and the IDA share to 15%. Debt
service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service payments; IDA's
share is less than 1%. These two figures are projected to increase to 39% and
1%, respectively by 1985. These reflect the gradual switch by other donors
from loans to straight grants or to loans on very concessional terms in recent
years as well as the Government's conservative commercial borrowing policy.
Despite the considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it must finance
from external sources a substantial part of the costs of the development program,
including local costs.
East African Community
13.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for far-
reaching and comprehensive economfic cooperation arrangements among Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions, policies, and
procedures for operating the common market and the large infrastructure services,
and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been followed, however, by a period



-5-
of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the distribution of net benefits
derived from the Community. The infrastructure services were hampered
by restrictive tariff policies; services declined, and Partner States
subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to keep the
services running. The poor performance of the common services in trans-
port and communications also impaired trade and general movement of goods
within the countries, affecting the general economic development program.
These difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary and balance of
payments constraints faced by all three Partner States in the past few
years. As a consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in the
authority of the Community institutions.
14.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental
political and economic differences had so affected the working of the
Community that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission
was appointed for this purpose in November 1975 but it adjourned in
November 1976 without being able to make agreed recommendations regarding
the future structure of the EAC. Meanwhile, the continuing deterioration
in Community relationships led to a further dismantling of the Corporations.
In the past year the regional corporations for Railways, Posts and Tele-
communications and Harbours have assumed on an ad hoc basis effective
control over their respective services and in early 1977 a series of pro-
blems led to the collapse of the East African Airlines. In view of these
events it became quite clear that an effort would have to be made at
establishing a rational basis upon which the future of the former EAC
Corporations could be resolved. This issue was reviewed during the Bank's
Annual Meeting where all three Partner States agreed on the appointment
of an independent mediator and consultants to assess the assets and liabil-
ities of the Corporations and make recommendations as to how these should
be allocated between the Partner States. The Bank agreed to assist the
Partner States by identifying potential mediators and help prepare terms
of references for this work. It had also been agreed, subject to the
Executive Directors' approval, to amend existing loan documents in ways
which would allow the remaining loan balances to be disbursed for the
intended purposes. Existing arrangements would remain in force until
these changes were agreed and approved.
15.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have
affected the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet
debt service obligations, the Bank had to suspend disbursements in the
past. Since the May 1976 debt service agreement between the Partner States
was finalized all service payments to the Bank with respect to EAC loans have
been met in a timely manner.   Except for a second line of credit to the EADB
in March 1976, the Corporations have received no new loans from the Bank
since 1973.



PART II - BANK GROUP'S OPERATIONS IN KENYA
16.       Hithierto, Kenya has received 25 Bank loans and 22 IDA credits amounting
to $427.9 million and $185.7 million, respectively, supporting 40 operations.
In addition, I'enya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling $244.8
million which have been extended for the development of conmon services (railways,
ports, telecommunications and finance for industry), operated regionally for the
three Partner States of the East African Community. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and East African Corporations,
a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. Through loan and credit negotiations the Government has
taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program. On the insti-
tutional side, the planning and implementation capacity of the IMinistrv of
Agriculture has been strengthened, the Cotton Board has been reorganized, a Land
Use Committee has been set up and the National Committee on Educational Objectives
and Priorities, established in connection with the Third Education Project, has
now completed its work.  However, progress in shifting the focus of the Govern-
ment's industrial policies from import-substitution to domestic resource-based
production capable of competing in export markets is slow.
18.       Significant progress has also been made in restructuring the Bank's
lending program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving it a rural
focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives.
The first Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP), approved in
July 1976, is aimed directly at small and subsistence farmers. The Rural
Access Roads Project, approved at the same time as the IADP, is financing
labor-intensive infrastructural developments. Recently, an Irrigation
Project, a Sugar Project and a Third Agricultural Credit Project were approved.
Last year the Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya for the first
time -- an effort which is intended to help Kenya further exploit its con-
siderable foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending program
is now also progressing well. A third loan to IDB has just been approved
and identification of a large-scale industrial project is now under way.
Assistance is also being given in the preparation of high priority infra-
structural projects, among which are the Nairobi Water Supply Extension and the
Rural Water Supply Projects, and for projects providing additional shelter in Nairobi,
Mombasa and Kisumu through the upgrading and sites and services approach.
19.       Overall., project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception is the Second Livestock Project which is suffering from inadequate
producer prices as well as organizational. difficulties reflecting in part the
complexity of the project.  Progress of the Group Faris Rehabilitation Project has
also been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners
to participate, but this has now improved.  Finally, there have been serious
cost overruns, most notably on the Naiiobi Airport Project and the highways projects.



-7-
20.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in Kenya:
Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd.; Tourism Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit line for
medium and smallscale industries was extended to the Commercial Bank of Kenya.
As of September 30, 1977, IFC held for its own account $28.6 million comprising
$20.6 million of loans and $8.0 million of equity.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
The Industrial Sector
21.       While the agricultural sector in Kenya will continue to dominate the
economy over the next few years, the industrial sector will assume an increasingly
important role in its contribution to overall GDP and employment. The industrial
sector contributed about 14% of GDP in 1975, about 27% of total exports, and
provided employment for about 100,000 people, only 12% of the formal sector labor
force. The total labor force in the country is expected to grow from 6.2 million
in 1975 to 7.4 million by 1980. These figures illustrate the stark reality
of the problem Kenya is facing in creating employment opportunities. Growth of
industrial production has been rapid - 11% per annum between 1968 and 1974. Al-
though it slowed down substantially in 1975 due to the worldwide recession, it
has remained the fastest growing sector in the Kenyan economy in recent years.
This sector has become the single largest contributor to GDP within the monetary
economy. The Government is thus attaching increasing importance to the develop-
ment of a strong industrial sector. Its long-range objective is to support the
diversification, decentralization and Kenyanization of industry.
22.       Until recently, Kenya has followed an industrialization policy which
encouraged import substitution. In the process, however, the industrial sector
developed a heavy reliance not only on imported know-how and capital equipment,
but also on imported raw materials and intermediate inputs, and contributed only
modestly to exports. The need for policy adjustments was strongly reinforced by
the adverse terms of trade in 1974. With the publication of the 1974-1978
Development Plan, the Government announced its intention to focus on domestic
resource-based production and export orientation. Small-scale enterprises would
also receive more direct encouragement. Several steps to adjust existing
policies have already been introduced; these include increases in import duties
and sales taxes, and an export bonus for manufactured products. Further changes
are required, but the Government is proceeding somewhat cautiously. These
include appropriate policies in strengthening export incentives, gradually
liberalizing the import licensing system, rationalizing the tariff structure
and reorganizing the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Bank is working
closely with the Government to ensure that such measures will be implemented
in the framework of the economic restructuring program.
Small Scale Industry
23.       Small scale industry in Kenya (not counting an active informal sector)
provides employment for some 20,000 people. This type of industry, however, was
hit hard by the 1975 recession, and the number of small size firms actually
dropped from 25% (from 4,447 in 1974 to 3,340 in 1975) indicating that the
smallest enterprises were the most severely affected. Most of these firms
in the formal sector are very small, averaging six employees, and their



-8-
production is concentrated in areas such as footwear, clothing and furniture.
These industries face significant technical and financial problems in their
development -- entrepreneurs are often unfamiliar with machinery and its
operation, inexperienced in marketing, and unable to qualify for commercial
financing. Only a few enterprises within this size class can be called
"modern". "Modern" firms generally employ more than 20 persons, use imported
equipment, have semi-automated production processes and produce goods at quality
levels approaching international standards. Most of these 'modern" small firms,
owned and operated by Africans have developed on the industrial estates owned
and operated by the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), a semi-autonomous Govern-
ment-supported industrial promotion agency. A Government survey has shown that
small scale enterprises in the formal sector accounted for 17% of total value
added by manufacturing production in 1972.
25.       In addition to small scale industries in the formal sector, an informal
sector exists which offers considerable potential for growth. These small scale
enterprises, which usually do not pay taxes, or use written records, or have a
permanent location, are estimated to have employed about 500,000 people in 1972.
About 80% of this employment was in rural areas, and involved activities such
as metal and woodworking entities, tailors, cobblers and repair shops. This
sector has received very limited assistance in the form of technical services
or credits, but offers good prospects for growth and also represents a possible
source of entrepreneurs for the proposed project.
26.       The principal constraint facing the development of small scale African
industries in Kenya is the identification and evaluation of enterpreneurs, now
carried on to a large extent on a trial and error basis. This problem will
become less severe as entrepreneural traditions are established in industry.
Other problems include the limited availability of credit for small enterprises
due to the large risks inherent in these types of operation, and the resulting
high default rate, the unavailability of production facilities, and the need
for expertise in dealing with financial management, administration, product
development, production and marketing techniques.
27.       The Government has responded to these needs by sponsoring the creation
of various financial and technical assistance agencies to focus on the special
requirements of small scale industries.
Credit Institutions
28.       Industry in Kenya before Independence in 1963 consisted mainly of
medium and large enterprises established by foreign investors. The few small
industries were also mostly owned by non-Africans. Africans were limited to
artisan activities and rural crafts. After independence, one of the main
aims of Kenya's industrial strategy was to promote African ownership of
industrial firms. Small scale industry provided the best opportunity for
immediate progress towards this objective. The first program of assistance to
small scale industry was a credit scheme established in 1965 in the Industrial
and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) (which primarily assists com-
mercial and property loans    The beneficiaries of this program have predominantly
been traditional small-scale industrial operations such as saw mills, maize
mills, vehicle repair shops, bakeries, print shops, and tailors.     In 1967



-9-
assistance to the small industry sector was formalized with the
establishment of the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) as a subsidiary of
ICDC, and the construction of the Nairobi industrial estate, an area
administered by KIE where factory space and other basic manufacturing
infrastructure is provided to facilitate the establishment of small
industrial enterprises.   Additional industrial estates have since been
developed with foreign technical and financial assistance in Nakuru (1972),
Kisumu (1974), and Mombasa (1975), with a fifth center initiated in Eldoret
(1977). Assistance has also been extended to the informal sector, and
other very small scale enterprises and workshops on the fringe of the formal
sector through the Rural Industrial Development Program, initiated in
1972 with Danish assistance. Rural Industrial Development Centers are
currently located at Machakos, Nyeri, Embu and Kakamega.
29.       A limited amount of financial assistance for small scale industries
has also been forthcoming from the credit institutions although they are
oriented primarily towards larger industrial projects. Both the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB) and the Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK)
assist enterprises with total project costs as low as KSh 13 million
($120,000) but their activities in this area have been small. The Kenya
Commercial Bank (KCB), has provided financial assistance under a project with
IFC assistance to smaller-sized firms showing promise of growth and havine been
in existence for two or three years.
Technical and Managerial Assistance
30.       The principal institution through which technical assist-
ance has been channeled to small industrial enterprises, most of which
have been African, has been KIE (see para 28). Assistance for firms
on the industrial estates (Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu) has covered
areas such as the installation of machinery, management and account-
ing, and product development and marketing. Rural workshops have been assisted
by the provision of common workshop facilities and assistance in product
development. Technical assistance, all of which is provided virtually
free of charge by KIE, has been associated with the provision of
credit from ICDC or from KIE itself. Most of the technical assistance
given to small scale enterprises has been through expatriate advisors,
provided largely through bilateral assistance programs with The Federal Republic
of Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Norway.
31.       Other institutions providing technical assistance to small
scale businesses include the Management Training and Advisory Center
(MTAC) in Nairobi, which has held some training courses, and the
Kenya Industrial Training Institute (KITI) in Nakuru, whose graduates
(about 100) have established enterprises such as repair, metal working
or woodworking shops. The Village Polytechnics and Institutes of Technologies
that have been established through self-help efforts also provide technical and
trades training mainly for schoolleavers, many of whom establish themselves as
entrepreneurs in the local community.



-10-
32.       Assistance in the identification and promotion of new pro-
jects and the development of alternative technologies has been provided
by the Industrial Survey and Promotion Center in the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry. This agency, however, has focused mainly on
the preparation of large projects and advising on industrial develop-
ment policy; its effectiveness has been limited by the lack of staff
and resources, but this constraint is being alleviated.
33.       A newly-expanded Rural Technology Center in Nakuru will
be developing and testing low and medium technology agricultural and
rural transport equipment. Items developed here would form the
basis for small scale production by entrepreneurs which could be
finonced by KIE under the proposed project.
34.       The impact of many of the above-mentioned financial and technical
assistance institutions on small industry development in Kenya has been
significant, especially in comparison with most other African countries.
Substantial financial assistance has been provided through a number of
institutions including the commercial banks; however, these institutions
have been lacking in providing extension services to the entrepreneurs.
The number of institutions and the lack of comprehensive approach to tech-
nical follow-up has affected the quality of lending. For this reason it
was decided that one institution be selected to provide comprehensive
services to small entrepreneurs, i.e. by consolidating financial and
technical services to small-scale industry through strengthening and
expanding the role of KIE. KIE thus became the logical institution through
which future external assistance to small-scale industry should be
channeled.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
35.       The proposed credit of US$10 million equivalent to the Government
of Kenya, 92% of which will be onlent to the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE)
is the first Bank Group project in the small scale industry sector in Kenya.
The proposed project would provide the necessary financial and technical
resources to support the reorganization and strengthening necessary to make
KIE the principal financial intermediary and promoter for small scale indus-
try in the country. A report entitled "Appraisal of a Small Scale Industry
Project - Kenya" dated October 31, 1977 is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The project was identified in March/April 1976, and
appraised in November/December 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington in
October 1977, and the Kenyan Delegation was led by Mr. F. N. Ondieki, Deputy
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A Credit and Project
Summary is given at the beginning of this report.



Project Description
37.       IDA would provide financing for:   (i) loans for equipment and perma-
nent working capital for small enterprises located in factory estates and work-
shops, and loans to a selected 30 modern small scale firms off the estates; (ii)
the construction of 12 factory buildings in order to complete the Eldoret
Industrial Estates; (iii) the construction of 150 workshops grouped in 10 indus-
trial promotion areas (IPAs) in rural Kenya; (iv) the construction of 40 work-
shops in two IPAs in Nairobi; (v) six expatriate technical advisors to assist
in the reorganization of KIE, the development of small scale industry projects,
and the formulation of small scale industry development policies at a national
level and (vi) training of KIE staff.
Project Costs and Financing
38.       Estimated total project cost is US$15.6 million, of which $1.1 million
is for construction, $13.5 million for industrial credit and $1.0 million for
technical assistance (details are given in the Credit and Project Summary). The
project's local cost component of $5.6 million would be divided almost equally
between KIE and sub-borrowers, with each contributing 18% of total project cost.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government (Section 3.03 of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       The proposed credit of $10 million would be made to the Government of
Kenya, and the funds for the construction and industrial credit components ($9.2
million) would be onlent to KIE at 6%, to be established in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement acceptable to the Association (Section 3.01(b) of draft Development
Credit Agreement). Funds for expatriate technical assistance and training are pro-
posed to be made available to KIE as grant or equity. The onlending rate
of 6% and the equity contribution would result in an average cost of resources
to KIE of 3.0% in 1982. KIE's onlending terms to entrepreneurs would
be at 10% for enterprises with fixed assets below KSh 1 million ($120,000) and 11%
for those above KSh 1 million. The average loans to the 30 modern enterprises are
estimated at about $200,000 while the average workshop loans are expected to be about
$12,000.  KIE's subloan terms will vary depending on the subproject cash flow pro-
jections, but are likely to average about 6-8 years with 1-2 years of grace. The
return on rental and portfolio properties by 1982 is estimated at 11%, providing an
8 point spread which would allow KIE to finance the technical extension services,
and phase out the Government annual operating grant. The loan to KIE would have a
f,ixed amortization schedule with a maturity of 15 years including three years grace.
kThis repayment period would allow KIE to roll over the funds received from the
credit about one time.
Procurement, Disbursements and Accounts
40.       Sub-loans would be made on the basis of KIE's appraisals of indi-
vidual projects. IDA would approve all sub-loans from the IDA credit amount-
ing to more than $125,000. Regarding sub-loans below this limit
under the IDA Credit, it was agreed that KIE would not approve the sub-loans
unless it has been notified that its appraisal procedures and methods are
acceptable to IDA (Section 2.02(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). In
view of the large number of disbursements which will have to be made, it was agreed
that KIE will claim reimbursement from IDA, from time to time, against appropriate
documentation for agreed percentages of the disbursements made by it. Equipment
procured under the sub-loans would be too small for international competitive
bidding and KIE would satisfy itself that goods and services purchased are
competitive in quality and price.



-12-
41.       Contracts for construction of the Eldoret Estate and the workshops
under the project would be too small for international competitive bidding and
would be awarded under the Government's local competitive bidding procedures which
are satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.04 of draft Project Agreement).
Disbursements of IDA funds for the construction component of the project (US$450,000)
would be for 40% of total expenditures. Disbursements for the loans for modern
small-scale industries (estimated at US$7,320,000) and for the workshop loans (esti-
mated at US$1,430,000), would be for 80% of the amounts disbursed by KIE. Disburse-
ments of technical assistance and training funds (US$0.8 million) would cover 80% of
total expenditures. In keeping with the national objectives and strategies, KIE would
give special consideration to small scale enterprises. Thus, out of $8.7 million
available for sub-loans under the Credit, only a maximum of $3 million would be on-
lent to enterprises having fixed assets valued at over KSh 1 million ($120,000).
Furthermore, the maximum amount of subloans to an enterprise under the IDA Credit
has been set at KSh 2.4 million ($288,000).
42.       KIE's auditors are Coopers and Lybrand, Nairobi, a well qualified
firm. The auditors are familiar with the reports required by the IDA, and
are fully capable of providing such reports.
Kenya Industrial Estates - Background
43.       Kenya Industrial Estates was established in 1967 as a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC),
a Government corporation. Its main objective has been the development of
Kenyan entrepreneurship through the establishment of small-scale industries
and its main activity has been the development and management of industrial
estates for these industries. KIE has two estates fully occupied (Nairobi
and Nakuru), two estates partially occupied (Kisumu and Mombasa) and one
estate almost ready for initial occupancy (Eldoret). In addition KIE manages
a rural industrial development program to assist small industries outside
towns.
Management and Organization
44.       In the past, the Executive Director of ICDC was the Chairman of
KIE's Board. Other members of the board included the Permanent Secretaries
of the Ministries of Commerce and Industry, and of Finance and Planning, and
three representatives of the industrial and commercial community of Kenya.
The Board of Directors has been making decisions on the establishment of new
industrial estates and also approving projects and selecting entrepreneurs.
In view of KIE's expanded role, the Government increased KIE's share capital
from its nominal value to Sh 50 million and became the direct owner of KIE
in September 1977. In addition to the two Permanent Secretaries, the new
Board now includes KIE's Managing Director and will be eventually complemented
with three representatives of the industrial community. It is chaired by
the Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Industry. The daily management of
KIE is handled by the Managing Director and his Deputy, who have been in their
positions since 1968. KIE's senior management is capable of implementing the
proposed project.
45.       As of December 1976, Kenya Industrial Estates had a staff of 200,
of which 26 were Kenyan professionals. (In addition 19 expatriate advisors



-13-
were assisting KIE). In addition, KIE had 14 vacant professional positions.
KIE had encountered considerable professional staffing difficulties, especially
in recruiting Kenyan economists, engineers and accountants. In 1977, 8 of the
expatriates left after termination of their contract but KIE has put in major
efforts to strengthen its staff capability to cope with the projected operations.
The number of Kenyan professionals was increased to 40 by September 1977.
46.       The Finance Department has been staffed to handle its responsibilities
for the loan portfolio, the collection of rents from estate properties and
accounting. Prior to the 1975 audit, there were a number of inconsistencies
and errors in KIE's accounts. In addition, inadequate attention was given
to notifying borrowers and renters of payments due and to pursuing delinquent
accounts. KIE hired a credit controller to handle the loan portfolio in 1976
and further strengthened the department during 1977. A senior accountant
was recruited to serve as Rent Controller and an experienced professional
from ICDC was appointed Senior Financial Officer. In addition. the proposed
IDA project includes the provision of an expatriate advisor in the department.
His responsibilities would include assistance in the design, implementation,
and monitoring of satisfactory systems of portfolio management, rent collection
and accounting.
Lending Operations
47.       Loans for equipment for industries on the Nairobi and Nakuru estates
have been processed through ICDC after approval of the KIE Board of Directors.
Loans for enterprises on the Kisumu estate are processed directly by KIE after
approval by a locally constituted loan committee; a similar agreement is now
being reached for projects on the Mombasa estate.
48.       The KIE project appraisals followed procedures that did not vary
enough with project size. As a result, too much detail was developed for pro-
jects under KSh 100,000 ($12,000) and not enough analysis provided for pro-
jects over KSh 1.0 million ($120,000). For projects under KSh 100,000 the
assessment of the entrepreneur is by far the most important aspect of eval-
uation and should be emphasized more. For projects over KSh 1.0 million, the
major weakness was in the financial appraisal and market analysis. For these
projects KIE now intends to calculate a financial and economic rate of return
In addition, the grace period and maturity would be tailored to the nature
of the project rather than be uniform. Finally, for projects over KSh 1.0
million, the appraisals should include a discussion of the adequacy of pro-
ject management. The proposed project includes the provision of an expatriate
advisor to assist KIE in establishing appropriate appraisal methods for pro-
jects of various sizes and in training the Kenyan staff in these methods.



-14-
49.       KIE has also administered the rural industrial development
program, which has operated through four Rural Industrial Development
Centers (RIDCs) at Nyeri, Kakamega, Embu and Machakos. About a third of
KIE's employees are at the RIDCs. In the National Development Plan for
1974-1978, it was envisaged that 23 RIDCs would be established by 1978.
However, only four new RIDCs are presently under implementation and the
number will fall short of the development plan. As of June 30, 1976, 70
loans were outstanding to clients of RIDCs.
KIE's Resources
50.       As of June 1976 the Government and ICDC had committed a total of
KSh 36 million of their own funds to KIE for construction of estates and
loans for equipment. However, most of KIE's resources had come from
bilateral donors: KfW, SIDA, DANIDA and NORAD,totalling KSh 72 million
($8.7 million). These resources were transferred to KIE over time as
grants or loans, from the Government through ICDC. In addition to these
resources, the Government has been providing annual administration grants
to cover KIE's operating deficit.
51.       As of June 1976, KIE had KSh 15 million in foreign resources and
KSh 6 million in local resources available for commitment. These resources are
being used for the Kisumu and Mombasa estates and the rural industrial develop-
ment program. KfW is considering new loans of KSh 32 million to finance the
establishment of an estate in Kakamega. KIE's total assets have grown rapidly
in the past few years, from KSh 18.1 million in 1973 to KSh 80.6 million in 1976.
A high level of liquidity has been maintained with current assets at 39% of total
assets. Buildings and other fixed assets comprised 51% of total assets and loan
portfolio only 10%. The proposed project would expand KIE's lending operations
considerably.
Financial Performance
52.       KIE's loan approvals on June 30, 1976, totalled KSh 8.6 million,
two-thirds of which was approved in 1975/76. Eighty percent of the loans were
for amounts under KSh 50,000 ($6,000). Half of the value of the total loan
portfolio was for two loans of over KSh 1 million each (for a tannery and
a sugar factory). Forty percent of the loans were for industries involving
wood products, and fifty percent for food industries. Projects on the indus-
trial estates have created about 1,100 jobs at a fixed asset cost per job
of $7,000 in 1977 prices. This is low when compared with alternative invest-
ments in the industrial sector in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa.
53.       Arrears on loan repayments were rather high, with 13% of the loan
portfolio affected by arrears of over three months. Most of the arrears were
due to the mismanagement of the Nyeri RIDC, whose management system has
since been reviewed, the manager changed and administrative procedures
tightened. There have also been arrears in rental payments by firms leasing
factory space from KIE. Only 82% of the amount due for 1975-76 (KSh 1.06
million) was received. This is the case even though KIE rates are about
50% of existing market rates for comparable facilities. Rental collection
would be improved under the project (para. 63).



-15-
54.       KIE's income and expenses have grown sharply between 1973 and 1976.
Administrative expenses (excluding expatriates paid directly by bilateral
programs) were 10.5% of average total assets in 1976. This unusually high
level results from the large component of technical services necessary for the
development of small industries, and KIE's large administrative support
staff, the growth of which precedes the growth of assets since the full com-
plement of support staff needs to be in place during the early phases of
implementation of the estates and RIDCs. Until now KIE's income has prin-
cipally come from an annual Government administration grant. In 1976 a
grant of KSh 6.0 million provided 80% of KIE's income. To summarize, KIE
has not actively pursued sound financial policies. For example, KIE's
rental charges were about one-half the level indicated by the current value
of factories, mortgage rates, and maintenance costs; KIE's interest rate
of 8% was 2 to 3 points below the market rate for medium and long-term
industrial financing; and KIE did not aggressively pursue interest and rental
collections. And even with the annual Government grant, KIE has experienced
a loss in each of the past 4 years; the loss in 1976 was KSh 1.5 million.
KIE'S Resource Needs
55.       The economy is recovering from the 1974-75 recession.   Moreover,
the shift in Government policy towards supporting domestic resource-based
industries should benefit the small industry sector. In addition, many
possibilities for new products based on local materials exist for small
industries. The free enterprise climate provides entrepreneurs of small
industries the possibility of expansion and the Government is giving high
priority in assisting small industry, and the significant potential for
the development of small industry in Kenya. Forecasts of disbursements
indicate that KIE's operational area of emphasis will be the provision
of credit, with the disbursement of approximately KSh 25 million ($3 million)
for buildings and equipment at industrial estates and rural and urban
industrial promotion areas.
56.       As against the total requirements of KSh 215 million ($26 million)
KIE has commitments from KfW, SIDA and the Government to cover virtually
all of the foreign and local costs for the completion of the construction
and the provision of credit for the Kisumu and Mombasa estates (KSh 40 million).
In addition, approximately KSh 5 million remains to be disbursed from the
NORAD grant and the Government's commitment for the Eldoret estate. The
remaining resource gap through 1981 would be covered by internally generated
funds (KSh 50 million), the part of the IDA Credit loaned to KIE (KSh 76
million or $9.2 million), an expected new loan of about KSh 32 million from
KfW for the Kakamega Estate, and other borrowings of approximately KSh 10
million. In view of the number of other donors involved, coordination of
financing for KIE will continue to be necessary and operational forecasts
and resource needs will be reviewed frequently during supervision.



-16-
Reorganization and Expansion
57.       To accommodate the expansion, KIE has to be reorganized and strength-
ened. The principal features of the proposed reorganization would be: (i)
the establishment of regional centers to be located in the offices of the
five existing industrial estates and the two new estates (Nyeri and Kakamega);
(ii) the strengthened coordination of KIE's technical assistance to entre-
preneurs and follow-up activities; and (iii) the upgrading and expansion of
financial management staff at headquarters and at the regional centers.
58.       Because of increased size and responsibility, KIE would decentralize
its operations to cover the entire country through regional centers. Each
regional center would manage all KIE activities in that region including
development of industries on and off the estates as well as rural and urban
workshops within the region. The regional centers would be primarily respon-
sible for project identification and preparation, selection of entrepreneurs,
and implementation of small-scale industry projects as well as ongoing tech-
nical assistance. The regional centers would prepare and appraise all projects
requiring financial support of up to KSh 1 million.   The regional loan committees
would have autohrity to approve loans up to KSh 500,000. Furthermore, the
regional centers would be responsible for the collection of loans and rents.
59.       An upper limit of KSh 5 million has been fixed for projects to be
assisted by KIE, and it is expected that KIE would focus on financing projects
of relatively smaller size (para 41).   Subloans would be made on the basis of
KIE's appraisals of individual subprojects. Smaller subloans would be subject
to simple appraisal procedures including a basic cash flow analysis, with the
smallest loans (under KSh 25,000) screened quickly for validity of project
concept and competence of the entrepreneur. Subloans over KSh 1 million
(US$120,000) would require calculation of economic and financial rates of return.
All subloans from the IDA Credit amounting to more than US$ 125,000 equivalent
would be submitted to IDA for prior approval (Section 2.02(b) of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). In view of the growing number of client enterprises,
KIE would create a new Extension Services Department at the headquarters to
coordinate and promote the technical assistance to entrepreneurs in such fields
as new product development, marketing, financial management and production
techniques.
60.       The total number of new staff required for the reorganization is 65
including 23 senior professionals. The KIE is actively recruiting staff and
the project includes funds for training of Kenyan staff to complement the
on-the-job training program recently prepared by KIE. It would be a condition
of disbursement for construction that suitably qualified staff were in posi-
tion for the construction of each industrial promotion area and the Eldoret
Industrial Estate (Schedule 1, para 3(c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       The project would also provide financing for six internationally
recruited technical advisors, for a total of twelve manyears of service. UNDP
and bilateral donors have expressed interest in providing financing for this
purpose. If alternative financing becomes available, the technical assistance
funds would be reallocated to other components of the project, subject to IDA's



-17-
approval. Staff would be recruited to assist the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry in coordinating national programs in support of small-scale industrial
enterprises (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       The KIE advisors would strengthen KIE in the functions of:
(i) financial management, (ii) project promotions and appraisal; (iii) pro-
motion, training and development of entrepreneurs; and (iv) technical matters
in connection with the establishment of workshops, factories and estates
at Eldoret region. Suitably qualified staff acceptable to the Association
would be engaged by June 30, 1978 (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
63.       KIE's new financial policies and structure would serve to meet two
objectives: (i) financial autonomy for KIE, so that it can plan with full
knowledge of resources available and so that financial discipline will be
necessary for the success of its operations; and (ii) structuring the terms
of financing and rents for small industries so that successful ones will ex-
pand and move off the estates and unsuccessful ones will be discontinued. To
this end, the Government is providing an equity investment of KSh 50 million
(long-term Government and ICDC loans converted to share capital). Changes in
KIE's financial policies would increase the return from loans and rental pro-
perties, and also include: (i) an increase in KIE's annual interest rate from
8 to 11%, for enterprises with fixed assets above KSh 1 million and 10% for
enterprises with fixed assets below KSh 1 million; (ii) an increase in rental
charges to reflect the long-term marginal cost of such assets; and (iii) sig-
nificant improvement in procedures for debt and rental allocation and tighter
control of administrative expenses. These improved financial policies are
reflected in the Policy Statement (Annex IV) which was agreed and adopted by KIE.
Forecast of Operations
64.       Projections based on an adoption of the financial policies mentioned
in paragraph 63 and assuming an annual provision for bad debts of 10% of the
loan portfolio, are as follows: KIE's total assets would grow about threefold
from 1976 to 1982 (to about $30 million), and KIE's loan portfolio would
double to about $20 million over the same period. Long-term borrowings and
equity would increase correspondingly (from KSh 70 million in 1976 to KSh 250
million in 1982). KIE's debt/equity ratio would fall from 11.8 in 1976
to 0.4 in 1977 after the conversion of KSh 50 million in debt to share capital,
and then, with the substantial borrowing of IDA funds, would increase to 2.7
in 1982, which is still satisfactory.
65.       With the improved financial policies, the Government administra-
tion grant required for KIE to break even would decrease from about KSh 8 million
($1.0 million) in 1978 to zero in 1982. KIE's administrative expenses as a
percentage of total assets would decline from 10.5% in 1976 to 7.0%
in 1982. These levels are high in relation to other DFC's but are appropriate
in view of KIE's substantial technical assistance activities. KIE's cost
of debt would increase from 1.3% in 1976 to 4.2% in 1982 as a result of the
substantial borrowing of IDA funds at 6%. Overall projections of KIE's financial



-18-
position are subject to considerably more uncertainty than for most DFCs
because of KIE's many administrative activities and lack of experience
for loss rates on loans and rents. However, the projections indicate that
KIE has a reasonable chance of achieving a sound financial position by 1982.
66.       In developing subprojects for the modern small industry and workshop pro-
grams, KIE would look into the possibilities of manufacturing local consumer goods
such as building materials, furniture, clothing and footwear, agricultural equipment,
transport equipment and accessories. In addition, small to medium scale agro-process-
ing industries such as sugar refining, tanning and kraft paper production would be
supported. The manufacture and repair of agricultural and rural transport tools and
equipment is another area with potential for growth. In this regard, the
project will provide financing through KIE for the production of low or
medium technology agricultural and transport equipment from prototypes
declared suitable by the Rural Technology Center (RTC) in Nakuru. This
center is in charge of developing and testing designs for "appropriate
technology" equipment for rural Kenya, and would be a valuable source of
ideas for new products, which could be made available to smallholder Kenyan
farmers. Through other Bank/IDA financed projects such as the Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 650 and Ln. 1303-KE), farmers may obtain
agricultural credit for products that will assist the farmer in augmenting his
production. Provision has been made for cooperation between KIE and the RTC
and other institutions (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
67.       The main justification of the proposed project is institution
building. Through KIE, the Government would attempt to achieve its goal
of developing small-scale industry as rapdily as possible. After
reorganization and strengthening, KIE would develop into a major parastatal
body capable of providing small-scale industry with the administrative,
technical and financial assistance required to enhance the growth of this
sector. To enable KIE to achieve this leadership role, project identification,
preparation and appraisal techniques, as well as financial management and
discipline, would be improved. Moreover, technical assistance for rural
and urban workshops would be established.
68.       In addition, the project would provide resources to accelerate the
development of small industries. KIE would establish appraisal procedures
to ensure that the financial and economic benefits of the subprojects are
adequate. Priority will be given to projects in industries based on local raw
materials, avoiding additional claims on scarce foreign exchange. Some
projects would provide inexpensive items, such as simple technology, farm
implements and transport equipment, which would benefit the productivity of
the rural and urban poor. In addition, a small number of industries may pro-
duce for exports. The direct employment aspects of the project would be signi-
ficant with 2,600 jobs created.    The fixed investment cost per job in 1977
prices would be $3,700 ($6,100 for the modern small industry component and
$1,400 for the workshop component), which is low byKenya's industrial standards.
In addition, with its wide geographical dispersion and its emphasis on assist-
ing in the creation and support of a new entrepreneurial class, the project
would enable the Government to work towards its objectives of achieving a
better balance in the geographical distribution of employment opportunities
and of promoting ownership of industry.
69.      The project would be the first national small-scale industry project
by the Bank Group in a major country in Eastern Africa and the first Bank small-
scale industry project in Africa to combine technical assistance and financing
in the same institution. Thus, the project will provide experience for pre-
paring future small-scale industry projects in Africa.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B.   SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bank           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA    1969   EACH       Harbours                 35.0               1.3
674-EA    1970   EARC       Railways                 42.4               7.7
865-EA    1972   EAHC       Harbours                 26.5               2.0
914-EA    1973   EAPTC      Telecommunications       32.5               6.0
1204-EA   1976   EADB       Development Finance      15.0              14.7
Total                                 244.8              31.7
of which has been repaid            39.8
Total now outstanding                 205.0
Amount sold                    24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4     0.0
Total now held by Bank   1/           205.0
Total undisbursed                      31.7
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
(as of September 30, 1977)
There are currently 24 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975, but due
to delays in original planning and by the contractors, they went into production
in November 1975, January 1976, March 1976 and June 1976, respectively. Two more
factories are now under construction and should be in operation shortly.
Construction of three more factories is scheduled to commence in 1977 for comple-
tion in mid-1978. KTDA future plans include three more factories to be constructed
by June 1980, giving a total of 12 factories against the appraisal target of 17.
Because of high construction costs and operating costs, KTDA is studying the
possibility of extending existing factories instead of building new ones and design-
ing future factories to handle more than 1200 tons/annum. Yields of green leaf are
lower than envisaged at appraisal but with the application of fertilizer from a
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loan, improvements are expected.
Because of low yields, delays in the factory program and high factory costs, an
in-depth supervision of the project in collaboration with CDC is scheduled.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive problems in
organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project was
undertaken in March 1976; the mission's report was presented to the Government
in-September 1976, and a series of discussions have been held since that date.
While over the past few years the Government has made progress in bringing crop
and dairy prices to levels which more closely reflect the priority which it
wishes to give to agriculture, no action hAs been taken with regard to the
Government's commitment under this project to fully decontrol cattle and beef
prices within three years after the signing of the credit, i.e. by June 5, 1977.
It is now apparent that the project's objectives cannot be met without an
increase in beef prices. The Bank has therefore notified the Government of its
intention to suspend the undisbursed and uncommitted portion of the Credit
allocated to company and commercial ranches (but not group ranches) of about
$11.0 million unless the Government decontrols prices or increases prices on a
basis satisfactory to the Bank. A Government proposal in response to this
notification is expected by November 30, 1977.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation: $7.5
million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975; Effective Date:
September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Impressive yield and production increases have been accomplished on some
participating farms, and cooperation between the various Government ministries
and agencies concerned has improved. The initial reluctance of groups of
farmers to participate in the rehabilitation program has been largely overcome,
due partly to the example set by the first group farms participating in the
project and partly to the active campaign for the program by politicians and
high-ranking Government officials. However, farm recruitment overall has reached
only 37% of appraisal targets, and it seems unlikely that these targets will be
reached as long as project participation is restricted to farms with a minimum
of 20 members. Many farms with less than 20 members are willing and capable of
joining the rehabilitation program, and the implications of changing the limita-
tion on the minimum number of members are being discussed with the Government.
A study prepared by consultants on the large farm sector is presently being
reviewed by the Government.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Loan and Credit became effective in September 1975, but the start-up
date was January 1976. The planting program is now progressing satisfactorily
on the whole. The cumulative backlog (21% of planting targets), caused mainly
by unfavorable weather conditions and lack of equipment, should be made good
before the end of the project. Government's failure to provide funds delayed
road construction and building programs, but the situation has now improved and
as soon as all the equipment is received these arrears should also be made good
to a large extent. Procurement was slow at first, but is now proceeding normally.
Disbursements have been slightly behind schedule so far. Cost overruns are
expected to occur under certain categories of expenditure: vehicles and equip-
ment, civil works and afforestation.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project: $10.0 million Loan and $10.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Annual Work Plan for FY77 was prepared on time and the first group of
smallholders is receiving assistance. The Annual Work Plan for FY78 was also
submitted to the Association and BADEA on time, and has been approved with a
suggested curtailment of the number of beneficiaries.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: $25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,1983
This Loan became effective on November 3, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: $20.0 million Credit and $5.0 million Loan of April 15, 1977;
Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This credit and this loan became   effective on September 14, 1977.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: $34.0 million Loan and $6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan and this credit have not yet been declared effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 185-KE - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
Effective Date: August 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about two years behind schedule, but is expected to be
completed by December 1977. Delays have been mainly due to problems of appoint-
ing technical assistance specialists and the inability of the Ministry of Works
to provide architectural engineering services. Latest estimates indicate an
increase of 9% in cost overruns in terms of Kenyan shillings. Educational
objectives are, however, being met.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed;
a survey of the physical facilities to be extended at the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational Broad-
casting and Multi Media Service Station design and construction supervision
are being established. The National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities (NCEOP) has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO meeting to
review the NCEOP report took place in January 1977.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan
of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the project has fallen several months behind
schedule, primarily because of a long delay in the award of a major trans-
mission contract. The supervision agreement has now been signed, most major



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
contracts have been awarded and construction of some components is underway.
There has been some delay in the development of the Coastal Province Water
Branch due to difficulties in recruiting managerial and technical personnel,
but the staffing position is now improving.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now substantially
completed, with final completion expected by June 1978. The delay was primarily
caused by a slow start in construction of the regional workshops and camps due
to unforseen difficulties in the acquisition of sites and procurement of steel.
The revised cost estimate is US$16.0 million, about US$1.8 million below the
appraisal estimate becuase of savings on staffing costs and equipment and spare
parts. The remaining balance (US$1.3 million) of the Credit funds will be used
for rehabilitation or replacement of maintenance equipment and purchase of
additional workshop equipment and tools in order to achieve the project's
objectives. The Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1978.
Credit No. 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project, although behind schedule, is now well advanced in terms of
the improvement of the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road
and the construction of the tea roads in the Mount Kenya and Meru areas.
However, slow progress is being made on construction of the settlement roads
in the Eldoret area. The vehicle weighbridges at Nairobi and Mombasa are ready
to go into operation very shortly. The final estimated cost of the project in
terms of Kenya shillings is expected to exceed appraisal estimates by 47%.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Solutions to the problems of disputes with contractors and cost overruns
are well in hand, and the contractors are now working again. Costruction is
about 90% complete and the new facilities should be ready for commissioning
by the end of 1977. The main problem now is in the area of recruiting and
training technicians in the various skills in sufficient numbers to operate
the new facilities. Planning and execution of maintenance programs as well as
the unification and proper management of financial and accounting systems and
controls also continue to be problem areas. The Aerodromes Department is
giving due recognition to these problems, and is now actively seeking solutions.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways; $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date:  November 9, 1973, Cltsirig Date: December 31, 1977.
The project has suffered substantially from recent inflation with estimated
cost overruns amounting to 67%; as a result, the contracts for the improvement of
the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) and Kisii-Mogonga (27 km) roads have not yet gone to
tender. The Government is endeavoring to obtain additional funds to finance the
cost overruns for all road improvements included in the project. Their final
decision is expected shortly.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project: $20 million
Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3, 1975; Closing Date:
February 1, 1979.
Construction was completed in October 1977; commercial operations are
scheduled to commence January 1978 as originally planned. The oil industry, the
Railways and KPC have agreed to install central railroad loading facilities at
KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the US$1.54 million cost is being arranged.
KPC has updated project cost and financial forecast. The project is now estimated
to have a cost overrun of 17%. The increase is primarily due to escalation in
construction costs. KPC's financial prospects cannot yet be fully evaluated
because the Government must still establish a tariff structure. Indications are,
however, that although the long-term outlook is quite satisfactory, there could be
cash flow problems in the initial few years.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project: $4 million
Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Loan/Credit became effective in early October 1976, but no funds have
yet been disbursed. The Rural Access Roads Program, part of which is being
financed under the project, is behind schedule, but progress is improving. Since
loan negotiations, a few changes in evaluation and working methods have been
adopted in the light of experience and these appear to be beneficial to the Program.
The Government has submitted the evaluations for 6 districts for financing under
the project; construction units have already started in 2 of the districts.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1, 1974;
Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's Five-Year
FP/MCH program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components are proceeding
satisfactorily. Twenty percent of the buildings have been handed over and more
than 70% of the construction program has been implemented. Eight-four of the 87
vehicles have been advertised and the Nursing Activities Study and study on the
determinants of fertility undertaken. The program components financed by other
donors and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be completed
on schedule. The program was recently reviewed by an External Review Mission
which commented favorably on progress and made recommendations on future program
directions.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: $63.0 million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. By March 31,
1977, the actual expenditure on the project amounted to 44% of the total estimated
completion cost. On the basis of contracts awarded for civil works and electrical
and mechanical equipment, a decrease of 12% on the appraisal estimate is antici-
pated in the US dollar equivalent of the project cost, resulting in a saving against
the Bank loan of about $6 million. The Bank has indicated its willingness to
increase the percentage of civil works expenditure to be financed by the Bank loan
from 60% to 80%. As a result of the devaluation of Kenya currency in October 1975,
the project cost to the Borrower, in Kenyan pounds, is expected to be about 2%
higher than the appraisal estimate. Consultants' studies on possible alternatives
for future development and a long-term power development plan are under way and
are expected to be completed shortly.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: $5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
This loan has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:    $10.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9, 1975;
Closing Date: July 1, 1979.
Project commitments are well under way, and the loan is expected to be
fully committed by December 1977. As of September 30, 1977, disbursements
totalled $4.3 million.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: $20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Closing Date: July 1, 1982.
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project: $8.0
million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective Date:
September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first phase
(1,000 lots) has been completed on schedule and house construction by allottees
is under way with 75% of the houses completed. Design and engineering for the
rest of the project has been completed and tendering is expected to take place
in two stages in November and December 1977. Three of the studies attached to
the project have been completed; the fourth, monitoring and evaluation, is in
progress.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17 million Loan of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date:- November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The loan was declared effective on November 10, 1976. Preparation for
project implementation has been considerably slower than expected, due largely
to delays in recruitment of personnel for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and
the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). The head of the WPU and the project engineer
for the PMU should be appointed by December 31, 1977. Project implementation is
expected to accelerate as officers are appointed for most of the unfilled posts.
Preparations for the Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study
are proceeding satisfactorily, A supplementary letter augmenting the Govern-
ment's proposal for anti-poaching operations to be financed by the Loan has been
negotiated and signed, but disbursements on this component will not begin until
the Bank has satisfied itself as to Government progress on the actions described
and scheduled in the letter.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan of
August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16, 1969;
Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16, 1973;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project financed
partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than 95% complete.
The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA were completed in September
1975, six months behind schedule. All loan funds are now committed. Some
smaller project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA will have to
be deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters
financed by CIDA have occurred, and their credit has been increased accordingly
from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port labor productivity has
stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined considerably.
General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam,
where the three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been completed and are
being used. Cargo handling productivity here has improved with increasing
throughput. The Closing Date of Loan 865-EA has been extended from June 30, 1977
to June 30, 1978.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan of May 25, 1970;
Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously delayed
due to political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted investments. Agreement was
reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist EARC with outstand-
ing organizational and financial issues. Coopers and Lybrand (financial
consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC
(technical consultants) have submitted a report on decentralization of the
railways.. The Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
dll major works other than microwave or UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the relocation of the headquarters. Because of the
long lead time required for the microwave equipment, the project is expected
to be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been
postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0 million Loan
of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976; Closing Date -
March 31, 1980
This Loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. Eight subprojects
submitted by EADB for financing under the Bank loan have been approved, for a
total commitment of $8.9 million. One further subproject is under review in
the Bank. Some $0.3 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted
balance amounts to $6.1 million.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN KENYA AS AT SEPTEMBER 30, 1977
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ Million
Year             Obligor            Type of Business           Loan    Equity   Total
1967, 1968
& 1973    Kenya Hotel Properties          Hotels            5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974
& 1977    Pan African Paper Mills         Pulp and Paper    13.1     6.3     19.4
1972         Tourism Promotion Services      Hotels             2.4      -       2.4
1976         Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.      Textiles          6.3      2.8      9.1
1977         Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd.     Capital Market     2.0      -       2.0
TOTAL Gross Commitments                     29.0     9.8      38.8
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                 8.4     1.8      10.2
TOTAL Commitments
now held by IFC                          20.6     8.0      28.6
TOTAL Undisbursed                            3.2     0.6       3.8



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    About 18 months
(b) Preparation by: GOK/IDA
(c) Initial discussion with IDA: March 1975
(d) Appraisal Mission: November/December 1976
(e)  Negotiations:   (3 - 10 October, 1977)
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: February 1978
Special Bank Implementation Action
None required.
Special Conditions
(a) The following would be conditions of disbursement for:
(i) construction on the industrial estate at Eldoret: that
suitably qualified and experienced technical staff had
been appointed (para 60); and
(ii) construction of workshop clusters: that suitably qualified
and experienced staff had been posted to serve the indus-
trial promotion areas (para 60).
(b) The following are assurances given by the Government that would
assist in the implementation of this project:
(i) that the foreign exchange risk for the Credit would be borne
by the Government (para. 38);
(ii) that the funds for the construction and industrial credit
components (US$9.2 million) would be onlent from the Government
to KIE at 6% (para. 38);
(iii) that staff to coordinate Small-Scale Industry Programs and to
strengthen KIE had been engaged by June 30, 1978 (para 61);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) that subloans from the IDA Credit amounting to more than
US$125,000 would be submitted to IDA for prior approval,and
that the initial subprojects to be financed out of IDA
funds would be submitted to IDA for approval until such
time as the appraisal techniques were found acceptable to
the Association (para. 40 ); and
(v)  that a mechanism for coordination between KIE and the Rural
Technology Center and other institutions involved in appropriate
technology would be established (para 66).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LIMITED
STATEMENT OF POLICY
The KIE is a financial and technical service institution wholly
owned by the Government of Kenya for the purpose of furthering the economic
development of Kenya by assisting in the promotion, establishment and expan-
sion of small scale industrial enterprises including mining, agro-industries,
engineering, manufacturing, processing, assembling, consumer and service
industries in accordance with the provisions and priorities of the successive
National Development Plans.
The KIE will promote the industrial development of Kenya through
one, or a combination of the following methods:
(a) Provision of medium and long-term finance to small
industries throughout the country;
(b) Provision of technical services including, but not
limited to, assistance in the preparation, imple-
mentation, and management of enterprises;
(c) Establishment and management of (1) industrial estates,
(2) rural industrial development centres, and (3) indus-
trial promotion areas and workshop clusters in both
urban and rural areas;
(d) Participate in equity from time to time if such parti-
cipation is necessary for the projects to come off the
ground.
I.         FINANCING
The KIE will finance or otherwise assist enterprises creating new
productive assets and will not normally engage in refinancing operations, unless
the original financing had prior consent of the Company.
The KIE financial operations shall be guided by sound banking prin-
ciples. The Company's investment decisions shall be based on appropriate ap-
praisal methods and will particularly take into account the total financial
requirements of the project and the adequacy of the resulting financial struc-
ture for the enterprises.
The Company shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects and those which are competently managed either
by the entrepreneurs themselves or by full-time qualified managers.



ANNEX IV
-2-                                  Page 2 of 4
The Company shall not invest in any enterprise in which the total
cost of fixed assets, including permanent working capital, estimated after
completion of the project is more than Shs. 5.0 million. For any enterprise
in which the total cost of fixed assets, including permanent working capital,
is (a) Shs. 3.0 million or less, the Company will not invest more than 85% of
the total costs of the project and (b) more than Shs.3.0 million, the Company
will not invest more than 80% of the total costs of the project. These
limits will be subject to review from time to time, according to changing
economic situations.
If an economically worthwhile project cannot take off without KIE's
participation or in case an on-going project cannot continue production for
the same reason, the Company may consider participation in equity subject to
a maximum of 25% of the shares.
The Company's total debts shall not at any time exceed three times
the amount of its unimpaired subscribed share capital plus surplus and
reserves.
The Company shall seek to diversify its financing both geographically
and by industrial sectors.
The Company's investment in any one enterprise will be in keeping
with the national objectives and strategies. The Company shall give special
consideration to enterprises utilizing local materials and technologies which
emphasize the creation of employment in relation to the capital invested.
To the extent possible, the Company will also give special consideration to
enterprises oriented towards exports.
The Company will, from time to time, review and fix rates of interest
bearing in mind the cost of borrowing, the necessity of making adequate provision
for doubtful investments and the prevailing economic factors. The Company shall
charge an interest rate of 10% per annum on projects whose total cost is
Shs. 1.0 million or less and 11% per annum on projects whose total cost exceeds
Shs. 1.0 million. The Company shall charge fees and commissions at rates to be
determined from time to time.
The Company shall take such security for its loans as it shall deter-
mine adequate and reasonable.
The Company shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
-3-
II.       TECHNICAL SERVICES
The Company shall provide recipients and potential recipients of
KIE loans with a range of services as needed to assist in the efficient
establishment and operation of their industries. These services shall
include, inter-alia:
(a) identification of suitable items for manufacture, determina-
tion of viable scale of operations, and assistance in
planning the financing, equipment, and manpower needed;
(b) technical advice in selection, installation and maintenance
of equipment;
(c) analysis of production problems impeding full utilization of
capacity or resulting in inadequate quality standards;
(d) assistance in the development of new products and preparation
of tooling and design and fabrication of new equipment;
(e) advice and training in management;
(f) assistance in marketing; and
(g) in collaboration with other institutions, investigate the
most appropriate processes and technologies and develop
equipment suitable for application in the country.
III.      ESTATE MANAGEMENT
The provision of facilities and factory premises will continue to
be an essential activity of the Company. In keeping with this role, the
Company will manage and operate industrial estates in main population centers
and will provide workshop facilities in industrial promotion areas.
Factory and workshop premises will be constructed at minimum cost
and only after a substantial fraction of the projects to occupy the premises
have been identified and approved. The factory and workshop premises on the
estate or in industrial promotion areas will either be rented or sold to the
entrepreneurs. If the premises are rented, then the entreprenuer shall pay
the standard rent for the premises, as determined from time to time, to reflect
the long-run marginal costs of facilities.
If the factory or workshop is located off the estate or off an
industrial promotion area, then the entrepreneur shall be responsible for
the construction of adequate facilities, and the construction cost shall be
included in the total project cost. Such construction must conform to the
approved standards.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
-4-
The Company shall establish and operate common technical service
facilities at the estates and industrial promotion areas if there is adequate
demand for such services. Charges shall be made for these services according
to a fixed schedule, and these services shall progressively become financially
self supporting.
General
The Board shall conduct the business of the Company in accordance
with the Company's Act, and other relevant laws and regulations in the country.
The Company shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations
and establish terms and conditions of service as will enable it to attract
such personnel.
This policy statement shall be subject to review from time to time
in accordance with government policies and strategies.
October 7, 1977



2.~~~~ K. ~~KENYA
)  "ANI  SMAALL-~SCALE~ WhDUSTRY PROSJECT
/  I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S    /  Doob,    'N.                      ..-. -~~~~~~~~~~~~I',../
I........erpson  G,S
'Bonrra  A- NNP ~ ~ ~ ~ E   A T  E R  
~~~--~~~~N  0I  Rpaioa   E  roons   I 
o1 RG A0UD  PUA  N05RA  OOLPMtTAOPP V  --            atoa  aro
LA PLNES TE t~PtN  tOAINAE  nt~<'                    utao  ato
APPOOIAP  REIONL ONDAAUOAIESN  ,~OBAS  PrvjLta 000N
Ae ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-0 Ct:  n  aSa
KAKAMEA,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4~4E 0OEOMAAPnrn od
'KISUM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o d  C  O  60 40o        ~   Sonat  od
KtIOMECEDMBU        GA---Rtay
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- tlrOtp,budr 
t,Ik                BU~O-0  0 00 C  o  .-   -eoorlbO.dr
R, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AhS'.~.         o    rittbodt
36 AhOtK,              Oloat 



