CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 750 RE
Project Agreement
(Small Scale Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LIMITED
Dated November 28, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 750 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 28, 1977 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LIMITED (hereinafter called KIE).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that KIE agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and KIE, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to KIE on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS KIE, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of KIE
Section 2.01. (a) KIE shall carry out Parts A, B and C (1) of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices


﻿-2-
and shall conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and personnel, and in accerdance with the
Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise accept, KIZ will
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the implementa-
tion schedule set out in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, KIE shall submit
sub-loans to the Association for approval or for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) to the Association for approval, KIE shall furnish to
the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the sub-loan, including the schedule of amortizaton therefor;
(iii) a description of the arrangements KIE has made for providing
technical assistance to the Investment Enterprise on an ongoing
basis; and (iv) such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c) Each request by KIE for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit \ccount in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the sub-loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Association and KIE shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented to
the Association on or before December 31, 1981.
(e) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Association and KIE shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond ten years from the date of approval by the Association of


﻿- 3 -
such sub-loan, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of autho-
rization by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account in i spect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approxi-
mately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
(f) KIE shall transmit to the Association, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by KIE in
respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan other than
sub-loans to Workshop Enterprises.
Section 2.03. In order to assist KIE in promoting small
scale industries and improving its financial performance, KIE
shall employ by June 30, 1978, or such later date as the Associ-
ation may agree, suitably qualified staff for each of the purposes
hereinafter described whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association. The respective functions of such
scaff will be to assist KIE in performing the following functions:
(i) financial management,
(ii) project promotion, preparation and appraisal,
(iii) promotion, training and development of entrepreneurs,
(iv) technical matters in connection with the establishment
and operation of the Eldoret Industrial Estate, and
factories off the Estate, and
(v) establishment and oderation of rural workshops in the
Eldoret region.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for Part B of the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be procured pursuant to competitive
bidding in accordance with the procedures which the Borrower's
Ministry of Works would be required to apply in respect of the
particular type of contract involved.
Section 2.05. (a) KIE undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Part B of
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to


﻿4
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any Indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by KIE, to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, KIE shall
cause all goods and services for Parts B and C of the Project
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) KIE shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules in connection with Parts B and C (1) of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) KIE: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower for Part B of
the Project, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part B of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it, the Investment
Enterprises, Investment Projects and sub-loans.
(c) KIE shall: (i) enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of KIE; (ii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning the administration, operations and financial condition of
KIE and its subsidiaries; and (iii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. KIE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, KIE shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
E.ation 2.08. (a) KIE shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) KIE shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by KIE of its obligations under this Agreement
or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) KIE shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project financed under a sub-loan in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Association and of KIE,
to comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve the purposes of the
Project.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, KIE under-
takes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any
sub-loan will be made on terms whereby KIE shall obtain, by
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and KIE, including the right of KIE to: (i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them
and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Association if the Associa-
tion shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require
that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such


﻿insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the sub-loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Association or KIF shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failUre by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with KIE.
(b) KIT   shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and KIE, (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.10. KIE shall duly perform all its obligations in
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of KIE by the Borrower or its agencies or others for
relending, investment or management. KIE shall promptly inform the
Association of any action which would have the effect of assigr.-
ing, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Section 2.11. It KIE establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
KIE shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obliga-
tions of KIE hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations
were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.12. (a) KIE ihall use in its lending operations
standard forms of loan agreement and lease agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.
(b) KIE shall at all times adequately supervise its loan
portfolio in accordance with standards for supervision acceptable
to the Association.
(c) KIE shall make experienced and qualified staff available
to enterprises in its industrial estates and industrial promotion
areas on a regular basis for the purposes of providing advice on
new product development, marketing, financial management and
production techniques and arranging bulk purchases of materials in
appropriate cases.


﻿- 7 -
(d) KIE shall, use techniques acceptable to the Association
for appraising Workshop Enterprises applying for sub-loans.
Section 2.13. KIE shall make no change in its Statement of
Policy which would materially and adversely affect its operations
and financial condition without the prior concurrence of the
Association.
Section 2.14. Except as the Association and KIE shall other-
wise agree, KIE: (a) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (b) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. KIE shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of KIE.
Section 3.02. KIE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of KIE and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. (a) KIE represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any assets of KIE or any subsidiary as
security for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or
disclosed in writing by KIE to the Association.


﻿-8-
(b) KIE undertakes that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of KIE or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on the Credit and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Association; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of KIE or of any subsidiary as
security for any debt, KIE shall grant, at no cost to the Associ-
ation, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Association to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Credit; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the tinte of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, KIE shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
KIE's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as .,hall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.05. KIE shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of KIE which, in the
judgment of the Association, would materially and adversely affect
KIE's ability to meet its financial obligatiovs.
Section 3.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Association and KIE, KIE shall not incur or permit any sub-
sidiary to incur any debt if, after Lne incurring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of KIE and all its subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times the
consolidated capital and surplus of KIE and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by KIE or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;


﻿-9-
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement pro-
viding for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of Shillings, debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by KIE for the purposes of servicing
such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of KIE and all its subsidaries" means
the total amount of debt of KIE and its subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by KIE to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to KIE
or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of KIE and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of KIE and its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of KIE in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in KIE or
any other subidiary.
Section 3.07. KIE shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Shillings) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 3.08. The Association and KIE shall from time to
time, at tne request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of KIE and its subsidiaries, and KIE shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of KIE and its subsidiaries.
Section 3.09. KIE shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.10. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, all sub-loans for projects of KShl,000,000 or less shall
bear interest at the rate of not less than 10% per annum, and all
sub-loans for projects of more than KShl,000,000 shall bear
interest at the rate of not less than 11% per annum.
(b) The interest rates set forth in subsection (a) above
shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, in connection with
an interest rate study to be undertaken by the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of KIE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
KIE of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 11 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For KIE:
Kenya Industrial Estates Limited
P.O.Box 18282
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
RAINDEST
Nairobi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of KIE may be taken or executed by its
Manag'ng Director or such other person or persons as its Managing
Director shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. KIE shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of KIE, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by KIE pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in Nairobi, Kenya,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES LIMITED
By Is! K. Arap Ng'eny
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Implementation Schedule for
Part B af the Project
(Section 2.01 (b))
The approximate number of factories and workshops to be
constructed under the Project, the latest date for their com-
pletion and the dates by which they will be occupied by enter-
prises are shown cumulatively in the table below.
Completion (Cumulative)
Occupancy Dates June 30
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Factories in Eldoret
Industrial Estate               6      12     12      12      12
Number occupied            -       6      12     12      12
Workshops in Nairobi
Industrial Promotion
Areas                           -      13      26      40     40
Number occupied            -      10      20     36      40
Workshops in other
Industrial Promotion
Areas                           -      50     100     150    150
Number occupied            -      43      90    133     150


