                                            Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 29332-CO




                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                        PROPOSED LOAN

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$2.0MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                              FOR A

                             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
         TO SUPPORT THE SECOND PROGRAMMATIC LABOR REFORM
          AND SOCIAL STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT LOAN(PLaRSSAL 11)


                                          October 5, 2004


HumanDevelopment Sector ManagementUnit
Colombia-Mexico Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective 08/12/2004)


                             Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                              2,594.50 COP = US$1
                            US$0.0003854       = COP 1

                                      FISCALYEAR
                                January 1      - December31



                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A R S    Insurance Entities o f Subsidized Regimes (Administradoras del Regimen Subsidiado)
C A P    Centers of Integrated Care for Preschool Children (Centros deAtencidn Integral a1
         Preescolar)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCF      Worker's Family Assistance Funds (Cajas de CompensacidnFamiliar)
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CNSSS    National Council o f Social Security inHealth (Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social en
         Salud)
CONPES   Nacional Council o f Economic and Social Policy (Consejo Nacional de Politica
         Econdmica y Social)
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI      Consumer Price Index
DANE     National Administrative Department o f Statistics (Departamento Administrativo Nacional
         de Estadistica)
DAPRE    Administrative Department o f the President o f the Republic (Departamento
         Administrativo de la Presidencia de la Repziblica)
DNP      National PlanningDepartment (Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn)
DPT      Diptheria, pertussis, tetanus (immunization)
ENCV     National Survey o f the Quality o f Life (EncuestaNacional de la Calidad de Vida)
EPS      Insurance Entitieso f Contributory Regimes (Empresas Promotoras de Salud)
FBS      Selection under a FixedBudget
FIAL     Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loan
FOSYGA   Health Care Sector Fund(Fondo de Solidaridady Garantia)
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOC      Government o f Colombia
HCB      Community Childcare Centers (Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar)
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICBF     Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
ICFES    Colombian Institute for the Achievement o f Higher Education(Instituto Colombiano
         para el Foment0 de la Educacidn Superior)
I C T    Information and Communications Technology
ICR      ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA      International Development Association



                                               11
                                               ..

IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
I N S    National Health Institute (Instituto Nacional de Salud)
IPS      Health Care Providers
ISS      Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguridad Social)
LCS      Least-Cost Selection
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
M C      Community Caregivers (Madres Comunitarias)
MEN      Ministryo fEducation
M&E      Monitoringand Evaluation
MHCP     MinistryofFinance (MinisteriodeHacienday Cre'ditoPublico)
MSP      Ministryof SocialProtection
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NTS      National Training System
P A D    Project Appraisal Document
PACES    Program for Expanding Coverage o f Secondary Education (Programa deAmpliacibn de
         la Cobertura de Educacibn Secundaria)
PAHO     Pan-AmericanHealth Organization
PA1      Expanded Program o f Immunizations (Programa Ampliado deImmunizaciones)
PCU      Project CoordinationUnit
P D      ProgramDocument
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIP      Project ImplementationPlan
PIU      Project ImplementationUnit
PLaRSSAL Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan
QBS      Quality-Based Selection
RAS      Social Safety Net (Red deApoyo Social)
RSS      Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad Social)
SAT      Tutorial Learning System (Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial)
scs      Social Control System
SDR      Special DrawingRights
SECAL    Social Sector Adjustment Loan
SENA     National [Technical] Training Institute (Sewicio Nacional deAprendizaje)
SISBEN   Beneficiary Selection System (Sistema de Seleccibn de Benejkiarios)
SPS      Social ProtectionSystem
SSR      Social Risk System (Sistema Social deRiesgo)
TAL      Technical Assistance Loan
TOR      Terms o f Reference
UPC      RiskAdjusted Health Insurance Per Capita Payment (Unidad dePagoper Capita)


                            Vice President:        Davidde Ferranti
                         Country Director:         Isabel Guerrero
                            Sector Director        Ana-Maria Arriagada
                           Sector Manager:         HelenaRibe
                    Country Sector Leader          Mark Hagerstrom
                       Task Team Leaders:          Vicente Paqueo and Wendy Cunningham




                                               iii


                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................    1
 1.     Country and sector issues................................................................................................                   1
 2.     Rationale for Bank involvement .....................................................................................                        1
 3.     Higher level objectives to which the Project contributes................................................                                    2

B
.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................       3
 1.     Lendinginstrument           .........................................................................................................       3
 2.     Program objective and phases.........................................................................................                       3
 3.     Project development objective and key indicators..........................................................                                  3
 4.     Project components .........................................................................................................                3
 5.     Lessons learned and reflectedinthe Project design .......................................................                                   5
 6.     Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection..........................................................                                  6

C. IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................       6
 1.     Partnership arrangements................................................................................................                    6
 2.     Institutional and implementation arrangements                       ....................................................................    7
 3.     Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results                             ..............................................................   7
 4.     Sustainability...................................................................................................................
              *    . .                                                                                                                              8
 5.     Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.............................................................                              8
 6.     Loan conditions and covenants .......................................................................................                       8

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                        ...................................................................................................       9
 1.     Economic and financial analyses....................................................................................                         9
 2.     Technical.........................................................................................................................          9
 3.     Fiduciary ......................................................................................................................... 9
 4.     Social............................................................................................................................... 9
 5.     Environment....................................................................................................................             9

 6.     Safeguardpolicies         .........................................................................................................        10
 7.     Policy exceptions and readiness....................................................................................                        10

Annex 1: CountryandSector Background                          ..............................................................................       11

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                            .................16


                                                                  iv

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................     19

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description           ......................................................................................      25

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................      34

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................     36

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                           ..................................... 38

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................      40

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 .............................................................................     43

Annex 10: Project Preparation and Supervision                    .....................................................................     44

Annex 11: Documents in the Project File              .................................................................................     45

Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................     46

Annex 13: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................      48


Map:  IBRD31251R




                                                            V

                                                   COLOMBIA

              TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOANTO SUPPORT THE PLaRSSAL I1

                                   PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                  LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                                   LCSHS-DPT

Date: August 30, 2004                                       Team Leaders: Vicente Paqueo and Wendy
                                                            Cunningham
Country Director: Isabel M.Guerrero                         Sectors: Other social services (45%);Health
Sector Managermirector:                                     (30%);Primary education (15%);Secondary
        Helena G. Rbe/Ana-Maria Arriagada                   education (10%)
                                                            Themes: Social riskcoping (P);Other social
                                                            protectionand riskmanagement (P);Education for
                                                            all (P);Social riskreduction (P);Education for the
                                                            knowledge economy (S)
Project ID:PO88857                                          Environmentalscreening category: Not Required
LendingInstrument: TAL                                      Safeguard screening category: N o impact


[XI Loan     [ ] Credit      [ ] Grant    [ 3ProjectFinancingData
                                             Guarantee            [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 2.0
Proposedterms: Fixed Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 10.5
Commitment fee: 0.85%                                                                Front end fee (FEF): 0.5%
Initial choice o f interest-rate basis: suitability to the country's external debt portfolio
Type o frepayment schedule
[X ] Commitmentlinkedwiththe following repaymentmethod: Tailored
[ ] Linkedto Disbursement
                                             FinancingPlan(US$m)
                      Source                                Local               Foreign              Total
BORROWER                                                                              0                  0
INTERNATIONALBANKFOR                                                                2.00                2.00
RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
Financing Gap
Total:                                                                              2.00                2.00

Borrower:
Republic o f Colombia
ResponsibleAgencies: DNP,MSP,MEN(MSP=PCU)
Contact: Ramiro Guerrero, Technical Vice-Minister
Ministryof SocialProtection
Carrera 13 #32-76, 22ndFloor -Bogota, Colombia
Tel: 571-336 5066 ext. 2210 - Email: rguerreroc@minproteccionsocial.gov.co


                                                          vi

The CAS didnot envision the TAL inits list o fprojects. However, during
preparation o f PLaRSSAL I, Bank and the GOC agreed that a small TAL
                               the
would be desirable to provide highly selective support to improve GOC's capacity


Re$ PAD D.?
Have these been approved by Bank management?
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [ x ] N o
Does the Project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                          [x]Yes [ ] N o
Does the Project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref:PAD D.7                                                                         [x]Yes [ ] N o


Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

The project would assist the Department o fNational Planning(DNP) and the Ministries o f Social
Protection(MSP) and Education (MEN) to improve their knowledge, develop effective instruments, and
strengthen their ability to carry out reforms supportedby the Programmatic Labor and Social Structural
Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL).
Project description Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4

The project would fund selected analytical, advisory and consensus building activities o f the MSP, the
MENandthe DNPto promoteresults-based managementofreforms andto strengthen:
(i)MSP's capacity to implement a coherent social protectionreformthat encompasses employment,
training, health and social assistance for the poor and vulnerable (Component 1);
(ii)MEN'Sability to implement education decentralization reforms mandated by Law 715 more
effectively, analyze primary and secondary school integration and evaluate the school readiness o f 5-year
old children (Component 2); and
(iii) capacityforinstitutionalizingperiodicevaluationandmonitoringofnationalsocialprograms
     DNP's
for citizens' oversight and feedback (Component 3).
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.4, TechnicalAnnex 10
NONE
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation: November 4,2004
Loan effectiveness: January 31,2005
Covenants applicable to Project implementation: None




                                                     vii

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

Since its economic crisis at the close o f the 20` Century, Colombia has achieved economic and social
progress. With its economy growing at over 3 percent annually and the unemployment rate recently
declining by 3 percentage points to 14 percent, poverty rates have begun to decline for the first time in
seven years and security has improved, as indicated by a decrease in the number o f ludnappings and the
increasingpresence o f government forces inthe more violent regions o f the country.

However, difficult challenges remain, as discussed in the accompanying Program Document o f the
Second Programmatic Labor and Social Structural Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL 11). Colombia
continues to suffer from high levels o f poverty. Many children remain vulnerable to illness and, while
substantial resources are spent on health, a high proportion o f families still lack adequate protection
against financial losses from illness and they lack good quality basic health care services. Moreover,
Colombia lags behind similar countries in the level and quality o f education and training, which
undermines the country's prospects for long-term competitiveness and growth.                Complicating the
situation i s the violent conflict that continues to consume a large portion o f the budget and leads to social
strife, by displacing millions o f citizens from their homes and increasing the burden on the country's still
inadequate social protection system.

To address these challenges, the Government o f Colombia (GOC) has developed an ambitious labor and
social reform agenda. The GOC has initiated many sweeping policy and structural reforms over the last
few years to improve the performance o f the social sector and the functioning o f the labor market (see
accompanying PLaRSSAL I1Program Document). These reforms include, inter alia: (i)              the creation o f
the new Ministry o f Social Protection(MSP), generated through a merger o f the Ministries o f Health and
Labor, to oversee and coordinate all social protection, health and labor policies, regulations, and
programs; (ii)  implementationo f the decentralization law (Law 715) o f the year 2001; (iii) amendment
                                                                                               an
o f Law 60 o f 1993 (modifying the formula for transferring education and healthresources to departments
and municipalities in order to promote efficiency and service quality); and (iv) the enactment o f the labor
reform Law 789 o f December 2002, which seeks to lower the costs o f labor and provide more flexibility
to labor contracts.

Ifproperly implemented, these reforms are expected to increase employment andproduce significant and
sustained improvements in the existing systems o f social protection, health and education and worker
training. The GOC has requested technical assistance to implement these reforms effectively and to
measure results. While the GOC staff i s highly competent, there may not be sufficient time for staff to
both carry out the normal work required by social agencies and to ensure timely and sustained
implementation and monitoring o f these new reforms. It i s expected that when the proposed Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL) i s completed, key staff o f participating agencies would have improved their
knowledge, analytical tools, and ability to advance human development reforms and manage those
reforms for results.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

Duringthe deliberation o f the FirstProgrammatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan
(PLaRSSAL I),     it was agreed that technical assistance support would help to reduce implementationrisks
and promote the sustainability o f the PLaRSSAL reforms. The Bank i s arguably well-positioned to be
involved inthe project. First, the value-added o f its assistance i s highdue to its technical expertise in the
above-mentioned reform areas. This expertise has been established through its high-quality regional and



                                                        1

country-level analytical and advisory work. Second, the Bank has developed close rapport with the GOC
and a credible reputation on social and labor reform issues through its series o f analytical pieces and
investment and adjustment lending operations in human development, including social protection.
Sustained involvement in those issues since the economic crisis in 1998/99 permitted the GOC and the
Bank to develop a deep and common understanding o f issues affecting the efficiency and effectiveness o f
social spending.

The TAL builds on the foundations o f previous Bank-supported sector work and lending programs,
especially the SECAL' and the PLaRSSAL,2 and expands on this work through strengthening support for
the implementation o f their ambitious reform programs. This TAL would, however, address only a
limitednumber o f activities, complementing actions funded by a PHRD grant for the preparation of the
PLaRSSAL I1(effective April 15, 2004) and supplementing the current assistance provided to the GOC
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Bank-IDB collaboration on social and labor reform
issues in Colombia has been extensive.

The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Executive Directors on January 9, 2003,
gives highpriority to the reforms supported by the PLaRSSAL and TAL operations; the proposed project
fits very well with the CAS since it would provide critical support to the implementation of the discussed
reforms. Inparticular, technical assistance i s necessary to craft more adequate regulation o f the new laws,
design appropriate implementation instruments, develop detailed operational procedures and information
systems, and build institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate the results o f the various reforms. If
successful, the TAL would contribute to the CAS objective o f poverty reduction through increased
employment, improved education and training, and more effective social protection.

3. Higher level objectives to which the Project contributes

The TAL operation will contribute to achieving two higher-level GOC objectives supported by the CAS.
The first i s buildingquality government. The TAL contributes to the development o f quality government
by supporting institutional strengthening to enable reforms that seek to promote the transparency, social
accountability, coordination, and rationalization o f key social programs and institutions. These include
the Ministryo f Education (MEN), the MSP, the Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF), and the
National Training Institute (SENA).        In addition, the operation will expand the participation of
Colombia's citizens and the ability o f beneficiaries to make choices and informed decisions. Such actions
are expected to reduce inefficiencies and to improve relations between Colombian citizens and their
government. The second higher-level objective that the TAL will support i s improved sharing o f the
fmits o f growth. The labor, education, training, social assistance, and health reforms supported by both
the PLaRSSAL and TAL would enhance the ability o f all people, especially the poor, to share inthe fruits
o f economic growth. Specifically, increased employment, which i s the single most important source o f
income for poor people, would be an important factor for greater equality. It can also be argued that
improved cost-effectiveness and targeting o f the ICBF and SENA programs to low-income people would
reduce welfare inequality.

The CAS did not envision the TAL in its list o f projects. However, during preparation o f PLaRSSAL I,
the Bank and the GOC agreed that a small TAL would be desirable to provide highly selective support to
improve GOC's capacity to implement the PLaRSSAL program and manage it for results.




  Social Sector Adjustment LoanProject (7134-C0), approvedAugust 1,2002.
  PLaRSSAL IapprovedSeptember, 2003, PLaRSSAL I1i s under preparation.


                                                       2

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project uses a TAL to support the PLaRSSAL 11. The TAL is an appropriate instrument for purposes
o f this project because it allows enough time to study, design, test, and implement the reforms supported
by the PLaRSSAL. The Borrower selected the financial terms indicated inthe cover sheet because they
are appropriate to its needs.

2. Programobjectiveand phases
(Not applicable)

3. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators

The project would assist the Department of National Planning (DNP) and the Ministries of Social
Protection (MSP) and Education (MEN) to improve their knowledge, develop effective instruments, and
strengthen their ability to carry out reforms supported by the Programmatic Labor and Social Structural
Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL).          Specifically, the project's main development objectives include the
promotion o f results-based management o f reforms and the strengthening of: (i)MSP's capacity to
implement a coherent social protectionreform that encompasses employment, training, health and social
assistance for the poor and vulnerable; (ii)MEN'Sability to implement education decentralization
reforms mandated by Law 715 more effectively, analyze primary and secondary school integration and
evaluate the school readiness o f 5-year old children; and (iii)      DNP's capacity for institutionalizing
periodic evaluation and monitoring o f national social programs for citizens' oversight and feedback.

Through these objectives, the project would improve the ability o f the Ministries o f Social Protection and
Education and the DNP to monitor, evaluate and manage for results the various reforms for which they
are responsible. Moreover, the expected incorporation o f the knowledge, ideas, and tools developed and
implemented by staff with support from external TAL consultants would significantly contribute to
institutional capacity building.

The key performance indicators o f the project would include completion o f agreed analytical, advisory,
and consensus-building activities in support o f the above-mentioned labor and social reforms (Annex 3).
As an indicator o f capacity building, the Project would also monitor measures actually taken by DNP,
MSP, and MEN to systematically monitor and evaluate their programs and to use the monitoring and
evaluationresults to inform policy and program decisions.

4. Projectcomponents

The loan would finance the analytical, advisory and consensus-building activities o f the following three
project components: technical assistance to the Ministry o f Social Protection (Component l),      technical
assistance to the Ministry o f Education (Component 2) and technical assistance to the DNP (Component
3). These activities include, inter alia, design o f information systems, data collection and analysis, staff
training, expert advice on needed regulations/decrees/policy documents to advance the reforms, piloting
innovative schemes, workshops to disseminate findings and recommendations among public and private
stakeholders, buildingpartnerships with civil society, and adoption o f the new institutionalmechanisms to
be financed under the TAL operation.

Although the size o f the proposed loan i s small due to limited fiscal space, the TAL i s adequate to
complement related activities supported by the Bank and its partners through other operations (see Annex


                                                       3

2 and C.1). Together, the proposed TAL and these other operations would contribute to building the
institutional capacity of the MEN, the MSP and the DNP to develop the labor and social sector reforms
and to manage those programs with the goal o f improving outcomes. The other planned operations
include: (i)the data collection and analytical work that the Bank and IDB are fundinginparallel (e.g. Red
de Apoyo Social (RAS), Sistema de Seleccidn de Benejkiarios (SISBEN) updating, and evaluation
studies); and (ii)the PHRD-supported activities (see Table 2.1, Annex 2) which the TAL would continue
to support. A brief description o f each TAL component follows; details are inAnnex 4.

Component 1: Technical Assistance for MSP (US$l.l million). The Social Protection System, as
envisioned by the MSP, has five key areas that this component would cover: (i)   labor market policies such
as training, wage subsidies, and social assistance to the unemployed; (ii)   social assistance to vulnerable
groups including young children, adolescents and the elderly poor; (iii)    a financial model o f the Social
Protection System (SPS); (iv) regional dimensions o f the SPS; and (v) monitoring and evaluation systems.
Coordination o f all these programs i s an enormous institutional challenge for the MSP, since most of
these programs are run by separate semi/autonomous agencies including the ICBF, SENA, the workers'
family assistance program (Cajas de CompensacidnFamiliar) and other non-governmental institutions.

This first component would provide technical assistance to the MSP to ensure timely, sustained, and
effective implementation o f health, labor, training and social assistance reforms. Specifically, it would
finance the hiring o f consultants who would work with the DNP, the MEN, and the MSP to: (a) develop
the implementation strategies and instruments needed to implement reforms o f the ICBF, SENA, the
Cajas de Compensacidn Familiar and other institutions; (b) undertake diagnostic studies and develop
alternative institutional arrangements for the training and social protectionprograms, including early child
education, programs for adolescent and unskilled youth, and support for the elderly who have no formal
social assistance; (c) develop a system of output-based indicators for monitoring progress in the
achievement o f agreed social protection system targets; and (d) establish an impact evaluation system for
the main social protectionprograms under the MSP and develop household surveys to allow these impact
evaluations. The TAL would complement other GOC and Bank operations in the monitoring and the
evaluation o f the actual results on employment from implementation o f Law 789.

The technical support to the MSP would help it improve coordination between large programs, such as
SENA, the ICBF and Cajas de CompensacidnFamiliar, by establishing working agreements based on the
new division o f responsibilities inwhich the MSP assumes a policy making, coordinationand supervision
role, and by developing the information systems and channels to achieve coordination. The MSP would
develop verification mechanisms by analyzing databases o f program beneficiaries to ensure that all
programs follow targeting criteria established by the MSP.

Finally, the TAL would help the GOC address several intersectoral issues between the MSP and the
MEN. For example, the TAL would help clarify and advance implementation of the new roles of the
MSP and the MEN in the new National Skills Formation System as proscribed in the recent CONPES
d~cument.~In this framework, the MSP assumes the role o f policymaking and certifies training
programs, which was previously done by SENA, and the MEN oversees the technical aspects o f training.
SENA has the responsibility for providing specified training under certain conditions and regulations.

Component 2: TechnicalAssistanceto the MEN(US$450,000). The objective o f this component is to
strengthen the MEN'Scapacity to implement four key reform activities supported by the PLaRSSAL
Program (Annex 4 describes details o f those activities).      The first activity i s implementation o f the
education reform provisions o f Law 715, which transfer resources from the central to departmental and
municipal levels largely on the basis o f enrollment. While this allocation scheme i s a sound approach for

  CONPESNo. 81 from July, 26,2004.


                                                      4

increasing efficiency, improving equity across territorial entities, and promoting rationalization o f the
teaching force, it requires good auditing and control systems to minimize fraud and to ensure the accuracy
o f obtained information. Initial auditing activities have already been carried out successfully in a few
selected municipalities usingresources from the Japanese PHRD Grant and others. The second activity,
to be implemented jointly with the DNP, supports the analysis o f the new revenue sharing system
between the national and local government. Specifically, it reviews the impact on equity, patterns o f
resource utilization, education outputs and utilization o f the teaching force indifferent areas o f Colombia.
The third activity, to be conducted separately for different types o f schools, i s to evaluate the
organizational and pedagogical effects o f the integration o f primary and secondary education in the same
school and to propose actions for improvement. The final activity i s to evaluate the abilities that five year
old children should have in language, mathematics, natural science and civic before beginning the first
grade o f primary education. The aim i s to improve educational policies and programs according to the
development and learningneeds o f those children.

Component 3: Technical Assistance to DNP (US$450,000). The TAL would support the effort o f the
DNP's Public Policy Evaluation Unit (formerly Sinergia) to strengthen citizen monitoring, evaluation,
transparency and social accountability. The project would support, in conjunction with other activities,
the following actions: (a) an evaluation study o f the general participation system (revenue sharing)
including the adequacy o f the instrument and formula used and the results o f their application (this study
would be undertakenjointly with the MEN);4and (b) the continuation o f detailed design, implementation
and institutionalizationo f the social control system that the DNP i s developing based on an adaptation o f
the successful Bogoth, Como Vamos?Program.

The DNP's Public Policy Evaluation Unit has already made significant progress in establishing a system
to monitor progress against targets for most central government institutions and programs covered in the
National Development Plan. It also has taken steps towards the institutionalizationo f a system for impact
evaluation o f major social programs, including carrying out an impact evaluation o f the Red de Apoyo
Social (RAS) or Social Safety Net program, and the achievement o f a consensus in the GOC to include a
requirement for periodic impact evaluation o f major programs in Colombia's National Budget Law. This
component would further advance a culture o f impact evaluation and the ability o f citizens to give
feedback on the performance o f government programs.

From the institutional point o f view, the TAL would permit the DNP's Public Policy Evaluation Unit to
undertake more key evaluation studies and learn from those studies, develop better monitoring and
evaluation instruments, and develop institutional support for impact evaluation.

5. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design

The TAL was preparedand designed withthe following key lessons inmind:

First, human development and social protection issues, particularly considering the Millennium
Development Goals, are multisectoral innature and therefore require a multisectoralapproach.

Second, in addressing multisectoral issues, it i s important to be selective and coherent, and to focus on
highpriority reforms to which the government is fully committed.

Third, emphasizing outputs rather than inputs and processes facilitates monitoring o f progress and
achievement o f results. A focus on key program outcomes permits the inclusion o f many sectors in the
operation, which would be difficult to manage in a series o f operations if the outcomes for each sector

 This studywouldbe co-financedwiththe IDB,whichis providingabout US$1.O million for this study.


                                                      5

were not clearly defined and measurable. This also permits the incorporation o f sectors where reform
efforts are more advancedthan inothers.

Fourth, phasing i s important and process-related activities help to lay the needed groundwork for results-
oriented measures.

Fifth,the value added o f Bank support is greater when the support is part o fa consistent series of lending
operations and when it i s part o f a strong policy dialogue based on a common understanding and high
quality collaborative analyses o f key issues.      A series o f operations, including the social safety net
investment loans, SECAL, PLaRSSAL I,and PLaRSSAL 11,commit the government and the Bank to stay
focused on monitoring progress in outputs o f key reform measures over a longer time period in a
coordinated, formal and systematic way. The agreed set o f outcome indicators, and the evaluation o f
those outcome indicators with the beginning o f each new operation, allows for new strategies to be
implemented when the previous strategies did not return the expected results. Constant collaboration
between the GOC, the Bank, and other partners i s crucial to developing the new foundation for health,
education, and social reforms.

Sixth, the success o f a continued series o f multisectoral operations i s mainly due to the ability o f the
various government agencies (DNP,Ministryo f Finance (MHCP), MSP, MENand other line agencies) to
work collaboratively and to respect each other's competencies.             The DNP has played a strong
coordinating role in ensuring that the entities involved are making progress in achieving agreed output
targets and in meeting the triggers. This ensures continuation o f reform efforts over a longer period o f
time and permits detection o f delays or problems that needto be addressed early inthe process.

Recognizingthese lessons, the TAL has been designed to support multisectoral activities, but it i s focused
on high-priority activities needed to facilitate reforms that support human development goals. The project
components and activities were selected by the DNP, the MSP and the MENbased on issues identified
from information and experience with studies and lending operations financed by the Bank and IDB.
Moreover, the project's institutional arrangements are designed so that these ministries have the necessary
autonomy to prepare and implement their respective components efficiently, while at the same time
establishing technical bodies to manage coordination, quality assurance, and accountability required by
Bank norms.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

One alternative was considered that relates to the size o f the loan. Initially, a loan o f about US$5.0
million was discussed. However, due to tight fiscal space, it was decided to keep the loan amount at
US$2.0 million, with other operations filling in and participating agencies improving their coordination.
Another possibility considered was to include, as a condition o f PLaRSSAL 11, a government
commitment allocating an amount to support technical activities to support implementation o f
PLaRSSAL reforms in the national budget. Yet, Bank experience indicates that this approach has not
been effective inthe context o f a single tranche adjustment operation and, hence, was rejected.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

As mentioned, the Bank and the IDBhave been collaborating closely inpromoting labor and social sector
reforms in Colombia since 1998. To illustrate, the two institutions are financing inparallel two ongoing
social protection projects (Familias en Accidn and Empleo en Accidn). The teams have hadjoint policy



                                                       6

dialogues on these reforms with the GOC. The teams also share information and ideas and consult each
other on key issues. While the IDB i s financing an innovative youth training project (Jdvenes en Accidn),
the Bank through its analytical work on public training has pushed for the reform o f SENA that would
facilitate the expanded application o f the principles o f the Jdvenes en Accidn Project. The two institutions
are also co-financing the updating o f SISBEN, Colombia's targeting system, and through this TAL, the
evaluation o f Law 715. Looking forward, the GOC has asked the two institutions to work together on
various social protection issues that the TAL would support. Finally, the TAL complements various
studies initiated under the PHRD Grant. Annex 2 provides additional information.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Accounting and jinancial management system. Project financial management processes would be
handled by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) currently managing the IDB-financed Health Sector
Reform Project (US$38.0 million) at the MSP. The PIU consists o f ten people. The financial team
includes a Financial and Administrative Coordinator, a Financial Consultant and an Accountant. The role
o f the latter two officials would be primarily to review and gather information prepared in the MSP for
Component 1 and in the MEN and the DNP for Components 2 and 3. They would be responsible for
maintaining project-specific records and managing project-specific processes such as, the preparation o f
the consolidated financial reports, disbursement requests, tracking project funds, requesting and
coordinating the financial audits with the Contraloria, and providing operational guidance to executing
entities in charge o f implementation o f project activities. Project accounting responsibilities would be
handled in each o f the executing entities (MEN, DNP, and MSP). The accounting o f the DNP and the
MSP would be based on information received from the UNDP and FONADE. The consolidation process
and reporting will be managed in Excel by the PIU at MSP. Financial management (FM) issues are
discussed inmore detail inAnnex 7.

Auditing arrangements. The financial audit for the project expenditures will be carried out inaccordance
with Terms o f Reference prepared according to the audit policy o f the Bank in effect since July 1, 2003.
The Terms o f Reference and the appointment o f the auditor are the responsibilityo f the MSP.

For the project, a separate financial audit report will be required to be submitted for every year o f project
implementation. The Contraloria i s the auditor for the IDB project. The 2003 audit report for this on-
going IDB project has been completed. The report stated an unqualified audit report and the intemal
control issues included were not significant. As required by local regulations, the same auditor will be
appointed for the new operation.

Disbursement arrangements. Assuming that an agreement i s reached between the Bank and the
Government on Special Account (SA) issues across various projects, an SA will be established for the
MENand MSP components. The DNPcomponent is expected to involve only direct payments to UNDP
(these do not pass through the Special Account).

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomes/results

Table 3a and 3b in Annex 3 present the results indicators by component. The PCU and the Technical
Committee (Annex 6) would have responsibility for collecting and reporting M&E data, with
participatingagencies providing necessary data, as stipulated inthe Operational Manual.




                                                       7

4. Sustainability

The TAL i s one o f a series o f collaborative operations between the GOC and the Bank. Experience with
these operations clearly indicates high and sustained GOC commitment towards social reforms. These
reforms are being further advanced by the PLaRSSAL 11, and their implementation i s expected to be
facilitated by the TAL. All the activities financed by the TAL are fully owned by the GOC and are
consistent with its reform agenda, which i s currently being implemented. The results o f the labor and
social reform programs and the capacity-building activities supported by the TAL are expected to be
sustainable.

5. Critical risks and possiblecontroversialaspects

                   Risk                                  Risk mitigationmeasures                     Risk rating (*) with
                                                                                                         mitigation
Risksto Projectdevelopment
objective
Underutilization of analytical outputs in
the actual design and implementation o f
reforms




Risks to component results

Lack o f fiscal space                     Inaddition to ensuring the GOC's full ownership ofthe               S
                                          TAL and the reforms it supports, theproject cost i s
                                          limitedto an amount that the DNP andthe Ministryof
                                          Finance feel comfortable with.
Lack o f coherence due to complexity of   A signed Inter-Institutional Agreement (Annex 6) would
multisectoral activities, involving       govem the responsibilities and commitments o f the PCU              S
several ministries and autonomous         and the participating agencies to facilitate coordination,
agencies                                  reporting and oversight o f TAL activities and their
                                          completion. This agreement would balance the need for
                                          central coordination and the desirability o f giving
                                          participating implementingunits autonomy.
Delays due to bureaucratic controls in Draft terms o f reference and a Project Implementation
the flow of funds andprocurement          Plan (PIP) for various studies and other technical
                                          assistance activities are beingprepared and final                   S
                                          versions will be ready by loan effectiveness. Moreover,
                                          a Special Account would be established so that
                                          ministries in charge o f reform implementation have
                                          timely access to Project funds.
Overall risk rating                                                                                           S
(*) Riskrating: H(high),S (substantial)

6. Loanconditions and covenants

Conditions o f effectiveness

     (a) that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect;
     (b) that the PCU has been established and properly staffed as set forth in Section 3.4(b) o f the Loan
           Agreement; and


                                                            8

    Disbursements conditions

    (c) that the FONADE Agreement and the UNDP Agreement have been entered into by the parties
        thereto, for disbursement o f expenditures under category 1 and category 3 o f the loan agreement
        respectively.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic andfinancialanalyses

For a cost o f US$2.0 million, the benefits from the TAL are expected to be substantial. The benefits
would consist of: (a) improved efficiency and equity inthe use o f public resources inbasic and secondary
education, training and employment, health, and social protection; and (b) welfare gains from better
implementation o f PLaRSSAL-supported reform o f labor and social sector regulations. The project
would achieve these benefits through: (i)better knowledge, analytical instruments and consensus-
building;(ii)  increased capabilities o f the DNP, the MSP and the MENto analyze, monitor, evaluate, and
manage their reform programs; and (iii)     advances in citizens' oversight and feedback. In summary, it i s
likely that the TAL would bring about substantial economic gains from greater transparency, social
accountability, coordination and rationalization o f major labor and social programs and institutions.

2. Technical

The project i s technically well designed; and a Technical Committee (Annex 6) consisting o f
representatives from the DNP, the MSP and the MEN would be organized to review the quality and
timeliness o f the TAL outputs.

3. Fiduciary

Financial management issues
An assessment of the central PIU's (inMSP) institutionalcapacity for financial management was carried
out, which concluded that the organization o f the unit was adequate and satisfied the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements. Two specific actions were recommended to further strengthen PIU
management capacity: (a) coordination meeting(s) among the executing entities' financial teams to
determine and agree on detailed operational procedures; and (b) completion o f the project's Operational
Manual detailing procedures and requirements for the project accounting system, internal controls,
planning, budgeting, financial reporting system, auditing, disbursement and use o f the international
agency. On-site reviews o f the FM arrangements for the DNP and the MEN components will be carried
out prior to loan effectiveness, although the MEN arrangements are considered to be generally adequate,
considering its experience with the Bank-financedRural EducationProject.

4. Social

The TAL does not have any negative social impact. On the contrary, it i s expected to contribute to
greater social accountability, citizen's participation, and development results.

5. Environment

The project does not have any environmental impact. It i s rated as Category C.



                                                        9

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                    Yes                No
~




  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                        [I                [XI
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                    [I                [XI
  Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                        [I                [X  I
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)
                                                                                  [I
                                                                                  [I                    I
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                               [[XXI
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                             [I                  XI
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                             [I                [[XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     [I                  XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                        [I                [ XI
  Projectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                               [I                [XI

7. Policy exceptions and readiness

There arenopolicy exceptions,the project.is ready for implementation.




* By supporting theproposed Project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thePna1determination of theparties '
claims on the disputed areas.



                                                       10

                              Annex 1: Country and Sector Background

1. Since its economic crisis at the close o f the 20' Century, Colombia i s again achieving economic and
social progress. With economic growth over 3 percent annually and a decline in the unemployment rate
by 3 percentage points to 14 percent, poverty rates have begunto decline for the first time inseven years
and security has improved, as indicated by a decrease in the number o f kidnappings and the increase in
the presence o f government forces inthe more violent regions o f the country.

2. However, difficult challenges remain. Colombia continues to suffer from highlevels o f poverty and
unemployment. Many children remain vulnerable to illness and, while substantial resources are spent on
health, a high proportion o f families still do not have adequate protection against financial losses from
illness nor access to good quality basic health care services. Moreover, Colombia continues to lag behind
other competitor countries in terms o f the level and quality o f education and training, undermining its
prospects for greater long-term competitiveness and growth. Complicating the situation i s the violent
conflict that continues to consume a large portion o f the budget and leads to social strife, by displacing
thousands o f citizens from their homes and increasing the burden on the country's still inadequate social
protection system.

3. This annex briefly presents the key labor and social challenges facing Colombia and the PLaRSSAL-
supported reform agenda. For additional details, the reader i s referred to the PLaRSSAL I1Program
Document (PD).

A. Labor and TrainingReform

4. Unemployment rates are falling, but still remain high. Rates fell from 15.7 percent in 2002 to 14
percent by 2003 and the average employment rate increased from 52.6 to 53.3 percent over the same
period. To address the unemployment problem and its negative welfare effect, the Government i s focused
on decreasing barriers to hiring new workers, increasing social protection o f workers, and improving
employment opportunities inthe short and long runfor hard-to-employ groups.

5. This strategy i s being pursued through: the Labor Reform Law (789/02) approved in December 2002,
labor market programs, and innovative policies and programs to improve national training, particularly
the National Training Institute (SENA).      The Labor Reform Law is breaking new ground by giving
incentives for employers to increase employment through the reduction of: (i)      non-wage labor costs to
employers; and (ii)  wage labor costs to employers. To protect the unemployed, the Law provides for the
creation o f an unemployment insurance program. Thirty five percent o f these benefits would be targeted
to unemployed informal sector workers - defined as not having had a previous affiliation to a Worker's
Family Assistance Funds (CCF) and being registered in the SENA unemployment database. Also, the
Law 789 obliges SENA to devote at least 25 percent o f its resources to train the unemployed.

6. Regarding on-the-job training, the GOC i s enhancing the targeting o f Colombia's training programs
and i s working to improve the efficiency o f SENA. Recognizingthe special circumstances o f youth, two
initiatives are underway: (i)implementation o f the reform o f the apprenticeship program; and (ii)
institutionalization o f Jdvenes en Accibn, a program providing a training grant to poor young adults to
participate in courses and apprenticeships provided by competing private firms. Moreover, the GOC has
decided to develop a more efficient and effective national skills formation system by establishing a
competitive process and level playing field among the public and private providers in the use o f the
SENA training fund. To this effect, measures are underway to separate responsibilities in the provision,




                                                     11

financing, regulation, and accreditation o f training services. Inthe meantime, SENA i s making efforts to
increase the efficiency o f its services by downsizing staff and making their contracts more flexible.

7. Remaining Challenges. To continue the reform process, the Government plans to implement the
regulations o f L a w 789, principally those dealing with the apprenticeship program, unemployment
insurance, and incentives to employers to hire hard-to-employ workers. Interms o f SENA, the GOC will
embark on the challenging path o f designing and implementing the Comprehensive Job Training System,
beginning with National Council o f Economic and Social Policy (COMES) document 81.                    The
development o f information systems will be a key step inthis process.

B. Social RiskManagement System Development

8. The GOC has been addressing a diverse set o f social protection programs that emerged in an ad hoc
manner, leading to a duplication o f programs, poor targeting o f services, competing incentives, and
general inefficiency. The Uribe administration, recognizing the desirability o f a more integrated and
comprehensive approach to social protection -an issue highlighted in the Bank's Securing our Future
and Colombia Social Safety Net reports -set out to implement a comprehensive social risk management
system. The strategy, process, and institutionalarrangements are currently under development.

9. There have been several significant advances. First, the Ministry o f Social Protection (MSP) was
established in February 2003, through the merger o f the Ministries o f Labor and Health, as the
institutional backbone o f Colombia's evolving social risk management system. The MSP i s charged with
consolidation o f the existing social protection programs by designing coordinated strategies and policies
through public health, early childhood development, skills training, unemployment insurance, pension,
and other labor-related initiatives. The MSP will oversee a variety o f previously uncoordinated agencies
that provide the bulk o f social assistance and insurance protection in Colombia, including the Colombian
Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF), SENA, and CCF. This effort i s expected to increase efficiency by
eliminating duplication o f functions and defining an appropriate division o f labor. Currently, the MSP i s
developing its mission, strategy, and operating procedures, while bringing in line the various programs
and institutions for which it i s responsible.

10. In the meantime, a renewed effort to target the poor populations has emerged with the nationwide
implementation o f the Sistema de Seleccidn de Beneficiarios (System o f Beneficiaries Selection,
SISBEN) surveys to update municipal databases (started in 2003). This effort is expected to make the
SISBEN Index significantly more accurate as a poverty status indicator and to improve its administration,
auditing, and regulatory framework. Sanctions for false information and mismanagement o f the system
are being contemplated.

11. Remaining Challenges. The institutional reform i s proceeding well, but it faces significant
challenges over the next several years that will require skilled leadership and strong technical inputs to
continue building the umbrella ministry and redefining the role o f each o f the semi-autonomous
institutions. The political challenges will require dedication from all actors to continue defining the
strategy and its implementation. The relationship between the Ministry o f Social Protection and its
autonomous departments - SENA, ICBF, and CCF - i s still being defined, but efforts thus far by the MSP
to define the strategy o f each department in relation to the Ministry, have been successful. In addition,
the completiono f the new SISBEN i s crucial for improving targeting o f MSP programs; ifthis i s not done
well, there will continue to be low coverage o f social programs for the most needy groups.




                                                      12

C. Early ChildDevelopment ICBF          -
12. The GOC needs to ensure that ICBF resources are efficiently and equitably used and are well aligned
with the goal o f establishing a well-targeted and efficient social protection system. The ICBF serves,
among others, one o f the most vulnerable groups in Colombia -children younger than age seven from
poor families -but structural problems with the ICBF require deep program reforms. In 2002, ICBF
programs benefited nearly one million children - 85 percent o f whom attended community childcare
centers (Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar, HCB) -and distributedfood supplements to 2.3 million
children on a regular basis. The impressive coverage rates mask the reality that: (i)targeting o f ICBF
programs to poor families decreased after 1991, although this i s now being re~ersed;~ ten        (ii) percent
fewer children received services in 2002 than in 1998; and (iii)      the quality o f inputs, and thus the quality
o f services, was considered to be low until 1999.

13.    ICBF i s undertaking three noteworthy measures. First, it has established quantitative targets
increasing the share o f ICBF expenditures going to poor children. Second, it will undertake an impact
evaluation o f its two major assistance and prevention programs: Desayunos Infantiles (children's
breakfasts) and Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar (Community Day Care). Third, based on the results
o f the evaluation, the Institute will focus the use o f its resources on strategic, highvalue-added, and pro-
poor programs. It i s noteworthy that the ICBF has decided that its nutrition programs for under seven
year olds will be targeted to poor children.

14. Remaining Challenges. The ICBF and the MSP face the challenging task o f reorganizing the
Institute's programs to improve and focus its services. Inthe meantime, it needs to fully and adequately
implement the targeting strategy to shift its attention to the poorest children immediately. Also, with the
new SISBEN, the ICBF will undergo the task o f reallocating services to those eligible families. The MSP
i s supporting the ICBF in its analysis o f the appropriateness and feasibility o f adopting the Familias en
Accidn Program.6

D. PublicHealth andHealthSystemReform

15. The GOC i s committed to strengthening public health. A national priority goal i s the establishment
o f 95 percent immunization coverage rate o f 0-5 year old children by 2006. A second priority i s the
continued implementationand completion o f the health systemreform, which calls for a transformation o f
the healthcare financing scheme from supply side financing -where public hospitals are directly funded
by the Government -to demand side financing where all individuals hold health insurance and are free
to select their healthcare providers.

16. The GOC has taken several notable measures to protect families against illness and its financial and
welfare consequences.         First, Colombia is regaining its historically high immunization rates by: (i)
protecting the budget for the purchase o f syringes and vaccines to cover the annual immunization targets
and reach the 2006 targets; and (ii)clarifying the institutional roles in vaccination, improving
coordination with the private sector's role, aggressive vaccination campaigns aimed at the municipal
authorities, and effective implementation o f the Familias en Accidn (conditional cash transfers) program.




  Between 1992 and 1997, childcare coverage o f children belonging to urban families in the first income quintile
decreased by 20 percent. World Bank (2002) Colombia Poverty Report. Report No. 24524-CO (World Bank:
Washington, DC).
  Cash transfer program to provide incentives and means to families to enhance the education and nutritional status
of their children, especially during crises.


                                                        13

17. Second, inpassing Law 715 o f 2001, Congress has mandated the re-initiation o f the transformation o f
supply to demand subsidies in 2003. According to the Development Plan for the period between 2002-
2006, the national goal i s to expand insurance coverage among 3.0 million uninsured. The MSP estimates
that the number o f individuals inthe Subsidized Regime i s now 12.9 million as o f June 30, 2003.

18. Third, with respect to the goal o f improving the quality o f health services, the MSP i s implementing a
process for licensing o f health service providers or IPSs (Resolution 1439 o f October 2002, which defined
quality standards by activity or hospital ward). The MSP also approved a regulatory decree to establish
quality standards for ARSs (Subsidized Regime insurers) and has prepared legislation for EPSs
(Contributory Regime insurers), which i s currently being discussed at the level o f the President. The
decrees would establish tougher conditions for EPSs and, particularly, ARSs regarding financial
requirements, capital levels and minimum number o f affiliates, thus eliminating non-viable insurance
entities from the market. The implementation o f the quality assurance system will be complemented by
an improved client-oriented health information system to allow people to make informed choices
regardinginsurers and health care providers.

19. Remaining Challenges. The health reform remains a formidable challenge that will only be
successful through patience and small steps. The immediate challenges are to expand the number o f
affiliates in the Subsidized Regime, thus transferring more power to the consumer and encouraging
competition and choice. This will also bringnon-affiliates among SISBEN 1-3 families into the system.
The transformation o f the service providers to sellers in the health market will require the GOC to
implement the hospital restructuring plan and continue the policy o f "no bailouts."      The licensing and
oversight o f the EPSs, ARSs, and IPSs are fundamental to give consumers the information and assurance
that their insurance and health providers are o f high quality. A vigorous vaccination strategy must
continue ifthe GOC i s to reach the goal o f 95 percent coverage by 2006.

E. EducationReformImplementation

20.    The interaction among education, training and technology i s the key to economic growth, but
Colombia i s unlikely to benefit fully from technological innovations in the global economy due to its
inefficient and under-performing education and training systems. The GOC i s committed to sustained
implementation o f the education reform agenda and has made education development a highpriority. A
key instrument to achieve greater coverage, improved teachers' performance, and higher student learning
i s Law 715 o f the year 2000. This Law enables and encourages measures that reward more efficient use
o f educationresources and more effective teaching.

21. The Law 715 mandated funding formula - based on number o f students rather than number o f
teachers - has started to pressure the territorial entities and their schools to enroll more children or lose
financing. To ensure that the incentive effect i s maintained over time, good information and verification
systems are being developed to support the application o f the distribution formula. Complementing this
effort, the Ministry o f Education (MEN) i s providing technical assistance to territorial Secretaries o f
Educationto develop reliable databases for monitoring and evaluation purposes. The MENconfirms the
enrollment information through cross-checking the data with the National Administrative Department o f
Statistics (DANE) data and special audits when the MEN suspects inaccurate information. During 2003,
10 territorial entities were audited; in three cases, the difference in reported and actual enrollment rates
was above five percent. The MEN plans to implement more systematic monitoring of the territorial
entities and to disseminate information on the discrepancies.

22. The MENhas also entered into agreements with Secretaries o f Educationto help them to restructure
their education systems to increase productivity - concentrating rationalization efforts in 42 territorial
entities in2004.


                                                       14

23, Remaining Challenges. The full implementation of reforms will require organization and political
skill. The new data collection and analysis system requires training o f administrators and audits until a
culture o f evaluation and simple information systems are entrenched. The reorganization o f the education
system (i.e. teachers) i s a sensitive, but necessary process that should be accompanied by performance
incentives.   Also, innovative teaching methods are an effective and high quality means to expand
enrollment for certain groups, but implementation i s not trivial, and needs assistance from the MEN. All
these efforts should be geared toward a continued increase inenrollments and improvement inquality.

F. Transparency and Social Control

24. To improve the functioning o f social programs, the Government i s focused on the creation of
scientific information on the quality o f publicly-provided services and its review o f and dissemination
through non-governmental channels. This also entails the cultivation o f the "culture o f evaluation,"
where program information i s regularly collected and usedby the public for oversight.

25. Following on the CONPES document on evaluation andperformance management, the GOC plans to
include a stipulation in the Organic Budget Law making periodic impact evaluations o f major social
programs obligatory. Moreover, the National PlanningDepartment (DNP)i s inthe process o f developing
a strategy for the implementation o f this mandate, including an international conference on the
institutionalization o f periodic impact evaluation.

26. To complement the above measures, civil society and the GOC plan to create a modified version o f
the successful Bogotd, Como Vamos? Program to strengthen citizen oversight and monitoring o f national
programs. This i s consistent with the GOC's goal o f promoting social audits, which when carried out by
citizens can be effective instruments against corruption, and improving efficiency, coverage, and quality
o f public service delivery.

27. Remaining Challenges. The institutionalization o f a culture o f evaluation i s a long-term process
requiring a change inpriorities and expectations o f Government and the public. It also requires building
the foundations for a sustainable monitoring and evaluation system, including the creation of institutional
capacity to supervise evaluations and in-house technical capacity to carry out evaluations; the generation
o f adequate databases and information; and the building o f networks, with civil society, to monitor the
process, disseminate findings and establish social control. To lay the groundwork for this, it i s important
to establish a legal basis obligating social Ministries and Departments to undertake such evaluations and
to build a civil constituency that will discuss, check, and disseminate the evaluation results and thus
demand improvements intheir social services.




                                                     15

         Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies



A. BankAdjustment andInvestmentLendingoperations

1. Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL). This ongoing
operation i s a key part o f the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy insupport o f the GOC effort to raise the
rate o f human capital accumulation, expand employment, and strengthen Colombia's social protection
system. The specific reforms supported by the PLaRSSAL Program are summarized in Annex 1. The
TAL supports the implementationo fPLaRSSAL I1reforms.

2. Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL). This loan (approved on August 1, 2002, 7134-CO) firmly
laid the groundwork for the new administration to continue, strengthen, and extend reforms aimed at
increasing the pace o f human capital accumulation and the development o f a more comprehensive and
efficient social protection system. The SECAL Implementation Completion Report' gave a "Satisfactory"
overall performance rating to the program supported by the loan. The PLaRSSAL follows up on many o f
the reforms supported by the SECAL.

3. Education Investment Loans. These operations include the Higher Education-Improving Access
Project, approved on December 23, 2002, the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project
approved on August 19,2003, and the Rural Education Project approved on April 11,2000 (Loan 7012).
The first aims to increase enrollment in higher education. The second intends to reform Cundinamarca's
education system to increase its efficiency, basic education coverage, and quality; it i s hoped that this
would serve as a model o f how a territorial entity can better use its resources and authority under the
amended decentralization law (Law 715).           The Rural Education Project intends to strengthen the
decentralization effort inrural areas.

4. Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loan (FIAL). This ongoing program (Loan
7092) seeks to: promote reforms to relax fiscal rigidities; improve the provision o f public services; and
establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and accountability inpublic expenditure. The FIAL
I1(Loan 7201) reinforces the incentives for efficiency gains in education and increases transparency in
management contracts within the MSP, namely inICBF and SENA.

5. Social Safety Net ( U S ) Investment Loans. The Bank i s currently financing the Human Capital
Protection Project' and the Community Works and Employment P r ~ j e c t . ~The former provides cash
transfers to extremely poor families conditional on their children's enrollment in basic education and
visits to health centers for basic care. The CAS has programmed a follow-up operation for FY05. The
latter i s a workfare program that supports community projects to create opportunities for temporary
employment for the poor unemployed workers. This workforce project now also finances a pilot wage
subsidy program for employers who hire, in addition to their current workforce, poor unemployed
workers.

6. Peace and Development Investment Loan. A recently approved (June 10, 2004) innovative lending
operation that complements the PLaRSSAL i s the Peace and Development Project. This project assists
communities in planning and implementing their own strategies for development in the context o f
violence and conflict. The goal i s to implement an integrated strategy inhighviolence incidence regions

'Report  No. 26004, June 2,2003.
8 LoanNo. 7050-C0, approvedMarch29,2001.
  LoanNo. 7017-C0, approved May 11,2000.


                                                      16

that goes beyond pure assistance for the displaced population, and reduces the vulnerability o f the
population.

B. Complementaritieswith Other Institutions'Operations

7. The GOC closely coordinates Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and World Bank support for
the reform of the social sectors. The Bank and IDB teams continue to have a good working relationship
on labor and social reform issues. Collaboration in the implementation o f the R A S program, financed in
parallel by both banks, remains strong. A single monitoring and evaluation model o f the RAS program i s
being utilized by the GOC and the teams regularly consult each other regarding the GOC's social sector
reform program. In December 2003, the IDB completed a Social Emergency Program (US$1.25 billion)
which focused on: (i)  budget protectiono f key social programs in education, health, and social assistance;
and (ii)social sector efficiency and equity inseveral key programs.

8. Currently, the MSP i s implementing two IDB health loans. The Health Reform Support Program
(Programa deApoyo a la Reforma), which has been under implementation for several years, is supporting
the design and implementation o f an information system for the sector.         Inearly 2004, a Hospital
Restructuring Project was approved (US$72.0 million) to finance the public hospital restructuring
processes to make the network o f public health care facilities more competitive and able to sell their
services to insurers in both the Subsidized and the Contributory Regimes. These investment loans are
supporting activities that are complementary to those the Bank would support on the policy side with the
second phase o f the PLaRSSAL, specifically: the achievement o f immunization rates, the expansion of
the Subsidized Regime, and the licensing and accreditation o f hospitals and clinics.

C. TechnicalAssistance: PHRD versus TAL

The TAL will expand and deepen many o f the technical assistance activities financed by the Japanese
Trust Fundon Policy and HumanResources DevelopmentFund(PHRD) insupport o f the preparation of
PLaRSSAL (see Table 2.1 for examples).




                                                    17

  Table2.1 TAL and Other Technical AssistanceActivities InSupport of PLaRSSALReforms

                                           AAA-0ther          PHRDJapaneseGrant            TAL Project
~~PLARSSAL Objectives
                                             Project
  A. Institutiono f an effective Social ESW on Safety       hitial diagnostic studies of   Zomponent 1.
    Protection System.                  Vets inColombia,    nstitutions, programs,         MSP
                                        RAS Projects.       :argeting instruments.
  B. Greater access ofpoor children     ESW on Safety       Study on targeting o f         Zomponent 1.
     to ICBF programs.                  Nets inColombia,    xograms for small vulnerable   MSP
                                        IDB support for     :hildren.
                                        SISBEN.
  C. Achievement o f at least 95 o f    Support from        Study on factors affecting     (Support from
     immunization (PAI) coverage        PAHO, and IDB       :overage o f PAI.              PAHO, IDB
     (0-5 year olds).                   HealthReform                                       Health Sector
                                        Project.                                           Reform)
  D. Advances inimplementation of       ESW on health,      Study on efficiency, equity    (Support from
     healthreform, expanding            IBDHealth Sector    andquality o f general health  IDBHealth
     insurance for the poor, reducing   Reform.             system.                        Reform
     subsidyto public hospitals, and                                                       Project)
     ensuringquality o f services.
  E. Implementationo flabor and         ESW on Impact o f Study for the design o f the     Component 1.
     training reforms, and improving    SENA and            general training system in     MSP
     social protectiono f workers.      Technical           Colombia.
                                        Training in
                                        SENA,
                                        ESW: Evaluation
                                        of reforms.
                                        Programmatic        Analysis o f consistency o f   Component 2,
     reforms.                           AAA on              results o f achievement tests. MEN
                                        education.          Study o f the audit and
                                                            verification process o f
                                                            submittedenrollment data.
                                        Evaluation o f      Adaptation and pilot testing   Component 3
      social control o f social         R A S programs;     o f Como Vamos concept.        DNP
     programs.                          Review o f World
                                        Bank experience,
                                        U S experience,
                                        other;
                                        International
                                        conference on
                                        institutionalization
                                        o f impact
                                        evaluation.




                                                       18

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring


Table 3a. PerformanceIndicatorsby Component
                PDO                           Outcome Indicators               Use of OutcomeInformation
DNP, MSP, and MENhave the            Advances inthe implementation and     Gauge advances inthe
knowledge, effective instruments,    monitoring/evaluation o f             implementation o f PLaRSSAL
and ability to implement the labor   PLaRSSAL prior actions on labor,      supportedreforms and
and social sector reforms supported  social protection, health, education, monitoring/evaluation after
by the PLaRSSAL.                     and training reforms.                 completion o f the adjustment loan.

                                     Increase innumber o f sociaUlabor
                                     programs under DNP,MSP, and
                                     MENbeing systematically and
                                     rigorously monitored, evaluated and
                                     discussed with the public for
                                     citizens' oversight and feedback-
                                     relative to baseline.
       Intermediate Results               ResultsIndicators for Each            Use of ResultsMonitoring
        One per Component                          Component
ComponentOne:
MSP has strengthened capacity to     Implementation o f the                 *Establishment o f enabling
implement a coherent social          recommendations on the roles o f      regulations and other norms defining
protection reform that encompasses   different concerned agencies (e.g.,   new NTS and guidelines for
employment, training, health and     MSP, MEN, and SENA) basedon            application.
social assistance for the poor and   the guidelines proposed inthe          *Inputs into pilot testing ofNTS and
vulnerable.                          National Training System (NTS)         employment programs.
                                     Report.

                                     Improved designand                     *Report on ways to improve the
                                     implementation o f the wage subsidy    implementation o f wage subsidy and
                                     and unemployment subsidy               unemployment subsidyprograms.
                                     programs.                              *Inputsinto pilot testing for the
                                                                            implementation o f the guidelines
                                                                            proposed to improve the wage and
                                                                            unemployment subsidyprograms.

                                     Integration o f the existing network   *Updated inventory o f institutions
                                     o f service providers to vulnerable    and programs (public and NGO) of
                                     populationwithin the Social            social assistance.
                                     Protection System.

                                     Promotion, at the regional level, o f  *Study o f coverage, effectiveness
                                     an integrated, coherent and            and impact o f social assistance
                                     coordinated public management o f      programs and recommendations for
                                     the National Protection System         improvement.
                                     policies.

                                     Strategy to strengthen the operation,  *Based on inventory and study,
                                     technology and capabilities o f the    issuance o f enabling regulations and
                                     SPS agencies and actors.               guidelines establishing reforms and
                                                                            new assistance programs mandated
                                                                            by the MSP to implement new
                                                                            policies on targeted and integrated
                                                                           programs.



                                                        19

                                      Number ofprograms under the MSP         *Workshops, conferences and short
                                      being systematically monitored,         :ourses that will set standards on the
                                      evaluated and discussed with the        procedures o f social protection
                                      public for citizens' oversight and      policy.
                                      feedback relative to baseline.          *Workshops, short courses and
                                                                              training events that will effectively
                                                                              transfer know-how and innovative
                                                                              approaches to the SPS.
                                                                              *Study to determine: (a) M&E
                                                                              indicators for different institutions
                                                                             and programs under MSP; and (b)
                                                                              baseline data for said indicators.
                                                                             *Inputsfor the construction o fM&E
                                                                              indicators and guidelines to be
                                                                              followed by implementing agencies.
ComponentTwo:
The Ministryo f Education (MEN)       Analysis o f the accuracy o f          *Inputsfor the improvement of
has strengthened capacity to          enrollment data and report on ways      enrollment reports inorder to
implement education                   to improve the quality o f enrollment   maintain the integrity and efficiency
decentralization reforms mandated     data.                                   effect o f the capitation system o f
by Law 715, analyze primary and                                               allocating education transfers
secondary school integration and                                              mandatedby Law 715,
evaluate the school readiness o f 5-
year old children.

                                      Assessment o f the system o f revenue   *Gauge the weaknesses and effects
                                      transfers for education to territorial  o f the implementation o f Law 715
                                      entities under Law 715.                 on the equity and efficiency o f the
                                                                              use o f education transfers by
                                                                              territorial entities; and identification
                                                                              o f remedies.


                                      Study on the administrative and         *Identification o f conditions under
                                      education quality impact o f            which the integration policy may or
                                      regulations mandating integration o f   may not work to help the MEN
                                      primary and secondary schools.          make necessary adjustments to
                                                                              improve effectiveness and
                                                                              efficiency.
                                      Diagnostic study on basic               *Development o fpedagogical
                                      competencies o f children age 5         guidelines for preschool education
                                      entering preschool education in         (not available today).
                                      public schools.


ComponentThree:
The DNP has strengthened capacity     Assessment o f the system o f revenue   *Identify whether remedial measures
for institutionalizing periodic       transfers for health and education to   are needed to strengthen or
evaluation and monitoring o f social  territorial entities under L a w 715.   complement the impact o f Law 715
programs for citizens' oversight and                                          on health and education.
feedback.
                                      Design, pilot testing, and              *Advance the development and
                                      implementation o f a Social Control     institutionalization o f results-based
                                      System (SCS) for Colombia.              management, transparency and
                                                                              social accountability.



                                                         20

e,
>




       s     s
       m
       vi     vi
              m
$      s     s
m      II)
       m      vi
              m
       s      2
      ~




       0
       m      m

      g          N
                 N
      m
s    s
0
In    0
      r-




            .-c

I
     I
    
    Lc
    x




          m
          (u

 Table 3c. AdditionalApplicationsof M&E:Indicatorof ProgressinResultsManagement

         PROGRAMS                      BASELINE                        TARGET VALUES

       Impact Evaluation
      Current evaluations                                      YR1             YR2            YR3
            DNP-MSP
1  Familias en Accidn                  November                         Intermediate   Final evaluation
                                       2004                             evaluation
   Empleo en Accidn                   1E i E t i a t e  IFinal
                                                         evaluation  I




1  Labor Reform (Law 789,2002)        I                 I              1seminar and   I
                                                                        feedback)
   Evaluation o f training system      Follow upto                      Initiated      1 (Completed)
                                       Bank-GOC
                                       study
   Evaluation o f the national                           Initiated                     1 (Completed)
   programs for aging and older
   people
               MEN
   Evaluation o f pre-school                                                           1 (Completed)
   children's abilities and
   competencies
   Workshop to disseminate and                                                         1(Completed)
   get feedback on the study on
   effects on pedagogical
   administration, organization and
   school practices of Institutional
   Integration in different kinds of

               DNP
   Evaluation o f the impact of        None                                            1 (Completed)
   transfers for health and
   education
       Results Monitoring
   Monitoringresults of the            3                 4              4              4
   National Development Plan




                                                         24

                                 Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription


 1. This annex provides details on each o f the three loan components: (a) technical assistance to the
Ministry of Social Protection (Component 1); (b) technical assistance to the Ministry of Education
(Component 2); and (c) technical assistance to the National Planning Department's (DNP) Policy
EvaluationUnit (Component 3).

Component 1: TechnicalAssistance for MSP(US$1.1Million in ProjectCosts).

Objectivesand Outputs of Component

2. The objective o f this component is to strengthen the new Ministry o f Social Protection's (created by
merging the Ministry o f Health and Ministry o f Labor in December 2002) capacity to implement a
coherent social protectionreform that encompasses employment, training, health, and social assistance to
the poor and vulnerable by: (a) improving the functioning o f the labor market through the new labor
reform law, designing and implementing a National Training System (NTS) that i s more responsive to
firms, individuals, needs, and implementationo f selective active labor market policies; (b) improving the
efficiency and impact o f social assistance to certain vulnerable groups including young children,
adolescents and the elderly poor; (c) improving the Social Protection System (SPS) finance structure; (d)
promoting the integrated and coherent public management o f Social Protection System policies, at the
regional level; and (e) designing and implementing a Monitoring and Evaluation system for social
programs and institutions that are under the responsibility o f the MSP. Coordination o f said programs
and institutions i s an enormous institutional challenge for the MSP, as most o f these programs are runby
semi/autonomous agencies like the ICBF (Institute for Family Welfare), SENA (National [Technical]
Training Institute) and the Cajas de Compensacibn Familiar (Worker's Family Assistance Funds).

3. The main outputs o f this component include: the preparation o f new training and active labor market
policies that are better aligned with private sector needs and the needs o f individuals and the preparation
o f regulations and other normative acts to implement such policies; the preparation o f an updated
inventory o f institutions and programs that provide social assistance to vulnerable groups, to improve
program coordination and the impact o f integrated programs; the preparation o f a study o f coverage and
other characteristics o f social assistance programs and recommendations for improvement; and finally,
the introductiono f monitoring and evaluation systems for institutions and programs under the Ministryo f
Social Protection.

4. A number o f key milestones (outputs) would be monitored to gauge progress towards meeting these
goals. They include:

0   Enactment o f Reglamentos and other normative acts to launch and start implementation o f the new
National Training System (NTS), clearly defining responsibilities o f different agencies, including the
MSP, the MEN, SENA, and other executing agencies.

0   After completion of the inventory o f social assistance institutions and programs, development o f a
clearly defined social protection policy reform agenda to improve the alignment, design, effectiveness,
poverty impact and cost o fprograms.

0   Completion o f report on ways to improve the implementationo f the wage subsidy and unemployment
insurance programs.




                                                     25

    Establishment o f legal instruments and technical documents to implement the M&E system for
programs and institutions under the MSP. This includes regulations for providing information, auditing
systemto ensure data quality, survey data to be gathered, and parameters for informationsystems.


0   Establishment of legal instruments and mechanisms to implement the M&E system for programs and
institutions under the MSP. This includes regulations for providing information, auditing system to
ensure data quality, survey data to be gathered, and parameters for information systems.

Main Activities supported by Component

5, This component will provide technical assistance to the MSP to ensure timely, sustained, and effective
implementationof labor, training, social assistance reforms and monitoring and evaluation systems. Most
technical assistance will deepen and begin to implement the studies and strategies developed with PHRD
support, and with assistance recently providedby other donors (e.g., IDBHealth Sector Reform Loan, see
below Table 2.1).

Specifically, it would finance the hiringo f consultants who would work with the MSP to:

0   Undertake diagnostic studies and develop alternative institutional and organizational arrangements for
  a national training system that i s more attuned to private sector needs; and implementation o f active
  labor market policies, including the wage subsidy and unemploymentprograms;

0    Develop the implementation strategies, action plans and instruments needed to reform the programs
   in the ICBF, SENA, Cajas de CompensacidnFamiliar and others in order to improve coordination,
   eliminate duplication and achieve greater program impact;


0    Undertake studies to evaluate the impact o f the SPS financial structure and develop policies for
   improvement;


0    Host workshops, conferences and short courses that will set standards at the regional level for the
  procedures o f a social protection policy that would allow for an integrated and coordinated public
   management o f the Social Protection Systempolicies;


0    Develop a system o f output-based indicators for following up progress in the achievement o f agreed
   social protection system targets; and establish an M&E system for the main social protectionprograms
   under the MSP, including development o f key household surveys for said purpose; and

0    Host workshops, short courses and training events that will effectively transfer know-how and
   innovative approaches to implement the M&E system.




                                                     26

e e e e  a  e  a        e a a a   e a  a




a      e        e  a    e




a       e               e      e

....
     0 .  e . . .    0 .    . . e .




                            e         e




                                     e

Component2: TechnicalAssistance to MEN(US$450,000 in ProjectCosts).

Objectives and Outputs of Component

6. The objective of this component i s to strengthen the MEN'Scapacity to implement five key reform
activities supported by the PLaRSSAL Program.             The first is to implement the education reform
provisions o f Law 715, which transfers resources from the central government to departmental and
municipal levels largely on the basis o f enrollment. While this allocation scheme i s a sound approach to
improve efficiency and equity across territorial entities and to promote rationalization o f the teaching
force, it requires highquality auditing and control systems to minimize fraud and manipulationand ensure
the veracity o f the information. The second i s to review the socio/economic impact, equity, fiscal costs
and fiscal effort o f territorial entities under the new revenue sharing system, to be done jointly with the
DNP (Component 3). The third i s to improve the education delivery system, which mandated integration
o f primary and secondary schools to improve the transition from primary to secondary education for
students attending public schools. The fourth i s to improve education coverage rates by improving pre-
school education (Grade 0) for children age five years. The final i s to improve the MEN'Scapacity to
implement the education reform provision o f Law 715 by strengthening its capacity to monitor, evaluate
and manage for results.

7.   The main results o f this component include the accomplishment of a set o f activities: (a) the
completiono f audits o f enrollment data for selected departments and municipalities and the preparation o f
a list o f auditing requirements and protocols to be followed for continuous audits o f data; (b) the
completion o f reports on the evaluation o f the fiscal transfer system for education (jointly with DNP); (c)
the completion o f diagnostic study to improve management and quality o f integrated schools; and (d)
completion o f the report on the basic competencies children age five have before entering primary school
with recommendations for improvement to reduce repetitionand drop/outs at this level.

8. A number o f key outputshse milestones would be monitored to gauge the progress towards meeting
the proposedinstitutional strengthening goals. They include (details are inTable 4.2):

         0   Upon completing above-mentioned audit reports (item a above), development o f detailed
         guidelines for improved data collection, verification practices by departments and municipalities,
         and establishment o f penalties for non-compliance with norms and procedures.

         0   Upon completion o f reports (item b above), development o f proposals, if recommended, for
         improvedtransfer system inthe education sector, to be done jointly with DNP.

         0   Upon completion o f study (item c above), development o f policies and guidelinesto improve
         implementationo f the school integration initiative to improve school management and quality.

         0   Upon completion o f report (item d above), preparation o f detailed guidelines and normative
         acts to improve pre-school education (Grade 0) in schools nationally.

Main Activities supported by Component

This project component will finance the following four key activities:

                  Audit study o f the current process for collecting and verifying enrollment and other data
             used to calculate the amount o f education transfers to territories, to detect flaws in the
             process, and to take corrective actions. Based on this study, development o f a more adequate



                                                       29

     system for data audits, safeguard procedures, and penalty schemes against fraud and
    manipulation;

    Evaluation study o f the socioeconomic impact, equity, efficiency, and fiscal costs o f the new
transfer system for education. This will permit the development o f policies and implementation
strategies to ensure that the decentralization reform actually leads to, among other things, school
empowerment and motivation for quality improvements.                  This would be undertaken in
coordination with the evaluation o f the transfer system in Law 715. The MEN and the DNP
would examine the impact o f the new allocation scheme on pattems o f resource utilization,
education outputs by territorial entities, and utilization o f the teaching force (see Component 3);

    Evaluation study o f the current system which mandates integrating primary and secondary
education in the same school. Separate primary and secondary schools have been identified as a
factor for reduced rates of transition o f students from primary to secondary education. The MEN
mandated integration o f schools but very little i s known about the implementation o f the scheme
and whether it has had an effect on child performance. The study would be based on a sample o f
schools in selected municipalities and would use student achievement tests; and

    Evaluation study o f the basic competencies o f pre-school children. This study, which would
be based on test results o f a sample o f small children, is expected to provide specific
recommendations to improve curriculum and other education aspects to reduce the highrepetition
and drop-out rates o f Grade 0 students.




                                               30

                       n
                      3
                     z2
                      3




e . . . .     e        e . .    a a a e a




                                                  3
                                                  m




e    .      a    a  m  e        a            e




a         a            a        e            e

Component3: TechnicalAssistance to DNP (US$450,000 in ProjectCosts).

Objectives and Outputs of Component

1. The objective of this component is to strengthen DNP's capacity for institutionalizing periodic
evaluation and monitoring o f social programs for citizens' oversight and feedback. First, it will finance a
systematic study o f the current revenue sharing systemmandated by Law 715 o f 2001 for early detection
o f its impact on the patterns o f education and health spending o f territorial entities in terms o f equity,
efficiency and their fiscal effort. The findings o f the study would be usedto determine whether and what
remedial actions are needed. Second, this component would finance the continued implementation o f a
Social Control System (SCS) for the national government, modeled after the Bogotd Como Vamos
experience and enhanced with international experience on the subject. This activity complements and
further strengthens DNP's Public Policy EvaluationUnit, which has already made significant progress in:
(a) establishing a system to monitor progress against set targets for most central government institutions
and programs covered in the National Development Plan; and (b) taking steps towards the
institutionalization o f a system for impact evaluation o f major social programs, starting with the impact
evaluation o f the Red deApoyo Social (RAS) programs, and forging a consensus in the GOC to include a
requirement for periodic impact evaluation o f major programs in the Organic Budget Law. As with the
other components, the SCS activities would follow up on studies and pilot tests supported by the PHRD,
the PLaRSSAL 11,and other donors (Table 2.1.).

2. The main results o f this component include: (a) the completion o f the revenue-sharing system study
with recommendations for improvements and remedial measures; and (b) the continued pilot testing and
rolling-out o f the national SCS being designedby the DNF'.

3. A number o f key outputs/use milestones would be monitored to gauge the progress towards meeting
the proposedinstitutional strengthening goals (see Table 4.3 below for details).


Main Activities supported by Component

Inaccordance with the above objectives, this component would support the following activities:

      0  Evaluation study o f the general participation system (revenue sharing) regarding the adequacy o f
         the instrument and formula used, its impact on the patterns o f education and health expenditures,
         and neededremedial measures ( with the MEN,Component 2).
      0  Detailed design, implementationand institutionalizationo f a Social Control System, based on the
         successful experience o f the Bogotd Como Vamos Program and enriched by the experience of
         other countries (e.g., the Citizen Report Cards of India, and other experiences in Indonesia, the
         Philippines and Brazil).




                                                       32

           3
          zs
           3




n
m
Y
9E
0
a
E
%
0

En  ....   . . . .
0
Y
W
0
f
Y                     M
.I
m
m                     M
4
I
a
V
.I
s
.E,
;
    . . .
Y
..

0



P
9B8
m
1

P
h
m
*
.I
W   .      . .
.I
Y

.I
Y
4as
a
Y
6
m

a
W
I
9
H

                                   Annex 5: Project Costs



Table 1: Project Costs

             Project Cost By Componentand/or Activity                   Total
                                                                      US $million
             Component 1. TechnicalAssistanceto MSP
             1.A. Training and active labor market policies            172,800




                                                               Total 1 .    .

                                                        Front-endFee 1    0
                                          TotalFinancingRequired       2,000,000




                                               34

*Includes consultants for the different studies, consultants for the Central Project Coordination Unit at MSP;
training includes workshops and seminars to disseminate studies (done by individual consultants or firms).
Operational costs means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by Borrower in connection with the carrying out
o f component 1 and with the daily operation o f the PCU, including office utilities supplies, materials andreasonable
within city transportation costs, which expenditures would not have beenincurredabsent the project.




                                                        35

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements



1.       Implementationperiod

The project i s expected to be implemented over a three-period, with a completion date o f June 30, 2007
and a closing date o f December 29,2007.

2.       BorrowerandImplementationAgencies for the TechnicalAssistance Project

The Borrower would be the Republic o f Colombia. The implementation agencies would be the Ministry
o f Social Protection (Component l), Ministryo f Education (Component 2) and the National Planning
                                        the
Department (Component 3). The MSP would house the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for operations
with responsibilities agreed upon by the other project participants (see below). The responsibilities and
obligations o f the PCU and the participating units would be defined by a signed Inter-Institutional
Agreement and stipulated in the Operational Manual.             A TAL Technical Committee consisting o f
representatives from each participating unit would be organized to review the progress and quality of the
analytical work supported by the project. The Operational Manual will contain specific provisions on
detailed arrangements for the carrying out the project, including: (i)   the Inter-Institutional Agreement; (ii)
guidelines for the preparation o f Annual Action Plans; and (iii)   performance indicators.

3.       ProjectManagement

The TAL Project would not be managed by a separate specially created Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). Instead, the project would be managed and implemented by the existing PrUs for other Bank or
IDBProjects inthe Ministry o f Social Protection (Component l), Ministryof Education (Component
                                                                        the
2) and the National Planning Department (Component 3). Because the MSP has the largest share o f the
project, it would serve as the PCU for communications with the Bank. Currently, the MSP i s managing
two IDB loans, the Health Sector Reform Project and the Hospital Restructuring Project. The PIU for
these projects would manage Component 1 and would also be the PCU for the TAL operations.
Similarly, the PIU o f the Bank's Rural Education Project in the Ministry o f Education would manage
Component 2, and finally the implementation unit o f the IDB Project, Programa Sectorial de Reforma
Social at the DNP would manage Component 3 o fthe TAL Project.

Technical Team. The project would be executed by the technical staff o f the Technical Vice-Ministry o f
Social Protection, the Planning Office o f the Ministry o f Education and the Public Evaluation Unit
(Sinergia) o f DNP. Each unit would implement its corresponding component and would be in charge of:
(i)developing Terms ofReference for consultants; (ii)           helping select consultants for analytical and
advisory work to be financed by the TAL; (iii)evaluating and approving work; and (iv) developing
methodologies to mainstream the results of such work. The technical coordination job for the whole
project would be the responsibility o f the TAL Technical Committee formed by the Vice-Minister o f
Social Protection, the Director o f Planning o f MENand the Director o f the DNP's Public Evaluation Unit
with the support of DNP's Social Development Division. The Committee would coordinate the technical
activities o f the project, ensuring the solidity o f their content and their consistency with the objectives o f
the project.

Operations Team. The head o f the PCU (the Director o f the PIU at the MSP) would be supported by an
Operations Team and would be responsible for: (a) overall planning and supervision o f the project; (b)
verifying that the operational procedures, as established in the Loan Agreement, are being complied with;
(c) administering project activities, including agreements, and oversight o f contracts and procurement; (d)


                                                        36

preparing reports on financial performance and disbursement; (e) tracking project funds; (0 arranging for
the Contraloria to do independent financial audits; (g) providing operational guidance to the units in
charge o f implementation o f project activities; (h) supervising compliance with these guidelines; and (i)
preparing progress reports on the project (including technical and operational activities, and compliance
with operational guidelines) and submitting these to the World Bank every four months. To accomplish
the requirements o f the project described above, the PCU will be staffed by MSP officials and will be
headed by a Project Coordinator and assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including
a procurement officer and a financial and administrative office).

4.     ImplementationStrategy

Implementation of Components. The project will support the following implementationmechanisms:

    0   Contracts following the World Bank guidelines (suppliers and consultants). Most o f the
       US$2.0 million allocated to the technical components will be used to contract local andor
       international consultants (firms or individuals) for analytical and advisory work. The project will
       also finance training/workshops and operational costs such as expenditures for materials, utilities
       and rentals.

Disbursements. Disbursement arrangements for all components will be determined in the upcoming
mission.


Table 1. DisbursementProjection




                                                     37

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements


FinancialManagement

Country Issues. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was delivered to the GOC in
June 2004.     The critical issues affecting projects include the tight fiscal situation, budget and
administrative processes that can cause delays in implementation, and the national chart o f accounts
which extends to sub-national levels o f government. At the project level, the Bank i s currently engaged
with the Govemment in strengthening project financial management by: (i)         improving the operation o f
Special Accounts held in the Central Bank; (ii)decreasing the incentives to employ intemational
cooperation agencies to manage project funds; and (iii)    improving and streamlining the accounting and
reporting requirements agreed in November 2002 between the Bank and the country's Accountant
General and Auditor General's office.

FMAssessment. A visit to the PIU of the existingIDB-financed project at the MSP was carried out on
July 19, 2004. The conclusion was that the FM arrangements currently in place are adequate. An FM
Assessment o f the other executing entities will be carried out before loan effectiveness.

Organization/StafJing. The MSP will hire a Financial and Administrative Coordinator for the project.
The Coordinator will work with the PIU, doing the general coordination o f the project.            Staffing
adjustments in the future will depend on the volume o f project activity and on any adjustments to the
existing systems that may require additional clerical or technical staffkonsultant support.

Written Procedures. The project will follow the Operational Manual that will be approved by the Bank.
The executing agencies have sent a draft o f this document to the Bank.

Accounting and Information Systems. As part o f the FM Assessment, the Bank will review each
implementing entity's accounting and information systems that will be used for each project component.
The current project management system consists o f three subsystems, each with the following functions:

    a) recording o f expenditures for the purpose o f SOE production and FMRproduction (Excel-based);
    b) recordingo fprocurement activities (Excel-based); and
    c) entry o f accounting transactions made ineach executing entity accounting.


The FMAssessment o f the MENand the DNP will confirm whether enhancements should be considered
to provide greater efficiency, control, and avoidance o f some risks.

Financial Management Risk. The FM risk in this project i s considered to be Moderate. Loan size i s
small, and the executing entities have generally good capacity and a good record o f financial management
on other projects.

Funds Flow and Cash Management. Subject to a country-level Special Account arrangement being
agreed between the Government and the Bank, the proposed project will utilize a Special Account
denominated inUSD with a corresponding account inpesos for the components to be implemented by the
MEN and MSP. MEN will manage the pesos received from the Special Account through the budget
process, while MSP and DNP will contract a local financial agency (FONADE) and an international
agency (UNDP) respectively, to administer funds for their respective components. The DNP component
is expected to involve only direct payments to UNDP (which, as mentioned, do not pass through the
Special Account). Disbursement applications for all components will require approval from the central



                                                     38

PIU in MSP, which will also be responsible for the reconciliation o f the Special Account and general
coordination o f disbursement matters.

Financial and Management Reporting. The project will prepare Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
on a quarterly basis for intemal purposes, and inform the Ministry o f Finance (MHCP) o f project
developments. FMRs for each semi-annual periodwill be sent to the Bank within 45 days after the end o f
each such period (i.e., by August 15 and February 15). As part o f the FMAssessment, the Bank informed
the PIUs that Resolution 380 o f 2002 was being reviewed by the national audit and accounting agencies
with the Bank. The Bank would recommend some changes inthese FMRsto simplify them and improve
their use for project monitoring. Part o f these changes would be to allow less frequent reporting to the
Bank for relatively smalVsimple projects such as this TAL.

Preparation o f the project financial reports can also be improvedby addressing information systems issues
(as mentioned above). Finally, financial reports in FMRs will serve as a basis for the annual audit o f
financial statements (see below).

Disbursements

Disbursement Mechanisms and Documentation. Assuming that an agreement i s reached between the
Bank and the Govemment on Special Account (SA) issues across various projects, an SA will be
established for the MENand MSP components, with the DN'Pcomponent expected to involve only direct
payments to UNDP. The authorized allocation for the account will be equal to 10 percent o f the MSP and
MENcomponents, although the initial deposit may be limited to a smaller amount until disbursements
reach a certain level. Disbursements under the project will be made following the Bank's transaction-
baseddisbursement procedures. Direct payment method will be usedfor very large contracts, as needed.

Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for
all expenditures not requiringthe Bank's prior review.

Retroactive Expenditures. Retroactive financing will be allowed for eligible expenditures (expenses
relating to project activities, procured in accordance with agreed project procurement procedures)
incurred within 12 months prior to the Signing o f the Loan. These can be claimed for reimbursement
upon declaration of loan effectiveness. These expenditures will be limited to US$400,000 (20% o f the
loan amount), but are expected to be much less than this amount.


FinancialManagementActionPlan

The most critical actions that need to be carriedout are the completion of the Operational Manual and the
agreement with Contraloria on audit arrangements.           Compliance with these issues along with the
completion o f the FM Assessment for the MEN and DN'P will be confirmed by the Bank before loan
effectiveness.




                                                      39

                           Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements


A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under BRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The general description o f various
items under different expenditure categories are described below.           For each contract to be
financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank Project team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan
will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementationneeds
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works and Goods. Procurement o f goods and civil works contracts is not
expected under this project.

Procurement of non-consulting services.             Contracts below US$50,000 equivalent for
preparation and broadcast o f promotional clips may be procured usingshopping proceduresbased
on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.

Selectionof Consultants.

Firms. Consultant contracts with firms will include diagnostics and other studies; impact and
policy evaluations; data audit services; reviews o f legislation; training and workshops; specialized
technical expertise and studies. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$350,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Consultant assignments o f specific types as agreed previously with the Bank in the Procurement
Plan may be procured with the use o f the following selection methods: (i)    Quality and Cost Based
Selection; (ii)Selection under a Fixed Budget - SFB; (iii)         Least Cost Selection - LCS; (iv)
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications - CQS (for contracts estimated to cost below U S
$200,000 equivalent); and, exceptionally (v) a contract under Single Source Selection - SSS
procedures, has been identified. The SSS will be justified under the circumstances explained in
paragraph 3.9 o f the Consultants' Guidelines.

Individuals.   Individual consultants will be hired to provide technical advisory and project
support services and selected in accordance to Section V o f the Guidelines.

Operations Costs. These costs will include project-related travel expenses, office supplies and
consumables. Costs will be executed usingthe implementingagency's administrative procedures
reviewed and acceptable to the Bank.

B. Assessment of the involvedagencies' capacityto implementprocurement

Project Management Units. The TAL project components will be managed by three already
existing separate PIUs for other Bank or IDB Projects: the MSP, MEN, and DNP will implement
components 1,2 and 3 respectively. The MSP will act as Project Coordination Unit. Procurement
for Component 1 will be executed by the existing PIU that manages Bank-fundedhealth projects;

                                                 40

MSP will hire FONADE, also currently executing one Bank-financed project; and DNP will use
UNDP services. The cost o f FONADEand UNDP services will not be financed under the Loan.

Procurement Assessment of the agencies expected to be conducting procurement activities.
Considering that MENi s currently implementingtwo projects financed by IBRD, a procurement
capacity assessment o f its PCU has not been conducted. Given the non-complex character o f the
procurement operations that FONADE and UNDP are going to execute under this loan and their
experience with Bank-funded projects, it i s also advisable not to conduct a procurement capacity
assessment o f said organizations; it i s recommended to conduct, instead, a session o f procurement
training on Bank's new guidelines for selection o f consultants before implementation starts.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has beenagreed between the Borrower
and the Project Team on August 29, 2004. It will also be available in the project database and
in the Bank's extemal website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out fi-om Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Agency recommended one normal supervision mission
(annually) to visit the field to carry out procurement consultation and post review o f procurement
actions, and one special supervision mission incase of catastrophic events.




                                                  41

                                                                                          Attachment1

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementinvolvinginternationalcompetition.


    (a) List of ConsultingAssignments with short-list of internationalfirms.


      1              2                   3           4              5           h              7

         Ref. No.     Description of     Estimated     Selection     Review      Expected       Comments
                       Assignment          cost         Method       by Bank    Proposals
                                                                     (Prior I   Submission
                                                                      Post)        Date
                     Impact                                                                    The firm is
      TBD*           Evaluation of $430,000           Sole source   Prior       January        to be
                     General                                        review      2005           previously
                     Participation                                                             selected on a
                     System                                                                    competitive
                                                                                               basis under a
                                                                                               process
                                                                                               financed by
                                                                                               IDB
    *Borrower will create the code or alphanumeric IDfor each tender

(b) Consultancyservices estimated to cost above US$350,000 per contract and Single Source selection o f
consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants:Short lists of consultants for services estimated
to cost less than US $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely o f national consultants
inaccordance with the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.




                                                     42

                              Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis


For only US$2.0 million, the benefits from the TAL are expected to be substantial. The benefits would
consist of: (a) improved efficiency and equity in the use o f public resources in basic and secondary
education, training and employment, health and social protection; and (b) welfare gains from better
implementation of PLaRSSAL-supported reforms o f labor and social sector regulations. The project
would achieve said benefits through: (i)  better knowledge, analytical instruments and consensus-building;
(ii) increased capabilities o f the DNP, the MSP and the MENto analyze, monitor, evaluate, and manage
the results of their reform programs; and (iii)advances in citizens' oversight and feedback. Insummary,
it is highly likely that the TAL would bringabout substantial economic gains from greater transparency,
social accountability, coordination, and rationalization o f major labor and social programs and
institutions.




                                                    43

                         Annex 10: ProjectPreparationandSupervision



                                                     Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                          July 1, 2004             July 1,2004
InitialPID to PIC                                  July 1, 2004             July 12,2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                                July 1,2004              July 12,2004
Decisionmeeting                                   July 27,2004              July 27,2004
Appraisal                                         July 27,2004              Aug 28,2004
Negotiations                                     August 16,2004             Aug 27,2004
BoardRVP approval                               November 4,2004
Planned date of effectiveness                    October 6, 2004
Planned date of mid-termreview                  January 15,2005
Planned closing date                           December 29,2007


Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the Project: DNP,MSP, MEN

Bankstaff and consultantswho workedon the Projectincluded:

Name                                                 Title                         Unit
Vicente Paqueo                                  Lead Economist                    LCSHS
Wendy Cunningham                               Senior Economist                   LCSHS
Jeannette Estupinan                    Financial Management Specialist           LCOAA
Mariangeles Sabella                              Legal Counsel                   LEGLA
Juan Carlos Alvarez                              Legal Counsel                   LEGLA
Martha Laverde                              Sr. Education Specialist              LCSHE
Jose M.Martinez                              Procurement Specialist               LCOPR
Harry Patrinos                                 Senior Economist                   LCSHE
Daniel J. Boyce                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist        L C O M
Jairo A. Arboleda                   Sr. Social Development & Civil Society       LCCCO
                                                    Specialist
Maria Luisa Escobar                         LeadHealth Economist                  LCSHH
Mauricio Santamaria                            Senior Economist                   LCSPP
Gladys Lopez-Acevedo                           Senior Economist                   LCSPP
Tarsicio Castaiieda                                Consultant
Martha P. Vargas                                Team Assistant                    LCSHD
Sonia Levere                              Language Program Assistant              LCSHD

Bankfunds expended to date on Projectpreparation:
1. Bankresources: $50,000
2. Trust funds: none
3.   Total: $50,000

EstimatedApprovalandSupervisioncosts:
1. Remainingcosts to approval: $45,000
2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $50,000



                                                 44

                       Annex 11: Documentsin the ProjectFile


1. Draft Operational Manual for the PCUand ImplementingAgencies
2. Procurement Plan for DNP,MEN, and MSP
3. Financial Terms Sheet
4. Program Document for the SecondProgrammatic Labor Reform and Social Structural
    Adjustment Loan
5. Minutes of the Concept Review Meeting for the TAL (June 16,2004)
6. Minutes o f the QER Meetingfor the TAL (July 9, 2004)
7. Memo from Juan David Quintero, QAT Coordinator on Environmental and Social Comments
    (July 21, 2004)
8. Minutesof the Decision Meeting for the TAL (July 27,2004)
9. ISDS - Concept & Appraisal stage
10. PID-Concept & Appraisal stage




                                           45


                                            Colombia
                                       Statement ofIFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                       As ofApril 21,2004



                                                Held                         Disbursed

 FY Approval          Company    Loan    Equity       Quasi   Partic  Loan Equity Quasi  Partic

2002            BCSC                  0      7.00           0    0.00     0  7.00      0  0.00
2002            Bavaria           70.00         0       30.00  145.00  70.00    0  30.00 145.00
1969/1985/1988/ CF del Valle          0      7.44           0    0.00     0  7.44      0  0.00
2001            CHMC                  0      9.68        3.45    0.00     0  4.02   1.00  0.00
2004            CartonesAmerica   22.00         0           0    0.00  18.00    0      0  0.00
1974/2001       CementosCaribe     3.71      9.84           0    9.07  3.71  9.84      0  9.07
1995/1999       Corfinsura        31.53         0       25.00    0.00  6.53     0  25.00   0.00
2002            lnversura             0     15.00           0    0-00      0 15.00     0   0.00
2002            OmimexOil         30.00          0       5.00    0.00  10.70    0   5.00   0.00
I987            PRODESAL              0      0.59           0    0.00      0 0.59      0   0.00
1977/1989/1992/ Promigas           3.13      1.13           0    2.08   3.13 1.13      0   2.08
1994/1995/2002 Promisan               0      0.20           0              0 0.20      0   0.00
2002            Proteccion            0     10.00           0    00.oo
                                                                   .oo     0 10.00     0   0.00
1996            Proyectos             0      0.00           0     0.00     0 0.00      0   0.00
2002            SIG               25.00          0      50.29     0.00 25.00    0   50.29  0.00
1999            Surentina             0      5.10           0     0.00     0 2.50      0   0.00
2001            Tolcemeito         3.33          0          0     7.11  0.00    0       0  0.00




                                             47

                                               Annex 13: Country at a Glance

                                       Colombia at a glance                                                          9f3f03

                                                                 Latin Lower-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America middle-
I                                                   Colombia h Carib. income        Development diamond'
 2002
 Population. mid-year /?n&".c?                           43.7      527    2,411
 GNI per capita /Afla+"t            LLW?                 1.830   3,280    1,390                 Life expectancy
 GNI /At!ac&M         L+Wh!bY"s?                         80.1     1,727   3,352
 Average annual growth. 1996-02                                                                       T
                                                           1.8       1.5     1.0
 Labor force pi?
 Population pi?
                                                           2.6      2.2      1.2    GNI                              Gross
 Most recent estimate (latest gear available. 1996-021                              per                              primary
                                                                                    capita                         nrollment
 Poverty p i ' d p i p d a h h & w n a h d ~ ( # ~
 Urbanpopulation fli'dt&dpr@c?l/                           76        76      49
 Life expectancyat birth [+ea-??                           72        71      69                       I

 Infantmortality /bwIKt?.&wA+f&?                            19       27      30
 Childmalnutritionf l : ' E a r W " & f    f?                7        9       11         Access to improved water source
 Access to an improved water source p'Orpr@ai               91       86      81
 Illiteracy fli'dpr@&htw~5+                                  8        11     13
 Gross primaryenrollment fl:'cd-cdwdvpr@at                 112      130      111
    Male                                                   113       131     111
    Female                                                 112      128      110

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1982   1992     2001    2002
 GDP /CLWM%xq?                                                                       Economic ratios'
                                                  39.0   49.2      82.4    82.2
 Gross domestic inuestmentjGDP                    20.5    16.7     14.9
 Exports of goods and servicesfGDP                 10.9   17.7     19.4                              Trade
 Gross domestic savingsfGDP                        16.3   18.7     15.3
 Gross nationalsauingsfGDP                         13.6   18.4     14.3
 Current account balancefGDP                       -8.4     1.8    -2.2     -2.2
 Interest paymentsfGDP                              1.8    2.6      3.0      2.4
 Total debtfGDP                                   26.4    35.1     44.5
 Total debt seruicefexports                       27.8   38.8      36.1
 Present value of debtfGDP                                   ..    45.6
 Present value of debtfexports                               ..   215.5                          Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02  2001     2002 2002-06
 /MW" W m W
 GDP                                        4.0     2.0     1.4      1.5     0.4
 GDP per capita                             1.9     0.1   -0.3      -0.1     -1.1
 Exports of goods and services             10.1     4.8     4.1


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                   I
 fl:'dmFy                                        1982   1992     2001    2002        Growth of investment and GDP [%

 Agriculture                                       19.3   15.8     13.0              20

 Industry                                          31.8  35.0      29.9               0
   Manufacturing                                   21.8   19.8     16.3             -20
 Services                                         48.9   49.3       57.1           -40
                                                                                                                            I
 Private consumption                              72.8    71.8     63.6                                                     I
 General government consumption                    10.9    9.5      21.1
 Imports of goods and services                     15.2   15.8     19.0                     -      GO1      -GDP


                                               1982-921992-02
 / M q e mdg&q                                                                      Growth of exports and imports [ X I

 Agriculture                                        3.5    -1.4      0.1            "T
 Industry                                           5.0    0.7      -0.1
   Manufacturing                                    4.2    -2.1     .0.8
 Services                                           3.5    3.4       2.1

 Private consumption                                2.9     1.5      1.9                              V
 General government consumption                     4.8    9.6       0.3
 Gross dimestic investment                          1.0   -2.9       9.6
 Imports of goods and services                      2.9     3.1     11.2                 -Export$          -Import$



 Note:2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
 This table was producedfrom the Development Economics central database.
 'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry[inbold]comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwill
    be incomplete.



                                                                 48

    PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1982   1992     2001       2002
    L?"?sfiCpiCes                                                                     Inflation (XI                              I
    pi'&aq&                                                                          25
    Consumer prices                              24.6    25.1       6.5       6.0    20
    Implicit GDPdeflator                         24.8    23.6       7.6       7.0    15
                                                                                     10
     Gcwei-af           &dJ3GP                                                        5
    & ~ d L x 5 ? iwd.k+ec cWfm-wa.7t-y)                                           I  0
    Current revenue                                      13.7      13.3      13.6              4?   48       44   00     01
    Current budget balance                                3.0      -5.0      -3.7
    Overall surplus1deficit                               -1.9     -6.1      -4.6             -ODP        deflator -CPI


    TRADE
                                               1982    1992     2001       2002    I
    (L"?I                                                                            Export and import leuels [US$ mill

 I  Total exports [fob]                         3,264  7,263    12,309     11,903
         Coffee                                 1,562   1,259     764         991  I 20m0   T
         Petroleum                                215   1,396   3,083      3,037     15.000
         Manufactures                             837  2,272    5,606       6,156
   Total imports [cif]                          5,478  6,627    12,834    13,026     10.000
         Food                                     303    450     1,578       1,161
         Fuel and energy                          659    344       189       233      5.000

         Capital goods                          2,048  2,255    4,468      4,528          0
   Export price index [M=A?f?)                      9     63       243                         46  47    4 8   44  00   01   I 2
    Import price index (M=A?f?I                     8     69       209
    Terms of trade [M=A?f??                        115     91       116                          Exports          Imports


    BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1982    1992     2001       2002       Current account balance to GDP I
 ,1 Imports of
    [&mi?a!%m:I
    Exports of goods and services               4,785  9,257    14,932     14.439
 , Resource        goods and services           7,052  8,262    15,840     16,077    '1
 ,1               balance                      -2,267    994      -908     -1,639
    Net income                                  -1,184 -1,852   -2,975     -2,525
    Net current transfers                          171  1,734   2,094       2,335
    Current account balance                    -3,280    876    -1,789     -1,828
    Financingitems [net]                       2,930     450    2,956       1,323
   Changes innet reserves                        350   -1,326    -1,166      505
    Memo--
   Reserves including gold {LWmXhLyl                            10,245     10.649
   Conversion rate [EiZ&&fXfI                    64.1   681.0  2.299.8   2,504.2

   EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
 ' [                                           1982    1992     2001       2002
           L   W    ~    y  ~                                                        Composition of 2001debt [US$ mi
   Total debt outstanding and disbursed        10,306  17,277
 '                                                             36,699
         IBRD                                   1,346   3,195   2,006
         IDA                                       20      13        7                             3738     2006
                                                                                                                  ?
   Total debt service                           1,491  4,008    6,297
         IBRD                                     187    959      365
I        IDA                                         1       1        1
' Composition of net resource flows
         Officialgrants                            12     89        86
         Officialcreditors                       403    -413     1,083
         Private creditors                       856      -12    1,312
         Foreign direct investment               366     729    2,328                            u
         Portfolio equity                           0      0       -43                           24363

   World Bank program
I        Commitments                             738     466      636                A .                             E -6ilatcral
         Disbursements                           277     262      368                IBRD        D-Other             F -Private
         Principal repayments                      93    681      233                -.
                                                                                     B IDA       multilatcral        0 -Short-
         Net flows                                185   -420       135                   I. .r


         Interest payments                         95    278       133
         Net transfers                             90   -698         3

   Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
~                                                                                                                         913103


                                                                49


