Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7260-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Technical Assistance Loan to Support the Second Programmatic Labor Reform 
and Social Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 20, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7260-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2004, between the REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 2004) with the modifications below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive
 or 
coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department; 
 
(c) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(d) “FONADE” 
means 
Fondo Financiero de Proyectos de Desarrollo
,
a
state-owned commercial enterprise, created pursuant to decrees number 2168 of 1992 and 
decree number 2606 of 1998; 
 
(e) 
“FONADE Agreement means the agreement referred to in Section 3.11 
(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Implementing Entity” means either the Borrower’s DNP, or MEN (as 
hereinafter defined), or MSP (as hereinafter defined), and “Implementing Entities” mean 
collectively, the plural therof; 
 
(g) 
“Inter-Institutional Arrangements” means the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Law 715” means the Borrower’s “
Ley por la cual se dictan normas 
orgánicas en materia de recursos y competencias de conformidad con los artículos 151, 
288, 365 y 357 (Acto Legislativo 01 de 2001) de la Constitución Política y se dictan otras 
disposiciones para organizar la prestación de servicios de educación entre otros
”
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 21, 2001; 
 
(i) “MEN” 
means 
Ministerio de Educación
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education; 
 
(j) “MSP” 
means 
Ministerio de Protección Social
,
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Social Protection; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (b) 
of this agreement; 
 
(l) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of 
Project objectives; 
 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
August 29, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(p) 
“UNDP Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.10 (a) 
of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two million 
Dollars ($2,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, upon previous approval by the Bank, for the 
purposes of carrying out Part A and Part B of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
separate special deposit account in its Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank (the Special Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 29, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  Such fee shall be 
payable not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall: 
 
(i) 
through MSP, with the assistance of FONADE (pursuant to the 
FONADE Agreement) carry out Part A of the Project;  
 
(ii) 
through DNP, with the assistance of UNDP (pursuant to the 
UNDP Agreement) carry out Part C of the Project; and  
 
(iii) 
through MEN, carry out Part B of the Project;  
 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, legal and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be 
further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through DNP, MEN and MSP, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through DNP, MEN and MSP, shall issue an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, 
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed 
arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
the Inter-Institutional Arrangements;  
 
(ii) 
guidelines for the preparation of Annual Action Plans; and  
 
(iii) 
the Performance Indicators. 
 
(c) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through MSP, shall operate and maintain, at all 
times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit within MSP with a 
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility of the PCU to coordinate and monitor carrying out of the Project, and to 
consolidate and furnish to the Bank all the information provided by the Implementing 
Entities (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional Arrangements) in order to enable the Borrower 
to comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MSP, shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times 
during Project implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by adequate 
professional and administrative staff (including a procurement officer and  a financial and 
administrative officer), in numbers and with experience and qualifications acceptable to 
the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through the PCU, shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than January 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting 
in year 2006, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an annual action plan, each said plan 
to include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Implementing 
Entities during the calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the 
procurement plan and disbursement plan for each of said Project activities;  
 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan, or cause it to be 
implemented, in accordance with its terms; and  
 
(c) 
carry out the Annual Action Plan for the year 2005, as approved by the 
Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through the Implementing Entities, shall establish written 
arrangements among such Implementing Entities, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, said arrangements to include, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of each Implementing 
Entity to, with respect to its corresponding Part of the Project: (i) provide the necessary 
funds, facilities, services and other resources; (ii) assist in the implementation of the 
corresponding Annual Action Plan and in achieving Borrower compliance with the terms 
of this Agreement; and (iii) follow the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Inter-Institutional Arrangements shall be applied throughout Project 
implementation in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Inter-Institutional 
Arrangements, the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall, not later than thirty days 
after the conclusion of each semester during the implementation of the Project, starting 
for the semester which begins on January and ends on July, 2005, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
with respect to the progress made in carrying out the Project during the semester 
immediately preceding the date of presentation of such report. 
 
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall, not later than March 31 of 
each year of Project implementation, starting in the year 2005, review jointly with the 
Bank the progress made in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives 
of the Project, based on the relevant report referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As part of the annual review to be held not later than June 30 2006, the 
Borrower, through DNP, MEN and MSP, shall carry out with the Bank a Project 
implementation mid-term review of such scope as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.10. (a) For the purposes of providing assistance to the DNP in the 
administration of Project funds (including procurement agent services) with respect to the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower through DNP shall enter into an 
agreement with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the UNDP Agreement), which agreement shall 
include, 
inter alia
,
UNDP’s obligation to maintain, on behalf of DNP, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of Part C of the 
Page  9
-
8
-
Project, in order to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 
4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower, through DNP,  shall exercise its rights and carry 
out its obligations under the UNDP Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
DNP, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, 
terminate or fail to enforce the UNDP Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.11. (a) For the purposes of providing assistance to the MSP in the 
administration of Project funds (including procurement agent services) with respect to the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower through MSP shall enter into an 
agreement with the 
Fondo Financiero de Proyectos de Desarrollo
 (FONADE) under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the FONADE Agreement), which 
agreement shall include, 
inter alia
,
FONADE’s obligation to maintain, on behalf of MSP, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of 
Part A of the Project, in order to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations 
under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
the Borrower, through MSP, shall exercise its rights and carry 
out its obligations under the FONADE Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
MSP, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, 
terminate or fail to enforce the FONADE Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the PCU, with the assistance of the 
Implementing Entities (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional Arrangements), shall establish 
and maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
The Borrower, through the PCU, with the assistance of the Implementing 
Entities (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional Arrangements), shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
PCU, with the assistance of the Implementing Entities (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional 
Arrangements), shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the PCU, 
with the assistance of the Implementing Entities (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional 
Arrangements),, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
UNDP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
UNDP Agreement. 
 
(b) 
FONADE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
FONADE Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; and 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
that the PCU has been established and properly staffed as set forth in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
Section 6.02. The date March 21, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín 
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINHACIENDA 
    (571) 
350-9344 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
     (202) 
477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By  /s/ Alberto Carrasquilla 
 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
 
By  /s/ Cecilia María Vélez 
 
Minister of National Education 
 
By /s/ Diego Palacio Betancourt 
 
Minister of Social Protection 
 
By /s/ Santiago Montenegro 
 
Director of National Planning Department 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
By /s/ Jairo Arboleda 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services and  
1,060,000 
100% 
 
training under Part A of 
 the 
Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants' services and  
450,000 
100% 
 
training under Part B of 
 the 
Project 
 
(3) Consultants’ 
services 
450,000 
100% 
 
and training under Part C of 
 the 
Project 
 
(4) Operating 
Costs 
40,000 
100% 
 
_______ 
 
TOTAL 2,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means the reasonable cost of non-consultant 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training 
activities under the Project, including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, 
rental of facilities and equipment, and training materials; and  
 
(b) 
the term “operating costs” means the non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of Part A of the Project and 
with the daily operation of the PCU, including office utilities, supplies, materials, and 
reasonable transportation costs within the Borrower’s territory, which expenditures would 
not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of  four hundred thousand Dollars ($400,000), may be made in respect of 
Categories 1 through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures within twelve months prior to the date of this 
Agreement (but in no case prior to July 23, 2004); (b) any expenditures under any 
Category in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank has received payment in full 
of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (c) Category 1 unless 
the FONADE Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto; and (d) Category 3 
unless the UNDP Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure (under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower). 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to: (a) assist the Borrower in the carrying out of 
analytical, advisory and consensus building activities within DNP, MEN and MSP to 
promote results-based management; and (b) strengthen DNP, MEN and MSP capacity to 
implement the Borrower’s labor and social reforms. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
MSP Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance (including training) to strengthen MSP’s 
capacity to implement a coherent social protection reform that encompasses employment, 
training, health and social assistance for the poor and vulnerable population. 
 
Part B
:
MEN Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance (including training) to strengthen MEN’s ability 
to implement the education decentralization reforms mandated by Law 715, including, 
inter alia
,
the assessment of the progress on primary and secondary school integration 
and of the school readiness of 5 year old children. 
 
Part C
:
DNP Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance (including training) to strengthen DNP’s 
capacity to continue with the implementation of a civil society based reporting and 
feedback initiative designed to carry out periodic evaluation and monitoring of the 
Borrower’s social assistance programs. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
On September 15, 2015 
50% 
 
On March 15, 2016 
50% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  18
-
17
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions 
of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Services (other than Consultants’ 
Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
Shopping
.
Contracts for the broadcasting of promotional clips estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Shopping 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
Page  20
-
19
-
B: Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis.. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Page  22
-
21
-
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
Page  23
-
22
-
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
