Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB955 
Project Name 
COLOMBIA- TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN to support the 
Second Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural 
Adjustment Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (45%);Health (30%);Primary education 
(15%);Secondary education (10%) 
Project ID 
P088857 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
TBD 
Contact: 
National Planning Department 
Carrera 26 #13-19 
Colombia 
Tel: 571-334-4405 
 
smontenegro@dnp.gov.co 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 10, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 21, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 14, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Colombia (GOC) has initiated many sweeping policy and structural reforms 
over the last few years to improve the performance of the social sector and the functioning of the 
labor market.  These reforms have included the creation of the new Ministry of Social Protection 
(MSP), by merging the Ministries of Health and Labor to oversee and coordinate all social 
protection, health and labor policies, regulations and programs, the implementation of the 
decentralization law of 2000 (Law 715), an amendment of Law 60 of 1993, which modifies the 
transfer formula for education and health resources to departments and municipalities to promote 
efficiency and service quality, and the enactment of the labor reform Law 789 of December 
2002, which seeks to lower the costs of labor and provide more flexibility to labor contracts.   
 
If properly implemented, these reforms are expected to produce significant and sustained 
improvements in the social protection system, better health and education services, more 
effective worker training, and increased employment.  The issue is that Colombia needs technical 
assistance to implement these reforms more effectively.  While the GOC staff is highly 
competent, there may not be sufficient staff to carry out the normal work required by the social 
agencies and to ensure that timely and sustained implementation of those new reforms is carried 
out.  
Page  2
2
During the deliberation of the First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural 
Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL I), the GOC requested and the Bank agreed to the preparation of a 
TAL to support the implementation of the PLaRSSAL reforms.  The Bank is arguably well 
positioned to be involved in the project.  First, the value added of its assistance is high due to its 
technical expertise in the above-mentioned reform areas.  This expertise has been established 
through its high-quality regional and country-level analytical and advisory work.  Second, the 
Bank has developed a close rapport with the GOC and a credible reputation on social and labor 
reform issues through its series of analytical pieces and investment and adjustment lending 
operations in human development and social protection.  Sustained involvement in those issues 
since the economic crisis in 1998, permitted the GOC and the Bank to develop a deep and 
common understanding of issues affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of social spending 
and of the institutions in charge of delivering or financing services.   
 
The TAL builds on the foundations of previous Bank-supported sector work and lending 
programs, especially SECAL
1
and the PRaRSSAL,
2
and improves on their impact through 
strengthened support for implementation of their ambitious reform program.  The project would 
also carry forward activities funded by the PHRD grant for the preparation of PLaRSSA and 
would also complement the current assistance provided to GOC by the IDB, with whom the 
Bank has been closely collaborating on social and labor reform issues.    
 
The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) gives high priority to the reforms supported by 
the PLaRSSAL and TAL operations; the project fits very well with the CAS inasmuch as the 
proposed project would provide critical support to the implementation of said reforms. In 
particular, it is necessary to craft more adequate regulation of the new laws, design appropriate 
implementation instruments and develop detailed operational procedures and information 
systems. If successful in facilitating the implementation of the above-mentioned reforms, the 
TAL would contribute to the CAS objective of poverty reduction through increased employment, 
improved education and training, and better social protection.  
 
2.  Proposed project objective(s) 
 
The Project would assist the Department of National Planning (DNP) and the Ministries of 
Social Protection (MSP) and Education (MEN) to improve their knowledge, develop effective 
instruments, and strengthen their ability to carry out reforms supported by the Programmatic 
Labor and Social Structural Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL).  Specifically, the Project’s main 
development objectives include the strengthening of: (i) MSP’s capacity to implement a coherent 
social protection reform that encompasses employment, training, health and social assistance for 
the poor and vulnerable; (ii) MEN’s ability to better implement education decentralization 
reforms mandated by Law 715; and (iii) DNP’s capacity for institutionalizing periodic evaluation 
and monitoring of social programs for citizens’ oversight and feedback.   
 
Bank support would help the different implementing agencies to fortify their capacity to develop 
better regulations, design more effective information systems and tools, and improve targeting 
1
Social Sector Adjustment Loan Project (7134-CO), approved August 1, 2002. 
2
PLaRSSAL I approved September, 2003, PLaRSSAL II is under preparation. 
Page  3
3
and outcomes of the country’s key social assistance, health and education programs.  The 
knowledge, tools and ideas would be developed and implemented by staff with support of 
external consultants.  Assimilation of the knowledge produced by the TAL would significantly 
contribute to institutional capacity building. 
 
The key performance indicators of the project would be measured by the completion of agreed 
analytical, advisory, and consensus-building activities in support of the above-mentioned labor 
and social reforms (Annex 3).  An additional measure of the project result would be the extent to 
which the recommendations of the various said activities are carried out by the staff.  These 
activities include 
inter alia
 design of information systems, data collection and analysis, staff 
training, expert advice on needed regulations/decrees/policy documents to advance the reforms, 
piloting innovative schemes, workshops to disseminate findings and recommendation among 
public and private stakeholders, building partnerships with civil society, and adoption of the new 
institutional mechanisms and instruments financed under the TAL operation. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
A
$2.0 million loan is proposed and would finance the analytical, advisory and consensus-
building activities of the following three main Project components: technical assistance to the 
Ministry of Social Protection (Component 1), technical assistance to the Ministry of Education 
(Component 2) and technical assistance to the DNP (Component 3).  The following is a brief 
description of each component (details are in Annex 4).  
 
Component 1
:
Technical Assistance for MSP (US$1.1 Million).
 
The Social Protection 
System, as envisioned by the MSP, has four key areas that this component would cover: (i) labor 
market policies (e.g., training, active labor market policies such as wage subsidies, and social 
assistance for the unemployed); (ii) social assistance for especially vulnerable groups such as 
young children, adolescents and elderly poor persons; (iii) health sector insurance for the poor; 
and (iv) micro/credit programs.  Coordination of all these programs is an enormous institutional 
challenge for the MSP, as most of these programs are run by separate semi/autonomous agencies 
like ICBF, SENA and the 
Cajas de Compensación
 
Familiar
.
This component would provide technical assistance to the MSP to ensure timely, sustained, and 
effective implementation of health, labor, training and social assistance reforms.  Specifically, it 
would finance the hiring of consultants who would work with the DNP, MEN, and MSP to: (a) 
develop the implementation strategies, action plans and instruments needed to implement 
reforms of the ICBF (Institute for Child and Family Welfare), SENA (National Training 
Institute), the 
Cajas de Compensación Familiar 
 (workers’ family assistance program) and 
others; (b) undertake diagnostic studies and development of alternative institutional and 
organizational arrangements for the training and social protection programs, including early child 
education, programs for adolescent and unskilled youth, and support for the elderly with no 
formal social assistance; (c) develop a system of output-based indicators for following up 
progress in the achievement of agreed social protection system targets; and (d) establishment of 
an impact evaluation system for the main social protection programs under the MSP and 
development of key household surveys for said purpose.  
 
Page  4
4
The technical support to the MSP would help it tackle the coordination of large programs such as 
SENA, ICBF and 
Cajas de Compensación Familiar 
by establishing working agreements and 
mechanisms based on the new division of responsibilities in which the MSP assumes policy 
making, coordination and supervisory roles (not previously existing), and by developing the 
information systems and channels to achieve such coordination.  The MSP would develop 
verification mechanisms by analyzing the databases of program beneficiaries to ensure that they 
are all following the targeting criteria established by such Ministry.  
 
Finally, the TAL would help the GOC address some intersectoral issues between the MSP and 
the MEN.  For example, it would provide assistance to help clarify regulatory Decrees and the 
implementation of the new roles in technical training provided in the recent CONPES document 
on the National Skills Formation System and the new role of SENA.  In this framework, the 
MSP assumes the role of policy making and certifies training programs (previously made by 
SENA) and the MEN oversees technical aspects of training.  SENA would be charged with 
providing specified training under certain conditions and regulations.  
 
Component 2
:
Assistance to MEN (US$450,000).
 
The project would support: (a) a study of the 
current process of collecting and verifying enrollment and other data used to calculate the 
amount of education transfers to territories to detect flaws in the process; (b) based on said study, 
the development of a more adequate system for data audits, safeguard procedures and penalty 
schemes against fraud and manipulation; (c) the review and dissemination of country and 
international experiences regarding the use of “contracts” and other innovative schemes for the 
delivery of primary and secondary education services; (d) the development of policies and 
implementation strategies to ensure that the decentralization reform actually leads to school 
empowerment and motivation for quality improvements; and (e) the development and pilot-
testing of ways to track public education and health expenditures financed by transfers under 
Law 715 to their beneficiaries.  This would be undertaken in coordination with the evaluation of 
Law 715.  The MEN and the DNP would examine the impact of the new allocation scheme on 
patterns of resource utilization, education outputs of territorial entities and utilization of the 
teaching force (see Component 3).  
 
With TAL support, MEN would evaluate the accuracy of the enrollment data provided by State 
Secretaries of Education, upon which education transfers from the central government are based. 
Currently, state Secretaries of Education have an incentive to overstate enrollment to receive 
more resources from the central government.  This assessment would provide auditing 
methodologies that the MEN could incorporate to tackle and detect information problems early 
in the process and take corrective actions.  
 
This component would improve MEN’s capacity to better implement the education reform 
provision of Law 715.  Under the new decentralization law, resources are transferred from the 
central to state and municipal levels largely on the basis of enrollment.  While the allocation 
scheme under Law 715 is a sound approach to improve efficiency and equity across territorial 
entities and to promote rationalization of the teaching force, it requires good auditing and control 
systems to minimize fraud and manipulation and ensure the veracity of the information. 
Moreover, for decentralization to have an impact on school performance, it is important for the 
Page  5
5
territorial entities to put in place measures that empower and motivate schools, parents, and civil 
society to improve its quality and efficiency.  
 
Component 3
:
Assistance to the DNP (US$450,000).
 
The TAL would support the effort of  the 
DNP’s Public Policy Evaluation Unit to strengthen Colombia’s culture of evaluation and 
citizens’ monitoring and feedback regarding key public policies and programs to promote 
transparency and social accountability.  To this effect, the project would support, in conjunction 
with other activities, the following: (a) an evaluation study of  the general participation system 
(revenue sharing) including the adequacy of the instrument and formula used, the impact on the 
socio/economic variables financed with that spending, equity of spending, among other things 
(this will be undertaken jointly with MEN and MSP); (b) development of a detailed 
implementation program for the periodic evaluation of selected social programs, such as SENA’s 
impact on employment, wages and productivity among trainees and firms; and (c) detailed 
implementation design and institutionalization of the social control system, based on an 
adaptation of the successful Bogotá 
Cómo Vamos?
.
The Public Policy Evaluation Unit has already made significant progress in establishing a system 
to monitor progress against set targets for most central government institutions and programs 
covered in the National Development Plan.  It also has taken steps towards the 
institutionalization of a system for impact evaluation of major social programs, starting with the 
impact evaluation of the 
Red de Apoyo Social 
(RAS) or Social Safety Net programs and the 
forging of a consensus in the GOC to include in the Organic Budget Law a requirement for 
periodic impact evaluation of major programs.  This component would further advance the 
establishment of a culture of impact evaluation and citizens’ monitoring/feedback.  
 
From the institutional point of view, the TAL would permit the DNP’s Public Policy Evaluation 
Unit (formerly SINERGIA) to undertake more key evaluation studies and learn from them, 
develop better monitoring and evaluation instruments, and institutionalize impact evaluation. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
x]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
x]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
6
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 2.0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
2.0 
 Total 
4.0 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Vicente Paqueo ( Lead Economist) or Wendy Cunningham (Sr. Economist)  
Tel: ( 202) 458-2534 or (202) 473-2384 
Fax: (202) 522-1201 
Email: 
vpaqueo@worldbank.org
or 
wcunningham@worldbank.org
