Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
APPRAISAL STAGE
Report No.:  AB1032
Project Name
COLOMBIA Technical Assistance Loan to support the 
PLaRSSAL II
Region
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Sector
Other social services (45%);Health (30%);Primary education 
(15%);
Secondary education (10%)
Project ID
P088857
Borrower(s)
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Implementing Agency
TBC
Contact: 
Ramiro Guerrero
Technical Viceminister 
Ministry of Social Protection
Carrera 13 # 32 
–
 76, 22
nd
 Floor
Bogota, Colombia
Tel: 571
-
 336 5066 
ext. 2210; 
Email :  rguerreroc@minproteccionsocial.gov.co
Environment Category
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
Safeguard Classification
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
Date PID Prepared
July
 29, 2004
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization
TBC/July 19, 2004
Date of Board Approval
October 14, 2004
1.
Country and Sector Background
Since its economic crisis at the close of the 20
th
 century, Colombia has achieved economic and social 
progress.    With  its
  economy  growing  at  over  3  percent  annually  and  unemployment  rate  recently 
declining by 3 percentage points to 14 percent, poverty rates have begun to decline for the first time in 
seven years and security has improved, as indicated by the decrease in the 
number of kidnappings and by 
the increasing presence of government forces in the more violent regions of the country.
Difficult  challenges,  however,  remain,  as  discussed  in  the  accompanying  program  document  of  the 
Second Programmatic Labor and Social Struc
tural Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL II). Colombia continues 
to suffer from high levels of poverty.  Many children remain vulnerable to illness and while substantial 
resources are spent on health, a high proportion of families still lack adequate protection aga
inst financial 
losses from illness and they lack good quality basic health services. Moreover, Colombia lags behind 
similar  countries  in  the  level  and  quality  of  education  and  training,  which  undermines  Colombia’s 
prospects for long
-
term competitiveness an
d growth.  Complicating the situation is the violent conflict 
which continues to consume a large portion of the budget and leads to social strife, by displacing millions 
of citizens from their homes and increasing the burden on the country’s still inadequa
te social protection 
system.
To address these challenges, the Government of Colombia (GOC) has developed an ambitious labor and 
social reform agenda.  GOC has initiated many sweeping policy and structural reforms over the last few 
years  to  improve  the  perf
ormance  of  the  social  sector  and  the  functioning  of  the  labor  market  (see 
Page  2
accompanying PLaRSSAL II program document).  These reforms include, 
inter alia
: (i) the creation of 
the new Ministry of Social Protection (MSP), generated through a merger of the Min
istries of Health and 
Labor,  to  oversee  and  coordinate  all  social  protection,  health  and  labor  policies,  regulations,  and 
programs; (ii) implementation of the decentralization law (Law 715) of the year 2000; (iii) an amendment 
of Law 60 of 1993 (modifying 
the formula for transferring education and health resources to departments 
and municipalities in order to promote efficiency and service quality); and (iv) the enactment of the labor 
reform Law 789 of December 2002, which seeks to lower the costs of labor 
and provide more flexibility 
to labor contracts.  
If properly implemented, these reforms are expected to increase employment and produce significant and 
sustained improvements in the existing systems of social protection, health and education and worker 
training.  The issue is that Colombia requires technical assistance in order to implement these reforms 
effectively and in order to measure results. While GOC staff is highly competent, there may not be 
sufficient staff to both carry out the normal work re
quired by social agencies and to ensure timely and 
sustained implementation and monitoring of these new reforms.  It is expected that when the proposed 
Technical Assitance Loan (TAL) is completed, key staff of participating agencies would have improved 
the
ir knowledge, analytical tools, and ability to advance human development reforms and manage those 
reforms for results.
2.
Objectives
The  Project  would  assist  the  Department  of  National  Planning  (DNP)  and  the  Ministries  of  Social 
Protection (MSP) and Educati
on (MEN) in improving knowledge, developing effective instruments, and 
strengthening ability to carry out reforms supported by the Programmatic Labor and Social Structural 
Adjustment  Loan  (PLaRSSAL).  Specifically,  the  Project’s  main  development  objectives 
include  the 
promotion  of  results
-
based  management  of  reforms  and  the  strengthening  of:  (i)  MSP’s  capacity  to 
implement a coherent social protection reform that encompasses employment, training, health and social 
assistance for the poor and vulnerable; 
(ii)
 MEN’s ability to better implement education decentralization 
reforms mandated by Law 715, analyze primary and secondary school integration and evaluate the school 
readiness of 5
-
year old children; and (iii) DNP’s capacity for institutionalizing periodic e
valuation and 
monitoring of national social programs for citizens’ oversight and feedback. 
Through these objectives, the Project would improve 
the ability of the Ministries of Social Protection and 
Education as well as the DNP to monitor and evaluate and
 manage for results the various reforms for 
which they are responsible
. Moreover, the expected incorporation of the knowledge, ideas, and tools 
developed  and  implemented  by  staff  with  support  of  external  TAL  consultants  would  significantly 
contribute to in
stitutional capacity building.
The 
key performance
 indicators of the Project would include completion of agreed analytical, advisory, 
and consensus
-
building activities in support of the above
-
mentioned labor and social reforms (Annex 3).
As an indicator 
of capacity building, the Project would also monitor measures actually taken by DNP, 
MSP, and MEN to systematically monitor and evaluate their programs and to use the monitoring and 
evaluation results to inform policy and program decisions. 
3.
Rationale fo
r Bank Involvement
During the deliberation of the First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan 
(PLaRSSAL I), the GOC requested and the Bank agreed to the preparation of a TAL to support the 
implementation of the PLaRSSAL reforms. 
The Bank is arguably well positioned to be involved in the 
Page  3
Project.  First,  the  value  added  of  its  assistance  is  high  due  to  its  technical  expertise  in  the  above
-
mentioned  reform  areas.  This  expertise  has  been  established  through  its  high
-
quality  regional  a
nd 
country
-
level analytical and advisory work. Second, the Bank has developed close rapport with GOC and 
a  credible  reputation  on  social  and  labor  reform  issues  through  its  series  of  analytical  pieces  and 
investment  and  adjustment  lending  operations  in  hum
an  development,  including  social  protection. 
Sustained involvement in those issues since the economic crisis in 1998 permitted the GOC and the Bank 
to develop a deep and common understanding of issues affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of social 
sp
ending  
The  TAL  builds  on  the  foundations  of  previous  Bank
-
supported  sector  work  and  lending  programs, 
especially the SECAL
1
 and the PLaRSSAL,
2
 and expands on their work through strengthened support for 
the implementation of their ambitious reform progra
ms.  The present Project would, however, deal with 
only  a  limited  number  of  activities,  complementing    activities  funded  by  the  PHRD  grant  for  the 
preparation of PLaRSSAL and complementing the current assistance provided to GOC by the IDB. Bank
-
IDB collabo
ration on social and labor reform issues has  been extensive.  
The  current  Country  Assistance  Strategy  (CAS)  gives  high  priority  to  the  reforms  supported  by  the 
PLaRSSAL and TAL operations; the Project fits very well with the CAS inasmuch as the proposed
Project would provide critical support to the implementation of the discussed reforms. In particular, it is 
necessary  to  craft  more  adequate  regulation  of  the  new  laws,  to  design  appropriate  implementation 
instruments,    to  develop  detailed  operational  pro
cedures  and  information  systems,  and  to  build 
institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate the results of the various reforms.  If successful, the TAL 
would contribute to the CAS objective of poverty reduction through increased employment, improved 
educa
tion and training, and more effective social protection.
4.
Description
The loan would finance the analytical, advisory and consensus
-
building activities of the following three 
main  Project  components:  technical  assistance  to  the  Ministry  of  Social  Protec
tion  (Component  1), 
technical  assistance  to  the  Ministry  of  Education  (Component  2)  and  technical  assistance  to  DNP 
(Component 3). These activities include, 
inter alia
, design of information systems, data collection and 
analysis, staff training, expert adv
ice on needed regulations/decrees/policy documents to advance the 
reforms, piloting innovative schemes, workshops to disseminate findings and recommendations among 
public  and  private  stakeholders,  building    partnerships  with  civil  society,  and  adoption  of 
the  new 
institutional mechanisms to be financed under the TAL operation.
Although the size of the proposed loan is small due to limited fiscal space, the TAL is adequate for the 
purpose  of  complementing  related  activities  supported  by  the  Bank  and  its  par
tners  through  other 
operations (see Annex 2 and Sections B.7 and C.1). Together, the TAL and these other operations would 
contribute to building the institutional capacity of MEN, MSP and DNP to develop the labor and social 
sector  reforms  and  to  manage  tho
se  programs  with  the  goal  of  improving  outcomes.  The  planned 
operations include: (i) the data collection and analytical work that the Bank and IDB are funding in 
parallel (e.g 
Red de Apoyo Social
 (RAS), 
Sistema de Selección de Beneficiarios
 (
SISBEN
) 
updat
ing, and 
evaluation studies); and (ii)  the PHRD
-
supported activities which the TAL would continue to support. 
A 
brief description of each TAL component follows; details appear in Annex 4.
1
Social Sector Adjustment Loan Project (7134
-
CO), approved August 1, 2002.
2
 PLaRSSAL I approved September, 2003, PLaRSSAL II is under preparation.
Page  4
Component 1
: 
Technical Assistance for MSP (US$1.1 Million)
.
  The S
ocial Protection System, as 
envisioned by the MSP, has four key areas that this component would cover: (i) labor market policies 
such  as  training,  wage  subsidies,  and  social  assistance  to  the  unemployed;  (ii)  social  assistance  to 
vulnerable groups includin
g young children, adolescents and the elderly poor; (iii) a 
financial model of 
the  Social  Protection  System  (SPS);  (iv)  regional  dimensions  of  the  SPS;  and  (v)  monitoring  and 
evaluation systems.
 Coordination of all these programs is an enormous institution
al challenge for the 
MSP, as most of these programs are run by separate semi/autonomous agencies like ICBF, SENA, the 
workers’ family assistance program
 (Cajas de Compensación
Familiar)
 and other 
 non
-
 governmental 
institutions.
This first component would
 provide technical assistance to MSP to ensure timely, sustained, and effective 
implementation of health, labor, training and social assistance reforms.  Specifically, it would finance the 
hiring of consultants who would work with the DNP, MEN, and MSP to 
: (a) develop the implementation 
strategies and instruments needed to implement reforms of ICBF, SENA, the 
Cajas de Compensación 
Familiar 
and  other  institutions;  (b)  undertake  diagnostic  studies  and  develop  alternative  institutional 
arrangements for the tr
aining and social protection programs, including early child education, programs 
for adolescent and unskilled youth, and support for the elderly who have no formal social assistance; (c) 
develop a system of output
-
based indicators for following progress in
 the achievement of agreed social 
protection system targets; and (d) establish an impact evaluation system for the main social protection 
programs under the MSP and develop household surveys to allow these impact evaluations. The TAL 
would complement other
 Bank and GOC operations in the monitoring and the evaluation of the actual 
employment results of Law 789.
The technical support to the MSP would help it improve coordination between large programs such as 
SENA, ICBF and 
Cajas de Compensación Familiar 
by 
establishing working agreements based on the 
new division of responsibilities in which the MSP assumes policy making, coordination and supervision 
roles , and by developing the information systems and channels to achieve coordination. The MSP would 
develop
 mechanisms for verification by analyzing databases of program beneficiaries to ensure that all 
programs follow targeting criteria established by MSP. 
Finally, the TAL would help the GOC address some intersectoral issues between the MSP and the MEN.  
Fo
r example, the TAL would  help clarify and advance implementation of the new roles of MSP and 
MEN in the new National Skills Formation System as proscribed in the recent CONPES document. 
3
 In 
this framework,  the MSP assumes the role of policymaking and ce
rtifies training programs that were 
previously made by SENA, and the MEN oversees the technical aspects of training. SENA would be 
charged with providing specified training under certain conditions and regulations. 
Component  2
: 
Assistance  to MEN
  (US$450,
000). 
The  objective  of  this component  is  to  support 
MEN’s capacity to implement four key reform activities supported by the PLaRSSAL program (Annex 4 
describes  details  of  those  activities).  The  first  activity  is  implementation  of  the  education  reform 
pro
visions of Law 715, which transfer resources from the central to state and municipal levels largely on 
the basis of enrollment.  While this allocation scheme is a sound approach for increasing efficiency, for 
improving equity across territorial entities, a
nd for promoting rationalization of the teaching force, this 
activity requires good auditing and control systems to minimize fraud and to ensure the accuracy of 
obtained information. Initial auditing activities have already been done successfully in a few 
selected 
municipalities using resources from the Japanese PHRD Grant. The second activity, to be done jointly 
with  DNP,  supports  analysis  of  the  new  revenue  sharing  system  between  the  national  and  local 
government.  Specifically,  it  reviews  the  impact  on eq
uity,  patterns  of  resource  utilization,  education 
outputs and utilization of the teaching force in different areas of Colombia. The third, to be conducted 
3
 CONPES No
. 81 f
rom July, 26, 2004
Page  5
separately for different types of schools, is to evaluate the organizational and pedagogical effects 
of the 
integration of primary and secondary schools and to propose actions for improvement.  The fourth is to 
evaluate  the  abilities  in  language,  mathematics,  natural  science  and  civic  of  five  year  old  children 
beginning Preschool education. The aim is to 
improve educational policies and programs according to the 
development and learning needs of those children.
Component 3
: 
Assistance to DNP (US$450,000).
The TAL would support the effort of DNP’s Public 
Policy Evaluation Unit (formerly SINERGIA) to stren
gthen citizen monitoring, evaluation, transparency 
and social accountability.  To this effect, the Project would support, in conjunction with other activities, 
the following: (a) an evaluation study of  the general participation system (revenue sharing) in
cluding the 
adequacy of the instrument and formula used as well as the results of their application (this study would 
be undertaken jointly with MEN and MSP).  This study would be co
-
financed with the IDB, which is 
providing  about  US$1  million  for  this  stu
dy;  and  (b)  support  the  continuation  of  detailed  design, 
implementation and institutionalization of the social control system, DNP is developing based on an 
adaptation of the successful 
Bogotá,
Cómo Vamos? 
program. 
The DNP’s Public Policy Evaluation Unit
 has already made significant progress in establishing a system 
to monitor progress against targets for most central government institutions and programs covered in the 
National Development Plan.  It also has taken steps towards the institutionalization of
 a system for impact 
evaluation of major social programs.  Those steps include carrying out an impact evaluation of the 
Red de 
Apoyo Social 
(RAS) or Social Safety Net program, and the forging of a consensus in GOC to include in 
Colombia’s national Budget L
aw a requirement for periodic impact evaluation of major programs.  This 
component  would  further  advance  a  culture  of  impact  evaluation  and  the  ability  of  citizens  to  give 
feedback on the performance of government programs. 
From the institutional point o
f view, the TAL would permit DNP’s Public Policy Evaluation Unit  to 
undertake more key evaluation studies and to learn from those studies, to develop better monitoring and 
evaluation instruments, and to develop institutional support for impact evaluation
.
5.
Financing
Source:
($m.)
BORROWER
0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT
2
Total
2
6.
Implementation
Accounting  and  financial  management  system
.    Project  financial  management  processes  will  be  
handled by the PIU managing the IDB 
Health Sector Reform project  ($38 million) at the MSP.  The PIU 
consists  of    10  people.    The  financial  team  includes  a  Financial  and  Administrative  Coordinator,  a 
Financial Consultant and an Accountant.  The role of the latter two officials is primarily t
o review and 
gather information prepared in the MSP for component 1 and in the MEN and DNP for  components 2 
and 3.  They would be responsible for maintaining project
-
specific records and managing project
-
specific 
processes such as the preparation of the c
onsolidated financial reports, disbursement requests, tracking 
project  funds,  requesting  and  coordinating  the  financial  audits  with  the 
Contraloría
,  and  providing 
operational  guidance  to  executing  entities  in  charge  of  implementation  of  project  activities.
  Project 
Accounting responsibilities will be handle in each of the executing entities (MEN, DNP, and MSP). The 
Page  6
accounting of DNP and MSP will be based on information received from UNDP and FONADE.  The 
consolidation  process  and  reporting    will  be  managed  i
n  Excel  by  the  PIU  at  MSP.    Financial 
management (FM) issues are discussed in more detail in Annex 7.
Auditing arrangements.
  The financial audit for the project expenditures will be carried out in accordance 
with Terms of Reference prepared according to 
the audit policy of the Bank in effect since July 1, 2003.   
The Terms of Reference and the appointment of the auditor are the responsibility of the MSP.   
For the Project, a separate financial audit report will be required to be submitted for every year
 of project 
implementation.  The 
Contraloría
 is the auditor for the IDB project.  The 2003 audit report for this on
-
going IDB project has been completed.  It was observed that the audit opinion was unqualified and the 
internal control issues included were 
not significant.  As required by local regulations,  the same auditor 
will be appointed for the new operation. 
Disbursement  arrangements.
Assuming  that  an  agreement  is  reached  between  the  Bank  and  the 
Government on Special Account (SA) issues across vari
ous projects, an SA will be established for the 
MEN and MSP components.  The DNP component is expected to involve only direct payments to UNDP 
(these do not pass through the Special Account).  
7.
Sustainability
The TAL is one of a series of collaborative o
perations between GOC and the Bank. Experience with these 
operations clearly indicates high and sustained GOC commitment towards social reforms. These reforms 
are being further advanced by the PLaRSSAL, and their implementation is expected to be facilitate
d by 
the TAL. All the activities financed by the TAL are fully owned by GOC and are consistent with its 
reform  agenda,  which  are  currently  being  implemented.    The  results  of  the  labor  and  social  reform 
programs and the capacity
-
building activities supporte
d by the TAL are expected to be sustainable.  
8.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The TAL was prepared and designed with the following key lessons in mind: 
First, 
human  development  and  social  protection  issues,  particularly  in  l
ight  of  the  millennium 
development goals, are multi
-
sectoral in character and therefore require a multisectoral approach. 
Second, in dealing with multisectoral issues, it is important to be selective and coherent, and to focus on 
high priority reforms to
 which the government is committed.
Third,  emphasizing  outputs  rather  than  inputs  and  processes  facilitates  monitoring  of  progress  and 
achievement of results.  Focusing on key program outcomes permits the inclusion of many sectors in the 
operation, which 
would be difficult to manage in a series of operations if the outcomes for each sector 
were not clearly defined and measurable.  This also permits the inclusion of sectors where reform efforts 
are more advanced than in others. 
Fourth, phasing is importan
t and process
-
related activities help to lay needed groundwork for results
-
oriented measures.  
Fifth, the value added of Bank support is greater when that support is part of a consistent series of lending 
operations and when it is part of a strong policy
 dialogue based on a common understanding and high 
Page  7
quality  collaborative  analysis  of  key  issues  .  A  series  of  operations  including  the  social  safety  net 
investment loans, SECAL, PLaRSSAL I, and PLaRSSAL II commit the government and the Bank to stay 
focused
  on  monitoring  progress  in  outputs  of  key  reform  measures  over  a  longer  time  period  in  a 
coordinated, formal and systematic way.  The agreed set of outcome indicators, and the evaluation of 
those outcome indicators with the beginning of each new operation,
 allows for new strategies to be 
implemented when the previous strategies did not return the expected results. Constant collaboration 
between the GOC, the Bank, and other partners is crucial to developing the new platform upon which the 
health, education, 
and social reforms will rest.  
Sixth, the success of a continued series of multi
-
sectoral operations owes much to the ability of the 
various government agencies (DNP, Ministry of Finance (MHCP), MSP, MEN and other line agencies) to 
work collaboratively a
nd to respect each other’s competencies. DNP has played a strong coordinating role 
in  ensuring  that the entities  involved  are  making  progress in achieving  agreed  output targets and in 
meeting the triggers.  This ensures continuation of reform efforts over 
a longer period of time and permits 
detection of delays or problems that need to be addressed early in the process.
Recognizing these lessons, the TAL has been designed to support multi
-
sectoral activities but is focused 
on high priority activities needed
 to facilitate reforms that support human development goals. The Project 
components and activities were selected by the DNP, MSP and MEN based on issues identified from 
experience with studies and lending operations supported by the Bank and IDB. Moreover,
 the Project’s 
institutional  arrangement  is  being  designed  so  that  these  ministries  have  the  necessary  autonomy  to 
prepare  and  implement  their  respective  components  efficiently,  while  at  the  same  time  establishing 
technical bodies to manage coordination, q
uality assurance, and accountability required by Bank norms.  
9.
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
Yes
No
Environmental Assessmen
t
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01)
[ ]
[ x]
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
[ ]
[ x]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[ ]
[ x]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
[ ]
[ x]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
[ ]
[ x]
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
[ ]
[ x]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
[ ]
[ x]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
[ ]
[ x]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
[ ]
[ x]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
[ ]
[ x]
10.
List of Factual Technical Documents
-
Program Document for the PLaRSSAL II
-
Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
-
Annex 2: Major Related Projects financed by the Bank and /or Agencies
-
Annex 3: Results Framewor
k and Monitoring
-
Annex 4: Detailed Project description
-
Annex 5: Project Costs
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
Page  8
-
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements.
11.
Contact point
Vicente Paqueo ( Lead Economist) or Wendy Cunningham (Sr. Economist) 
Tel: ( 202) 458
-
2534 or (202) 473
-
2384
Fax: (202) 522
-1
201
Email: 
vpaqueo@worldbank.org
 or 
wcunningham@worldbank.org
12.
For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 204
33
Telephone:  (202) 458
-
5454
Fax:  (202) 522
-
1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
