                                    Document of
                                  the World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001332



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-7260)

                                      ON

                                    A LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.0 MILLION



                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                     FOR A


                   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
       TO SUPPORT THE SECOND PROGRAMMATIC LABOR REFORM
        AND SOCIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PLaRSSAL II)




                               December 18, 2009




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2009)

                              Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                                    COP 2,026.9= US$1

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 ­ December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEP        Periodic Economic Benefit (Beneficio Económico Periódico)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCF        Family Compensation Funds (Cajas de Compensación Familiar)
CCT        Conditional Cash Transfers
CONPES     Nacional Council of Economic and Social Policy (Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y
           Social)
DANE       National Administrative Department of Statistics (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de
           Estadística)
DEPP       Department for the Evaluation of Public Policies (Dirección de Evaluación de Políticas
           Públicas)
DNP        National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
FMRs       Financial Monitoring Reports
FONADE     National Fund for Development Projects (Fondo Financiero de Proyectos de Desarrollo)
FSP        Solidarity Pension Fund (Fondo de Solidaridad Pensional)
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
ICBF       Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
ICONTEC    Colombian Institute of Technical Standards and Certification (Instituto Colombiano de Normas
           Técnicas)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
MDG        Millenium Development Goals
MERPD      Mission for the Desing of a Poverty and Inequality Reduction Strategy (Misión para el Diseño de
           una Estrategia para la Reducción de la Pobreza y la Desigualdad)
MHCP       Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
MIS        Management Information System
MEN        Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación Nacional)
MPS        Ministry of Social Protection (Ministerio de Protección Social)
PADE       Program for Direct Labor Support (Programa de Apoyo Directo al Empleo)
PlaRSSAL   Programmatic Labor and Social Structural Adjustment Program
PETS       Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
PHRD       Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PILA       Integrated Contribution Payment System (Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes)
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
RUAF       Unified Registry of Affiliates (Registro Unico del Afiliado)
SCAFT      System for the Management of Quality for Job Training Institutions (Sistema de Gestión de la
           Calidad para Instituciones de Formación para el Trabajo)
SCS        Social Control System
SENA       National Service for Job Training (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
SGP        Mechanism for revenue sharing between national and local governments (Sistema General de
           Participaciones)
SIGOB      Information System of Management and Evaluation of Presidential Goals (Sistema de Gestión y
           Seguimiento a las Metas del Gobierno)
SINERGIA   Nacional System for Results Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Resultados de la
           Gestión Pública)
SISBEN     System for the Selection of Programs' Beneficiaries (Sistema de Selección de Beneficiarios de
           Programas)
SISPRO     Information System of the Social Protection System (Ministry of Social Protection)
SNFT       National Job Training System (Sistema Nacional de Formación para el Trabajo)
TAL        Technical Asístanse Loan
UGPP       Agency for the Collection of Pension and Social Protection Para-fiscal Contributions (Unidad
           Administrativa Especial de Gestión Pensional y Contribuciones Parafiscales de la Protección
           Social)




                                 Vice President: Pamela Cox
                              Country Director: Gloria Grandolini
                               Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
                          Project Team Leader: Aline Coudouel
                            ICR Team Leaders: Diana Cardenas and Aline Coudouel
                                                  COLOMBIA
                                          SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT




                                                            CONTENTS




 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
 H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ iv
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 38
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
 Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 56
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          CO TAL to support the
Country:                Colombia                Project Name:
                                                                          2nd PSAL
Project ID:             P088857                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72600
ICR Date:               12/18/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 2.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 1.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1.9M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Social Protection (Ministerio de Proteccion Social, MPS)
 Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educacion Nacional, MEN)
 National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, DNP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/01/2004     Effectiveness:             03/17/2005        03/17/2005
Appraisal:            07/19/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/04/2004     Mid-term Review:           10/23/2006        10/20/2006
                                     Closing:                   12/29/2007        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     68                  68
Sub-national government administration                                32                  32


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     22                  22
Education for the knowledge economy                                   11                  11
Improving labor markets                                               22                  22
Other social protection and risk management                           22                  22
Social safety nets                                                    23                  23

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Helena G. Ribe                       Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:       Aline Coudouel                       Wendy Cunningham
ICR Team Leader:           Aline Coudouel
ICR Primary Author:        Diana Isabel Cardenas
                           Aline Coudouel


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project would assist the Department of National Planning (Departamento Nacional
de Planeación, DNP) and the Ministries of Social Protection (Ministerio de la Protección
Social, MPS) and Education (Ministerio de Educación Nacional, MEN) to improve their


                                                  ii
knowledge, develop effective instruments, and strengthen their ability to carry out
reforms supported by the Programmatic Labor and Social Structural Adjustment Loan
(PLaRSSAL).

  The Project seeks to strengthen the capacity of the MPS to implement a coherent social
protection reform that encompasses employment, training, health and social assistance for
the poor and vulnerable (Component 1); MEN to implement education decentralization
reforms mandated by Law 715, analyze primary and secondary school integration and
evaluate the school readiness of 5-year old children (Component 2); and DNP to
institutionalize periodic evaluation and monitoring of social programs for citizens'
oversight and feedback (Component 3).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
n/a

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
                Increase in the number of social/labor programs under DNP, MSP, and MEN
Indicator 1 :   being systematically and rigorously monitored, evaluated, and discussed with
                the public
Value
quantitative or 3                           13                                 13+
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/17/2005                    06/30/2009                         12/28/2007
                The activities of this Project have contributed to the implementation and
Comments
                dissemination of a series of evaluations of core social/labor programs under
(incl. %
                DNP, MPS, and MEN. The list of operational or impact evaluation is provided in
achievement)
                Annex 2.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
                Implementation of the recommendations on the roles of different concerned
Indicator 1 : agencies based on the guidelines proposed in the National Training System
                report
                                          100% (design of
                                          enabling
Value
                                          regulations, pilot
(quantitative   0%                                                          100%
                                          testing of the
or Qualitative)
                                          implementation of
                                          accreditation



                                              iii
                                            system of private
                                            training firms)
Date achieved 03/17/2005                    06/30/2009                          10/02/2008
Comments        The government created the Quality Training Commission, that has defined
(incl. %        quality norms and criteria for 7 occupational sectors, the Ley de Talento
achievement) Humano and the legislation on the accreditation system were approved.
Indicator 2 : Assessment of the system of revenue transfers for education to territorial entities
Value
(quantitative   0%                          100%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/17/2005                    06/30/2009                          06/30/2009
                The methodological report, supported by this Project, has been presented,
Comments
                discussed and finalized. The methodology is based on public expenditure
(incl. %
                tracking surveys, facility surveys, longitudinal analysis using administrative data
achievement)
                and household surveys.
Indicator 3 : Design, pilot testing, and implementation of a Social Control System
Value
                                            100% (Annual
(quantitative   0%                                                              100%
                                            sessions)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/17/2005                    06/30/2009                          10/02/2008
Comments        The government has implemented a series of tools, including the SIGOB
(incl. %        information system that updates the public on government central goals,
achievement) provided support to Colombia Líder, and implemented a perception survey.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/15/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/29/2005            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.15
  3     12/30/2005            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.23
  4     11/10/2006            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.65
  5     02/24/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.75
  6     09/10/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.19
  7     04/24/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.59
  8     12/01/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.80
  9     04/06/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.91
 10     06/30/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.94


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv
I. Disbursement Profile
   http://projportal.worldbank .org
   /shared/SiteReso urces/ICR/D IS
   B_CHA RT/P088857.png




                                      v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

A. Country and sector issues

At the time of appraisal, Colombia was beginning to recover from one of its worst economic
crises. The economy had begun to recover with a growth rate of around 3 percent annually in the
early 2000s, the unemployment rate had declined by 3 percentage points to 14 percent in 2003,
the coverage of social programs continued to increase, and the Government's policy to address
civil violence started to have some success.

Despite these positive outcomes, Colombia continued facing important social challenges, as
poverty was still very high, and a considerable proportion of families still did not have adequate
protection against financial losses from illness, unemployment and other socioeconomics shocks,
increasing the burden on the country's still inadequate social protection system. School
attendance had increased, but the country lagged behind countries at similar levels of economic
development, both in the level and in the quality of its education and training. The internal
security situation also absorbed a large portion of the budget and had a negative impact on social
outcomes.

To overcome these challenges, the Government of Colombia implemented an ambitious
institutional, labor and social reform agenda to increase employment, improve education and
training, and strengthen human capital accumulation. That agenda was supported by the World
Bank with the series of budget support operations1. By 2004, the Government: i) had created a
social safety net to protect the poorest; ii) had created the Ministry of Social Protection with the
mandate to increase the efficiency and coordination of the social protection system; iii) was
implementing the decentralization law (Law 715 of 2001) that modified the formula to transfer
education and health resources to departments and municipalities in order to promote efficiency
and service quality; and iv) had enacted the labor reform Law 7892.

B. Rationale for Bank assistance

The implementation of the ambitious social reform agenda developed by the Colombian
Government to overcome the social impacts resulting from the 1999 crisis was challenging,
because of the breadth of reforms and their high technical content. A strong partnership between
the Government and the Bank over the past few years has been instrumental in supporting the
1
  In addition to the TAL, the Bank supported the creation and implementation of the Ministry of Social protection,
the expansion of coverage of social protection services, the creation of the targeting policy for the nutrition
programs of the ICBF, the implementation of labor and training reforms, progress in the implementation of the
health reform (Law 100), the acceleration of education reforms, and the promotion of greater transparency and
social control of programs.

2
  Report 26512-CO for the First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment (Ln. 7193) and
report 29590-CO for the second Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loans (Ln. 7259).


                                                        1
design and implementation of reforms. This partnership has been based on a close technical
rapport and a programmatic lending program. In particular, the Bank had supported Colombia in
the implementation of the social reform agenda through a series of operations, including the
Human Capital Protection Project (Ln. 7050), the Social Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 7134) and
the first of a series of Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loans
PLaRSSAL I (Ln. 7193).

This Project was designed within the context of this broader support to the implementation of
reforms in the social sectors, with an objective to continue to strengthen the institutions
responsible for the design and implementation of social reforms. At the time of preparation of the
second PLaRSSAL, the Government requested additional technical assistance to inform the
design, promote the implementation and monitor the reforms. This Project was requested by the
Government to complement the activities funded by a PHRD grant obtained for the preparation
of the second PLaRSSAL (effective April 15, 2004) and the technical assistance provided by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).

Through the Series of Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment, the Bank
supported the implementation of the policies actions described above, which required the
development of instruments that were financed by this Project. This includes the creation of a
unified information system to facilitate payment of social security contributions, the creation of
the accreditation system for training institutions, and the creation of mechanisms to channel
citizens' feedback on government performance. In addition, the activities supported under
component 1 led to the identification of the needs for an additional component in the investment
operation supporting the Familias en Acción program (Ln.7337) to design, pilot and implement a
comprehensive M&E system for the social protection system.

C. Higher level objectives to which the Project contributed

The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia, approved by the
Executive Directors on January 9, 2003 was based on three pillars: economic growth, building
quality government, and sharing the fruits of growth. This Project contributed to the CAS
objectives by:

i) building quality government through the strengthening of the Ministries of Social Protection
   and Education, and the National Planning Department; development of information systems
   to increase the efficiency and consolidate elements of the social protection system;
   improvement of administrative registries for school enrolment and attendance monitoring;
   and systematic evaluation of social programs and dissemination of findings for greater
   citizens' oversight, and

ii) sharing the fruits of growth through the strengthening of the Ministry of Social Protection's
    capacity to manage a more efficient, inclusive and equitable social protection system and
    promote greater coverage of social insurance.




                                                2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project objective was to assist the Department of National Planning (DNP) and the
Ministries of Social Protection (MPS) and Education (MEN) to improve their knowledge,
develop effective instruments, and strengthen their ability to carry out reforms supported by the
Second Programmatic Labor and Social Structural Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL II).


                                   Key Outcome and Intermediary Indicators

Outcome indicator: Increase in number of social/labor programs under DNP, MPS, and MEN being systematically and
rigorously monitored, evaluated and discussed with the public for citizens' oversight and feedback-relative to baseline

Intermediary results indicators:

(1). Component 1: Implementation of the recommendations about the different roles of concerned agencies based on the
     guidelines proposed in the National Training System report.

(2). Component 2: Assessment of the system of revenue transfers for education for territorial entities under Law 715.

(3). Component 3: Design, pilot testing, and implementation of a Social Control System (SCS) for Colombia.




1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective and Key Indicators were not revised during the course of the
Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The direct beneficiaries of the Project were the National Planning Department (DNP), the
Ministry of Social Protection (MPS), and the Ministry of Education (MEN). The ultimate
beneficiaries of the Project were the families and individuals who benefit from improved quality
of education, greater efficiency and effectiveness of core social programs, and improved
sustainability of social service provision (health, education and social protection).

1.5 Original Components

The Project had the following three components: technical assistance to the Ministry of Social
Protection (Component 1), technical assistance to the Ministry of Education (Component 2), and
technical assistance to the National Planning Department (Component 3).

Component 1: Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Social Protection. Its objective was to
strengthen the Ministry's capacity to implement a coherent social protection reform that

                                                         3
encompassed employment, training, health and social assistance for the poor and vulnerable.
This component covered five key areas:

    (i) labor market policies such as training, wage subsidies, and social assistance to the
             unemployed;
    (ii) social assistance to vulnerable groups including young children, adolescents and the
             elderly poor;
    (iii)a financial model of the Social Protection System (SPS);
    (iv) regional dimension of the SPS; and
    (v) monitoring and evaluation systems.


Component 2: Technical Assistance to the MEN. The objectives of this component were to
strengthen the MEN's capacity to implement key reforms with a focus on four specific areas:

    (i) Implementation of the education reform provisions of Law 715;
    (ii) Analysis of the mechanisms for revenue sharing between national and local governments
            (Sistema General de Participaciones, SGP);
    (iii)Evaluation, for different types of schools, of the organizational and pedagogical effects of
            the integration of primary and secondary education in the same school and to propose
            actions for improvement; and
    (iv) Evaluation of the abilities that five year old children should have in language,
            mathematics, natural science and civic education before beginning the first grade of
            primary education.

Component 3: Technical Assistance to DNP. Support the DNP's capacity to strengthen citizen
monitoring, evaluation, transparency and social accountability, in particular by supporting:

    (i) An evaluation of the mechanisms for revenue sharing between national and local
            governments (SGP), and
    (ii) The design and implementation of the social control system developed by the DNP.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project's components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were two significant changes to the Project3:



3
  During the implementation of the Project, the Government also requested the preparation of an amendment to the
legal agreement that would allow for greater flexibility in the selection of a Fiduciary Agent through a competitive
process. The amendment was prepared and approved by the Country Director in June 2006, but the Government
decided not to proceed with the amendment.


                                                         4
      (1)                                          At the time of preparation, the activities related to:
            a) the management and implementation processes of the Component 1 in the Ministry of
            Social Protection; b) the coordination of all Project activities, and c) the consolidation of
            information about financial and disbursement processes, were in charge of the Project
            Implementation Unit (PIU) which existed in the MPS (this PIU was managing other IDB
            Projects, and was deemed adequate by the Bank after an assessment of its capacity by the
            Financial Management team), for which the MPS hired an additional support staff. In
            2006, when the IDB Projects and their PIU were closed, the Ministry decided not to
            create a new implementation unit for this Project, but rather to mainstream the
            management of the Project, as preferred by the World Bank under the auspice of a Project
            manager in the front office of the Technical Vice-Minister of Social Protection. In April
            2008, the Technical Vice-Minister of Social Protection himself took the responsibilities
            of Project Coordinator. While the mainstreaming of Project management in the Ministry
            resulted in some delays, it also is an important improvement in the Project, as it ensures
            greater coordination with other programs and activities, greater alignment with priorities,
            and builds the capacity of the Ministry itself to manage and implement projects. These
            are important elements for the sustainability of the reforms informed by the Project, and
            the arrangement preferred by the Bank.

      (2)                                        The closing date for the Project was originally
            December 30, 2007. The Government requested an 18 month extension, until June 30,
            2009, because of delays in the execution of the first and third components of the Project.
            These delays were caused by a series of factors detailed below, most importantly by the
            institutionalization of implementation arrangements in the Ministry of Social Protection
            mentioned above and technical difficulties in the definition and contracting of the core
            activity of Component 3.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project design was consistent and coordinated with other analytical work and lending
operations that supported the implementation of social and labor reforms during 2002-20064.
Indeed, the Project was prepared during the period between the First PLaRSSAL I (Ln.7193) and
Second PLaRSSAL II (7259), with the objective to inform the reforms, reduce implementation
risks and promote the sustainability of reforms. Hence, the Project incorporated lessons from
previous technical and financial assistance in Colombia, and was an integral part of the broader
policy dialogue between the Government of Colombia and the Bank on the issues of the social
and labor reforms.

This Project was requested by the Government of Colombia, with a view to fill important
analytical or technical gaps identified during the first phase of implementation of the PLaRSSAL
I. This contributed to high degrees of ownership within the agencies, a critical element for the
successful implementation of Technical Assistance projects. In terms of design, the activities
4
    Social Sector Adjustment Loan Project (Ln. 7134), PLaRSSAL I (Ln. 7193), PLaRSSAL II (Ln. 7259).


                                                        5
supported by the Project were identified and were consistent with the reforms supported by the
PLaRSSAL Program, and the complete match between the needs and the activities ensured a
very high relevance by the implementing agencies. The statement of development objectives for
each component was appropriate in term of the nature of the activities of the Project.

Project design was complex, with three implementing agencies and numerous activities that
required coordination and collaboration. However, greater collaboration and coordination
between the three implementing agencies ­ the Ministry of Social Protection, the Ministry of
Education, and the National Planning Department ­ was also one of the key objectives of this
Project.

The assessment of risk was comprehensive and accurate for all components (see section 2.2 on
implementation).

2.2 Implementation

Technical implementation. As presented below in the section on outcomes, the Project reached
its objectives of strengthening the capacity of three core Government agencies in the design and
implementation of an ambitious social reform agenda. On the technical side, the Bank provided
very close supervision and assistance to the agencies for the definition of Terms of Reference
(TORs), the selection of consultants, and the review of their reports and recommendations. This,
together with the strong interest and ownership of the agencies, led to a consistently high level of
quality in the outputs supported by this Project. Many of the analysis and recommendations led
directly to policy decisions, decrees, laws or regulations, highlighting their relevance and impact.

In addition, throughout project implementation, the implementing Government agencies, with
support from the World Bank, ensured inter-agency discussions and collaboration on key issues.
As mentioned earlier, greater coordination among agencies is a key element of successful
second-generation reforms, which focus on building systems and ensuring coherence,
compatibility and coordination. While the dialogue between different Government institutions
was not always easy, especially on complex reforms such as labor market reforms, training, as
well as old-age pension, the Project's activities provided an important platform for engaging in
such dialogue.

On the technical front, the only important difficulty resided in the design of the evaluation to
assess the system of transfer of revenues to territorial entities and the contracting of the related
consultancy (Component 3). The complexities of the subject to be evaluated and the mix of
methodologies required to undertake the evaluation led to a longer process of elaboration of
TORs than initially anticipated. In addition, during the procurement process, clarifications were
requested by competing firms, which lengthened the selection process. Finally, the evaluation
itself required more time than anticipated, because of the complex data collection and analysis
process. The original timetable was very unrealistically ambitious, especially in view of the
institutional coordination which was required and which turned out to be a key factor for the
success of the Project.




                                                 6
Project management and administration. In terms of the Project's management, the main
challenge faced during the implementation of the Project related to the coordination between the
implementing agencies and delays in execution. The Operational Manual had defined rules and
processes for inter-institutional coordination, but these did not prove sufficient and inter-
institutional articulation was weak. This was partly due to weaknesses in the Project management
group in the MPS. Another element which resulted in delays in implementation was the 2006
decision by the Government to prohibit the hiring of consultants during the pre-electoral period
to avoid governance issues (known as Ley de Garantias). This law covered the four months prior
to the elections held in May 2006. Procurement and financial management delays were overcome
with the support of the Bank team which organized mini-clinics to train the Project team in
application of Bank processes and provided intensive hands-on support.

Component 1 faced additional delays related to two factors. First, once the MPS closed the IDB
Projects, the implementation unit for this component was mainstreamed within the Ministry, as
considered good practice by the World Bank, and put under the auspices of the Technical Vice-
Minister. There were three successive changes in the Project Coordination over a period of a
year, resulting in delays in the preparation of TORs, renewal of the contract with the National
Fund for Development Projects (FONADE) for the financial management of the Project, and
contracting of consultancies and services. Second, at the beginning of 2008, the MPS lacked the
fiscal space to execute the Project. This was the result of the Reform to the National Budget,
which eliminated the option for entities to set funds from a fiscal year aside for execution in the
following year (Reservas Fiscales) in December 2007. The Technical Vice-Minister was
eventually able to reallocate resources within the entity to fully execute the planned activities for
the second semester of 2008 and first semester of 2009. Once the challenges were overcome, the
agency managed to complete the implementation of the Component and reach its development
objectives and targets in a satisfactory manner.

In terms of costs, the actual administrative costs for the Project was nearly US$160,000 (around
8 percent of the total amount), four times the initially planned costs, as presented in Annex 1.
The initial costs were largely under-estimated because of the unexpected mainstreaming of the
administration of the Project within the MPS (while costs were orignilly expected to be covered
by the project unit managing the IDB projects), the extension of the Project, and the lack of
allocation of resources for the administration of Components 2 and 3.

Even though the implementation of the Project experienced delays, at the time of its closing, the
agencies had achieved its objectives, met its targets and executed 97 percent of resources (the 3
percent of funds that were not disbursed reflects important changes in the currently exchange
rate, especially towards the end of the implementation of the Project).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. Some indicators of the first component were not fully defined and loosely
formulated. In addition, even when the definition of intermediate outcome indicators was more
adequate, the data collection instruments required to monitor progress were not always available
during implementation. The M&E would have benefitted from a more rigorous design, with clear
objectives, outcome and results indicators, and data collection mechanisms.

                                                 7
M&E Implementation. In addition to monitoring indicators, the Bank team closely supervised
the activities supported by the operation, as well as follow up on their use for policy design
and/or implementation and for agency coordination as measures of their impact. Throughout the
supervision, the Bank organized small workshops or seminars to review the findings of the
activities with the core actors of the relevant sector, with a view to ensure their use in policy
making.

M&E Utilization. While the Project document itself faced the limitations mentioned above, the
three implementing agencies continued their important efforts to increase their technical capacity
to monitor and evaluation the implementation of its social and labor reforms during the Project
period. Recently, the Inter-Institutional Evaluation Committee (supported by its secretariat in the
National Planning Department) has agreed on an agenda of evaluations. Half of this agenda
focuses on the social and labor programs under the MPS or the MEN, reflecting strong efforts by
these agencies to monitor and evaluate their programs. The results of some of these evaluations
have promoted discussions on a new wave of social and labor reforms which would address
problems identified by the evaluations related to the coverage of the pension system, the
alignment of health services package, and the expansion and qualification of early childhood
development services. Furthermore, the MPS has led important efforts to design an integrated
information system for social protection (articulated around the RUAF, a registry with all
beneficiaries of all social programs), which opens the door for greater articulation, coordination
and efficiency.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance.

The Project did not trigger any safeguards, so no safeguard policies applied.

Fiduciary Issues.

The implementing agencies (MPS, MEN and DNP respectively for Components 1, 2 and 3)
complied with the Bank's fiduciary requirements. The executing agencies maintained an
adequate internal control and accounting system. By June 30, 2009, the entities had committed
96 percent of the total resources, and effectively paid 97 percent of those commitments (the rest
was paid during the grace period). By the time of this report, the entities complied with all the
actions agreed during the last supervision mission performed during the first semester of 2009.
The final audit report was unqualified.

The high rotation in the project management team resulted in delays in the presentation of
procurement plans. Throughout the project, the Bank provided very intense hands-on support to
the management team, which allowed for the quick resolution of minor issues as they arose. Four
ex-post reviews were undertaken during the implementation of the Project, with satisfactory
results.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

                                                8
During the implementation of this Project, in 2006, the Government also requested the World
Bank to analyze informality in labor markets with a view to explore policy options for greater
workers' welfare and firm productivity. The results of the analysis were widely discussed at
high-level policy forums in Colombia, and some of the options proposed are currently
contemplated for the next wave of reforms.

In 2008, the World Bank has also developed a programmatic Non-Lending Technical Assistance
that focuses on helping the Government in designing selected elements of the various branches
of its social protection system ­ namely social promotion (targeted at the poorest), response to
the crisis, social insurance coverage, and labor markets. The program focuses mostly on the
reform areas covered by the Project reviewed in this document, revealing the continuity of
reform in the social and labor areas.

The Government has also requested support to further its evaluation agenda, through a Project on
Strengthening Public Information, Monitoring and Evaluation for Results Management, which
supports the design of institutional arrangements for the more systematic monitoring and
evaluation of key programs, as well as the implementation of a core national agenda of
evaluations (Ln. 7620).

Finally, during the fall of 2009, the Government of Colombia has requested the preparation of a
Development Policy Lending (DPL) operation in Social Protection. The operation is currently
under preparation. This operation's objectives follow directly from the efforts supported by the
Project in the area of the overall Social Protection System (its information systems, its targeting
mechanisms, its institutional articulation, etc.), the area of social assistance (support for the
integral strategy of the Red Juntos, and support more generally for improved targeting, increased
evaluations and greater efficiency of programs), the area of social insurance (support for the
harmonization of incentives in the social insurance sphere to address some of the fragmentation
of the labor markets and for more equitable health services), and the area of active labor market
policies (training and intermediation services in particular).

The DPL currently under preparation is part of a broader commitment by the World Bank to
support reforms in the social protection system and social sectors more generally, which will
comprise a mix of knowledge services, financial services, as well as strategy and coordination
services in the coming years. The exact mix will be defined in light of needs and capacity, and
each element would support the consolidation of earlier reforms and the design and
implementation of the next generation of reforms.

These requests highlight the value of the technical and financial assistance provided by the
World Bank to the Government of Colombia, and highlight the continuity in reforms in
Colombia over the past years.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

                                                9
The objectives, design and implementation of the Project were strategic for the implementation
of the reforms and their sustainability. These objectives remain highly relevant, as the
Government further consolidates the reforms supported by this Project and defines and
implements the next generation of reforms. In particular, the Government of Colombia is
currently promoting its strategy to address the situation of the extreme poor and displaced
population (Juntos strategy), which is anchored in the provision of preferential access to core
social services, and the articulation of these services. The reforms supported by this Project and
the resulting institutional strengths and arrangements, legal frameworks, and information
systems, are proving critical for the implementation of the strategy. More broadly, the
Government is currently designing and/or implementing reforms to its social insurance system
(pension and health) and to its training system, which continue to deepen the reforms supported
by this Project towards the goal of an integrated social protection system.

As mentioned earlier, this Project was requested by the Government of Colombia, and in
particular by the three implementing agencies, with a view to fill important analytical or
technical gaps identified during the first phase of implementation of the PLaRSSAL I. This
contributed to high degrees of ownership within the agencies, a critical element for the
successful implementation of Technical Assistance projects and for ensuring their relevance and
impact.

In terms of design, the Project components themselves were designed by the three implementing
agencies. All the activities supported by the Project were identified were consistent with the
reforms supported by the PLaRSSAL Program, and the complete match between the needs and
the activities ensured a very high relevance by the implementing agencies. The statement of
development objectives for each component was appropriate in term of the nature of the
activities of the Project.

Project design was complex, with three implementing agencies and numerous activities that
require coordination and collaboration. However, greater collaboration and coordination between
the three implementing agencies ­ the Ministry of Social Protection, the Ministry of Education,
and the National Planning Department ­ was one of the key objectives of this Project. Indeed,
many of the reforms of the broader social reform agenda, supported by the World Bank's
investment and policy loans, are "second-generation" reforms, which go beyond improvements
of specific programs and focus more broadly on building coordinated and integrated systems. In
such systems, one of the greatest challenges is the effective coordination of programs and
policies, which requires inter-agency collaboration.

The objectives of the Project are still are the core of the World Bank Country Partnership
Strategy, which supports the implementation of the National Development Plan (2006-2010)
through five areas of concentration including: peace, poverty alleviation and equity of
opportunity, sustained equitable growth, environmental sustainability, and good governance. The
objectives and reforms supported by this program are the cornerstones of the poverty and equity
pillar, as well as the good governance pillar as it relates to social sectors.




                                               10
Various elements developed under this Project also contribute directly to the ongoing
development of a Development Policy Loan (DPL) on Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and
Efficient Social Protection System (P106708), in particular in areas of targeting mechanisms,
information systems, the strengthening of institutions, the coordination of programs, the
financing of health insurance, and the promotion of active labor market policies.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project's objective was fully achieved in the three implementing agencies (Department of
National Planning, Ministry of Social Protection, and Ministry of Education) and the Project
played a critical role in strengthening the institutions and helping them design and implement
key reforms, which have paved the way for further policy actions and reforms in the social
protection, health and education sectors. The impacts of the Project and progress towards its
objectives are presented below for each component (additional details are presented in Annex 2).

In addition to the strengthening of the three implementing agencies, presented below, it is
important to note the impact of the Project in promoting greater collaboration and coordination
between the core agencies of social sectors in Colombia. As mentioned earlier, coordination is
critical for the success of second-generation reforms, which typically focus on the development
and/or consolidation of national systems, rather than specific programs. For instance, the Project
supported Government in building strong national systems that focus on developing a national
training system and promoting the national strategy for extreme poverty based on the joint
delivery of services to the most vulnerable groups. These systems require extensive
collaboration, coordination and harmonization across agencies, a very difficult task by definition.
The Project contributed to this coordination between agencies, in particular in the three
dimensions listed earlier in this paragraph.

The target for the key outcome indicator, "Increase in number of social/labor programs under
DNP, MPS, and MEN being systematically and rigorously monitored, evaluated and discussed
with the public for citizens' oversight and feedback from 3 to 13" was met (details on list of the
evaluations and their use are provided in Annex 2). The evaluations led to a series of reforms or
adjustments, ranging from the design of alternative schemes for the Conditional Cash Transfer
programs in urban areas, the institutionalization of the Jóvenes en Acción program, the reform of
the program for the elderly, and the closing of the program for labor support (PADE). The
Project played an important role in strengthening of the capacity of core actors to design
monitoring instruments or evaluation methods, even if it did not necessarily finance these
evaluations.

Component 1: To strengthen the MPS's capacity to implement a coherent social protection reform that
encompasses employment, training, health and social assistance for the poor and vulnerable.

Component 1, implemented by the MPS, fully achieved its objectives of strengthening the
capacity of the ministry to design and implement a coherent social protection system. The
diagnostics, analysis, information systems, instruments and draft regulations supported by the
Project were critical elements in the design and implementation of a series of key reforms in
training and labor markets, social insurance, social assistance and information systems. It also


                                                11
was critical in refining the understanding of remaining challenges and potential policy options.
This section presents a summary of achievements:

(A) In the area of training and other labor market policies, the Project contributed to the
    development and consolidation of the national training system, which suffered from low
    quality and lack of coordination and to the diagnostic that will form the basis for the
    implementation of a reform of the unemployment system. Within this reform agenda, the
    Project supported the:
    a. definition of the certification process for "high quality" training institutions and
         programs. This includes both the definition of a set of technical norms adopted by
         ICONTEC (the Colombian Institute for Technical Standards and Norms) and the
         definition of the institutional arrangements for the quality system, including the
         Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Protection, the national training institute
         (SENA) and ICONTEC;
    b. definition of standards for health professionals, a key element of the efforts by the
         Ministry of Social Protection to increase the quality of health services and reduce costs;
         and
    c. evaluation of the national unemployment subsidy program, for which the Government is
         currently exploring options for reform, as supported by the proposed DPL and the
         ongoing Non-Lending Technical Assistance.

(B) In the area of social assistance, the activities contributed to the design of options to broaden
    the coverage of social insurance (pensions) and to develop the Country's flagship social
    assistance program to reach the poorest and most vulnerable (Juntos strategy). In particular,
    the Project supported:
    a. A series of reforms to the solidarity pension fund, which had not been fulfilling
        expectations in terms of coverage.
    b. The development of options to broaden the coverage of the pension system through
        alternative mechanisms that would reach a larger share of the population. In particular,
        the activities supported by this Project included a series of analyses to explore options
        for a new program that would provide incentives for the poor to save for their old-age.
    c. The development of the methodology for the articulation of social protection services for
        the new Government flagship program to reduce poverty, the Juntos strategy, which
        provides family support and preferential access to services to the poorest families and
        the displaced population.

(C) In the area of financing mechanisms for the social protection system, the activities
    supported by this Project contributed to the design of a key set of policy reforms in the
    management of the public pension system. In particular, these include
    a. the consolidation of the providers of public pension into one single entity called
         Colpensiones and established through Law 1151 of 2007;
    b. the creation of a special unit attached to the Ministry of Finance for the resolution of
         pending cases of pension rights recognition and the supervision of the collection of
         social protection contributions.




                                                12
(D) In the area of regionalization of the social protection system, the activities supported by the
    Project provided the basis for the re-organization of the MPS, which would strengthen the
    Territorial Units of the Ministry and give them a much broader mandate of promotion of
    the Social Protection System, through decrees 1293 and 1294 of April 2009.

(E) Finally, in the area of monitoring and evaluation, the Project supported the design,
    implementation and analysis of the information system called the Integrated Contributions
    Payment System (PILA), which has become the unique entry point for the payment of
    contributions to social security (thereby replacing a series of over 20 payment processes for
    each worker, reducing transaction and financial costs for both employers and providers).


Objective of Component 2: To strengthen the Ministry of Education´s capacity to implement
education decentralization reforms mandated by Law 715, analyze primary and secondary
school integration and evaluate the school readiness of 5-year old children.

Component 2, implemented by the MEN, met its objective of strengthening the agency's
technical capacity, through the development of instruments to complete the implementation of
the ambitious reforms of decentralization of education services mandated by Law 715, the
evaluation of the implementation of the Law 715, and the evaluation of alternative school
organization/management schemes and the assessment of learning achievements for
preschoolers. In particular:

(A) The Project's activities led to the establishment of a stronger registry, with mechanisms to
    control the quality of schools' information systems. This new system was critical in the
    implementation of the targeting system decided by Law 715, which switched from transfers
    of education resources to the territorial entities based on the number of teachers, to
    transfers based on the actual number of students attending school and existing coverage
    gaps.

(B) The Project permitted the evaluation of the decentralization reform mandated by Law 715,
    which is currently under revision by the Government. The methodology used combined a
    series of tools and techniques, including a public expenditure tracking survey, facility
    surveys, and a series of longitudinal analysis using administrative data and household
    surveys. This assessment aimed at identifying potential bottlenecks or leakages in the
    education sector, assessing the criteria used to allocate resources; and evaluating existing
    incentives to increase of coverage and improve quality in the education sector.

(C) The Project validated the model of integration of primary and secondary schools, through
    the analysis of the impact of this integration on administrative and education quality. It
    revealed that the most successful schools were those who involved their educational
    community in deciding the objective of the school, allocation of resources, pedagogical
    strategy, and management rules. It also found positive results in students' performance, and
    helped the Ministry of Education accelerate the integration process focus its effort on
    increasing investments in inputs to improve quality.



                                                13
(D) Finally, the Project led to the development and implementation of the competency-based
    curriculum for children in the transition grade between pre-schools and primary school.
    This was developed on the basis of the diagnostic of the competencies of children entering
    pre-schools, the design of a testing tool to evaluate the basic skills of children in the
    transition grade, and the evaluation in 10 departments with 180 teachers and 4.200
    children.


Objective of Component 3: To strengthen the National Planning Department´s capacity for
institutionalizing periodic evaluation and monitoring of social programs for citizens' oversight
and feedback.

Component 3, implemented by DNP, reached its objective of strengthening the DNP's capacity
through the evaluation of the implementation of the Law 715 and through the definition of
mechanisms for greater social control. In particular:

(A) The Project contributed to the evaluation of the implementation of the decentralization law
    in the sectors of health and education. The decentralization law of 2001 (Law 715)
    implemented the shift reflected in the 1991 Constitution, which promotes greater autonomy
    for local governments in the management of resources, a focus on results- or outputs-based
    management, as well as a stronger system for the monitoring and evaluation of results and
    impacts. The objective was to evaluate the extent to which this radical reform has had
    positive impacts on human development outcomes, as well as on the quality, efficiency and
    governance of service provision. As part of a broader evaluation effort, the Project
    supported the development of the methodology, which combined a series of quantitative
    and qualitative tools, and the implementation of the public expenditure survey, one of the
    tools of analysis. The Bank also provided extensive technical assistance during project
    implementation to help the Government in the design of the methodology, with the support
    from one of the leading world experts in this area. The main findings of the analysis have
    just been finalized and the Government is preparing recommendations for potential
    adjustments to the reform.

(B) The Project, along with support provided by the Bank through the preparation and
    implementation of its Project on Strengthening Public Information, Monitoring and
    Evaluation for Results Management (Ln. 7620), contributed to the development of results-
    based management, transparency and accountability through the design and
    implementation of a series of tools for social oversight. This included the development and
    implementation of the SIGOB information system that provide updates on Government's
    goals and progress, as well as the design and implementation of a perception survey to be
    repeated in 2009. It also included support to the "Colombia Leader" initiative to lead
    regular civil society sessions and the annual mayoral award.


3.3 Efficiency




                                              14
Since the Project consists exclusively of technical assistance, no efficiency calculation was
made. However, the benefits from the activities supported by the Project are expected to be
substantial. The benefits include improved coverage, equity and efficiency of core social
programs through a more agile social protection system, a series of systems for the management
of social programs, and through an improved system of transfer of resources to local level
governments for the delivery of basic social services. The actual implementation of the various
reforms informed or designed with the support of the Project's activities during the recent years,
and the ongoing efforts to continue the implementation of the ambitious reform program in social
                                                                              5
protection, show that the funds contributed to a series of sustainable changes .

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the proposed rating for the overall outcome of the Project is Satisfactory because its
objectives continue to be highly relevant and it has achieved its major objectives efficiently.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The objective of this Project was to strengthen the ability of core social agencies (the MPS which
covers both health and social protection, the MEN, and the DNP) to implement a series of social
and labor reforms. These labor and social reforms were expected to have large social impacts6.
This Project contributed to these broader impacts. In particular,

    ·   An increase in child well-being through attention to early-childhood development at the
        municipal level, both in terms of municipal policies as well as through improved
        allocation of resources to municipalities with the greatest early childhood development
        needs.
    ·   Greater coverage of social protection programs through the creation of the information
        systems for Social Protection contributions, which is inter-operable with the broader
        information platform that allows to identify those who are eligible for but not receiving
        benefits and to redirect resources toward those most in need
    ·   Greater quality of public programs through information and public feedback to enhance
        policy-making



5
  These efforts have benefitted, and continue to benefit from World Bank support through the Social Sector
Adjustment Loan Project (Ln 7134), PLaRSSAL I (Ln. 7193), PLaRSSAL II (Ln. 7259), new Colombia DPL on
Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System (P106708), and the upcoming Colombian
Strengthening Social Protection I NLTA (P114558).

6
  These are presented in details in the Implementation Completion Report of the series of operations supporting
reforms in these areas ­ICR for the Series of Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loans I
& II and a Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan III. (Report: ICR0000522).


                                                      15
·   Increased labor market access, earnings ability, and general well-being of Colombia's
    future adults from an increase in education quality and quantity
·   Greater labor market earnings and lower unemployment through improved National Job
    Training System




                                         16
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional changes and capacity strengthening are the core objectives of the Project. Results in
this dimension were presented in Section 3.2 of this document, describing outcomes. In addition
to each agency's institutional strengthening, an important outcome of the project highlighted
earlier is the increased coordination of core actors in the area of social protection ­ an essential
element for the switch from a series of un-coordinated programs to the development of a national
system within which programs contribute to a national strategy and are coordinated or integrated.
The Project and the technical assistance provided by the Bank team throughout its
implementation were critical in bringing actors together on critical issues.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low or Negligible

The assessment of risk to development outcome in the Project is negligible to low. Indeed, the
objectives of the Project are all still fully aligned with the operating environment in Colombia.
Ownership by Government and other stakeholders is very high.

In addition, the design and implementation of a series of information systems (the various
systems of the SISPRO, many of which supported by the Project) and management systems
(such as the national targeting system SISBEN) and the institutionalization of many of the
decisions further reduce the risks to the various development outcomes of the Project.

Finally, the Bank continues to support the implementation of key reforms, both through
knowledge and financial assistance. In particular, the Bank is currently preparing a DPL which
supports a series of policies and reforms that deepen the reforms supported by this Project. The
Bank is also providing the Government with on-going technical assistance through a Non-
lending Technical Assistance program covering the thematic areas supported by this Project.

The continued progress in the areas supported by this Project ­ in terms of central information
systems, national training system, pension, health insurance, and the strategy to address the
situation of the extreme poor among others ­ underline the continuity of reforms and the low risk
to the development outcome. The ongoing dialogue with the Bank continues to promote the
further integration of analytical findings into the design of the next generation of reforms.




                                                17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is evaluated as satisfactory for the
following reasons. The Bank had long been providing assistance to social protection and related
areas in Colombia, via substantial analytical work and investment and adjustment lending, and
this is reflected in the quality of background analysis and the relevance of the activities
supported by the Project (as measured by the actual implementation of the resulting
recommendations). The Bank's support for project preparation was broad-based, incorporating
needed expertise and several staff and consultants with experience in the various areas of
support. On technical aspects, the Project incorporated the lessons from a Structural Adjustment
Loan and a Development Policy Loan in the sector, as well as a series of investment loans
supporting the core social protection program. There were no shortcomings in the preparation of
the project, and as a result the suggested rating is satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons.

·   First, the team focused on development impact, reporting regularly the performance on
    indicators, including key outcomes. Close attention was paid to the results of the operation.
    The team provided extensive technical assistance to the Government teams, providing inputs
    to all TORs for all the activities financed by the Project, reviewing all products from a
    technical perspective, organizing ad-hoc seminars to provide feedback on selected pieces,
    and providing comments and suggestions in all sectors.
·   Second, the Bank established a multi-thematic team for the various components ­ health,
    education, social protection ­ calling upon world experts for specific themes to ensure high
    quality supervision and parallel technical assistance.
·   Third, in addition to the technical inputs, the Bank organized an intense supervision process,
    with 10 ISRs prepared between December 2004 and June 2009 (one every 6 months), which
    intensified towards the end of the Project and as necessary when issues arose to avoid impact
    on implementation. This was further promoted by well-coordinated transitions in its internal
    staffing for task management to avoid a detrimental impact on its supervision of the Project
    and the technical assistance that it provided to the client in that process. The placement in the
    field of a highly qualified consultant experienced with the various government institutions
    and actors, and with social programs, also facilitated ongoing dialogue and supervision.




                                                 18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Taking into account the detailed ratings in Bank performance, overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower's performance is considered satisfactory, from preparation through completion.
From the earliest phase of project preparation, the Government has provided strong leadership in
the area of social protection, to which it accords high priority. Project objectives were closely
aligned to the goals of the National Development Plan. The Government also continued to give
priority more broadly to their national agenda for monitoring and evaluation. Overall, the
activities supported by this Project have fed into the Country's reform agenda in social sectors.
For instance, it has informed the development of the national training system now under full
implementation, the development of the national network for the reduction of extreme poverty
(Juntos) currently implemented in 80 percent of Colombia's municipalities, the inputs for the
forthcoming national policies for unemployment and human capital formation, elements for the
pension reform which was decided in 2009 (Colpensiones and UGPP), the adoption and
implementation of reforms in education. Many of the reforms of this next generation are
currently supported by the World Bank's forthcoming DPL.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the implementing agencies is evaluated as Satisfactory. The three
agencies implementing this Project were highly committed to its objectives, as the activities were
designed precisely to help them build knowledge and tools for the implementation of their
planned reforms. This commitment is reflected in the achievement of all the objectives set out in
the Project and the implementation of all planned activities. In addition, the three agencies have
continued in the implementation of its core reforms, integrating the findings, lessons and tools
supported by this Project. While the team required an extension to the Project to fully implement
the activities, this came mostly about because of the change in the structure of project
management, with the elimination of a specific project implementation unit (PIU) and the
mainstreaming of project management within the Ministry of Social Protection. The
internalization of the Project was an important change, which promotes greater sustainability of
the reforms and greater integration of the Project within the broader reform agenda.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

                                               19
The Overall Borrower Performance is considered Satisfactory, in view of the Government and
the Implementing Agencies' performance.


6. Lessons Learned

The team learned a series of lessons from its engagement with the Government in Colombia in
the social sectors, including from the design and implementation of the Project under analysis. In
particular:

·   Promoting greater coordination is critical to second-generation reforms that seek to develop
    systems (rather than programs). Though efforts to bring different actors together, promote
    collaboration, and develop the mechanisms to institutionalize coordination and
    harmonization are extremely time consuming, they are critical to the success of reforms that
    aim at building national systems rather than improving individual programs. The Bank's
    ability to bring actors together, and bridge existing divides, is an important factor for success
    in the implementation of ambitious reforms to national systems. This ability is greatly
    enhanced by the engagement of the Bank through different instruments (SIL, DPL, TA).
·   For institutional reforms, the difficulty mostly resides in the reforms' implementation, rather
    than in their design or adoption. When reforms aim at bringing institutions to coordinate and
    articulate the provision of services, the greatest hurdles typically lie in the actual
    implementation of the reforms. Indeed, getting institutions to agree to a model might be
    within easy reach, but ensuring they effectively do implement it is much more complex, as
    incentives typically need to be re-aligned.
·   The implementation of core reforms to the national training system takes many years,
    reflecting the complexity of the area. The development of a national training system, with
    numerous operators in the private sector, requires the definition of a common framework, but
    also the adoption of this framework as the regulatory norms for actors in the sector. Reforms
    in this area have been slow, but very significant progress has been made. A slower pace
    might have been key to ensuring full ownership.
·   Constant engagement with the client is important via a rich technical dialogue and varied
    portfolio. The multi-sectoral team worked with the Government in a wide range of lending
    and non-lending activities, which facilitated the preparation of the Project in two key ways.
    First, the Government and Bank teams developed a good working relationship over many
    years. Second, the Bank team, through this continued relationship was well versed in the
    objectives, strategies, results-management, and outputs of the social sectors, allowing for a
    greater focus on strategy and implementation in the development of the program.
·   A commitment by the clients to implement a well-designed Government program. The
    National Development Plan defined each social institution's strategic objectives, thereby
    providing a base upon which to design the Bank's program. The social institutions were
    committed to implementing the strategies and meeting the quantifiable targets and saw the
    value added of Bank support in the design, implementation, and evaluation of the strategy.


                                                 20
·   A strong program of analytical work and dialogue is crucial to underpin the operation. The
    program focused on policy and strategy, which required knowledge about Colombia and
    experiences elsewhere to help operationalize the strategies. The Bank's knowledge was a
    crucial input to the more innovative strategies that the Government implemented, particularly
    in the areas of social protection, labor reform, training, M&E, health financing, and education
    service delivery to hard-to-reach populations.
·   A large Bank team with varied skills is necessary in a broad and complex operation. The
    team consisted of economists, operations experts, and sectoral specialists from a wide range
    of sectors. This mix of skills allowed for quality work with the clients on defining and
    advancing the sectoral strategies, but also for cross-fertilization between sectors. The results
    were a more cohesive strategy that was not organized according to Bank silos and the Bank
    team's contribution to encouraging partnerships across line Ministries.
·   Strong coordinating institution on the Government's side is necessary when many agencies
    are involved in the operation. While the Bank team worked with the three implementing
    agencies, and while one of the institutions took the leadership in the coordination of the
    Project and the reporting, the coordination revealed to be relatively difficult.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Government's comments on a draft of this ICR were incorporated and reflected in the final
document. Annex 5 presents the Government report on the completion of the Project in its
integrality in Spanish. Two sections have been translated into English, as they present additional
information not contained in the main text of this ICR. They are presented below:

       "Evaluation of the World Bank's role:

       During the design phase (satisfactory). In terms of the design, the Bank did not provide specific
       suggestions to improve the design. However, the support and advice of the Bank were important
       for the elaboration of Terms of Reference and the review of the outputs for the activities planned
       during the implementation of the Project.

       Lessons learned:

       The implementation and institutionalization of the Project took a long time, because they implied
       in some cases decisions by the national Government. Although the technical implementation of
       the Project was quite satisfactory, the institutionalization in the Ministry of Social Protection and
       the sector called for the elaboration of consensus and norms, which require significant time."


(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A
                                                   21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                                                            Percentage
                                                                            Appraisal
 Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                                   Actual             of
                                                                            Estimate
                                                                                                            Appraisal

 Component 1. Technical Assistance to MPS
 1.A. Training and active labor market policies                                162,196        256,931            158%
 1.B. Improve social assistance programs                                       274,274        322,251            117%
 1.C. Social Protection System Finance Model                                   165,066        125,016             76%
 1.D. Regional Dimension                                                       198,274         33,863             17%
 1.E. Monitoring and Evaluation System for MPS.                                258,649        177,079             68%
 Total Component 1                                                           1,058,459        915,140             86%

 Component 2- Technical Assistance to MEN
 2.A. Improving enrollment data                                                250,000        313,322            125%
 2.B. Study of impact, use, cost of the Transfer System                        120,000         64,787             54%
 2.C.Improving education efficiency and quality through integration             40,000         20,605             52%
 2 D. Improving coverage and efficiency of pre-school education                 40,000         54,035            135%
 Total Component 2                                                             450,000        452,749            101%

 Component 3- Technical Assistance to DNP
 3.A. Improving revenue sharing transfer system                                310,000        317,358            102%
 3.B. Improving the social control system (SCS)                                140,000         88,927             64%
 Total Component 3                                                             450,000        406,285             90%

  Administrative costs*                                                         41,541          158,869          397%
  Total                                                                     2,000,000        1,933,043        97%
Note: *The actual administrative costs for the projects were around US$160,000 (around 8 percent of the total loan
amount), almost 4 times the initially planned administrative costs (US$40,000). The initial costs were largely under-
estimated for two main reasons: (1) Changes in the structure for the administration of the Project. The initial plan
was that the coordination, administration, accounting and financial management for the Project would be undertaken
by the unit in charge of implementing an existing operation with the IADB in the Ministry of Social Protection. In
May 2006, as the IADB project closed, the Project had to set up its own project implementation group and to cover
its costs, which had not been anticipated at the time of the design of the Project. (2) In addition, in August 2007, the
Government requested an extension of the Project for an additional 18 months in order to complete the activities
supported under component 1 and 3, led by the Ministry of Social protection and the National Planning Department.
This required the allocation of additional resources for the administration of the Project. All the additional
administrative costs were covered by the Ministry of Social Protection, through three reclassification processes, as
reported in the ISRs. At the time of the change in implementation arrangements and of extension of the Project, the
Ministry of Education had already committed all its resource. For the DNP, the variation in exchange rates over time
did not allow the institution to contribute to these administrative costs.

(b) Financing
                                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of Co-                                    Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                        Estimate       Estimate
                                                  financing                                       Appraisal
                                                                 (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                        0.00           0.00           .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                 2.00              0.00               .00
and Development

                                                          22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This annex provides details on the outputs and results of each component of this Project. It
focuses on presenting the results of each activity, as well as the steps which the Government has
taken as a result of the findings.

Before turning to each component, the following Table summarizes the evaluations presented as
evidence of the increase in the number of programs under DNP, MPS, and MEN being
monitored, evaluated, and discussed with the public (PDO indicator).

PROGRAMS                          SECTOR              TYPE OF       TYPE OF POLICY DECISION
                                                      EVALUATION    IMPLEMENTED
DNP-MPS
1. Familias en Acción in rural    Social Protection   Impact        Expansion of coverage
   areas
2. Empleo en Acción               Social Protection   Impact        Lesson learned. Program was
                                                                    completed.
3.   Jóvenes en Acción            Social Protection   Impact        Institutionalization of program in
                                                                    SENA
4.   Hogares Comunitarios         Social Protection   Impact        Proposal to expand alternatives
     (ICBF program)                                                 childcare schemes, updating of the
                                                                    pedagogic material and
                                                                    implementation of nutritional
                                                                    schemes adapted to each region.
5.   Desayunos Infantiles (ICBF   Social Protection   Impact
     Program)-Monitoring growth
6.   Vivienda de Interés Social   Housing             Impact        Creation of a new component for the
     (Ministry of Environment)                                      program, focusing on neighborhood
                                                                    development and titling.
7.   Familias en Acción for the   Social Protection   Impact        Permanent inscription and expansion
     displaced population                                           of coverage.
8.   Program for labor support    Social Protection   Executive     Program closed because of low
     (PADE)                                                         execution due to design issues
                                                                    (amount, duration, criteria).
9.   National Training System     Social Protection   Executive     Identification of need to develop a
     (SNFT)                       Education                         framework to articulate actors and
                                                                    coordinate activities in this sector.
10. Programs for elderly poor     Social Protection   Executive     Reform of criteria for eligibility
    (PPSAM ­ PNAM)                                                  (CONPES 105/ 2007 and CONPES
                                                                    3560/2009)
11. System of revenue transfers   Social Protection   PETS          In progress
    in health
12. Food security network         Social Protection   Executive     Program found to operate well.
    (ReSA)
13. Strategy to reduce extreme    Social Protection   Operational   Adjustments to operational manual,
    poverty Juntos                                                  development of methodological
                                                                    guidance.
DNP-MEN



                                                      23
14. System of revenue transfers    Social Protection   Impact      In progress
    in education                   Education
15. Audit of school enrolment      Education           Executive   Recommendation Elderly Plan. In
    information systems                                            progress dialogue for loan operation
Component 1: Technical Assistance for MPS (US$1.1 million).

The Social Protection Component covered five key areas: (A) labor market policies; (B) social
assistance; (C) Social Protection System financial model; (D) regional dimensions of the SPS;
and (E) monitoring and evaluation systems. The most relevant achievement are presenting
below.

(A) Active Labor Policies.

This subcomponent aimed at strengthening the Social Protection Ministry in its capacity to
promote and regulate the labor market trough: (i) the development of norms and tools, and
implementation of institutional arrangements for the National Job Training System; (ii) the
review of the institutional arrangements for the unemployment subsidy program in order to
identify options to improve their design and effectiveness; and (iii) a review of the institutional
arrangements for the programs of wage subsidy and unemployment subsidy, to identify options
to improve their design and effectiveness.

(i)       Development of norms and tools, and implementation of institutional arrangement for the
          National Job Training System.

In 2002-2003, labor market analysis highlighted that some supply-side factors partly explained
employment status. In particular, specific groups (youth and women) tended to have difficulty
finding employment as a result of their low level of skills. This situation prevailed despite a large
and well-funded public job training program. Analysis showed that the training "programs are
not targeted to the poor, who most lack human capital, and the demand for job training is much
larger, with more than 60 percent of job training services provided by the unregulated private
sector, and another 20 percent provided through other public programs"7.

The analysis also questioned the quality of public training programs, and there were claims by
employers and workers that publicly-provided job training programs were increasingly unable to
provide competencies in emerging industries. A study led by the Government and the World
Bank concluded that an efficient and effective national skills formation system requires a level
playing field among the public and private providers based on quality conditions. Thus, in 2004,
the Government defined the path for a comprehensive job training system, presented in the
document 81 of the National Council of Economic and Social Policy (CONPES, 2004). The
CONPES document defined the elements of a national, comprehensive, job training system,
which would provide a common framework for public and private job training institutions, on
the basis of a set of common norms and standards.



7
    Project document PLaRSSALL II (Ln. 7259).


                                                       24
The proposal for the National Job Training System included the following elements: a) a job
training commission; b) the accreditation system for training programs and institutions; c)
guidelines and regulations for the functioning of the system; and d) an information system to
register programs and institutions, and monitor their quality relevance.

During the early sessions, the Job Training Commission identified the need to develop criteria
and norms to evaluate the quality of programs as one of the main challenges to the
implementation of National Job Training System. The Project supported the hiring of experts to
design a proposal for the quality-certification system for training courses and institutions, as well
as draft the legal documents for its creation and implementation. By 2006, the Ministry of Social
Protection enacted Decree 2020, which provides the legal basis for the creation of the System for
the Management of the Quality of Job Training Institutions (Sistema de Gestión de la Calidad
para Instituciones de Formación para el Trabajo, SCAFT). The SCAFT has four elements: the
Commission of quality of the training system, responsible for the definition of the regulatory and
legal decisions of the system; the Sectoral Committees, in charge of the definition of the quality
norms of each sector; the evaluating institution, responsible for the verification of compliance
with quality norms; and the Technical Secretary, in charge of the operation and coordination of
the system. Between 2006 and 2007, a set of technical quality norms were defined and adopted,
which define the standards for the "quality-certification" of institutions and courses. At the date,
circa 100 entities have initiated the process to obtain their "quality-certification".

Complementarily, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Social Protection defined a
set of minimum standards and requirements for all training programs and institutions, and jointly
designed the national registry for all training programs and institutions. Information on courses
and institutions is verified and uploaded into the registry by local Education Secretaries, which
have received specific training to implement this task. At the date of preparation of this report
there were around 1,000 entities and 2,000 programs registered, which represent around 35
percent of all the entities and programs that initially registered at the time of the preparation of
CONPES 81 in 2004.

The challenges to consolidate the system are numerous, in addition to the full implementation of
the registry and "quality-certification" processes. In particular, the Government is currently
developing mechanism to assess labor market needs in terms of skills to better guide the
development of training courses, and seeking options to improve the efficiency and quality of
existing programs.

(ii)   Development of options to increase the efficiency and quality of health services an
       improved human resources policy:

The Social Protection Ministry, which is also in charge of the health sector, identified the need
for the regulation of some aspects of the health labor market, in order to guarantee the quality,
relevance and financial sustainability of health service provision.

To respond to this need, the Project supported activities to develop these norms and draft the
relevant regulations. During the implementation of the Project, the Ministry of Social Protection
prepared Law 1164, enacted in 2007, that regulates the standards of quality for the formation of

                                                 25
human resources in the health sector, the measures of performance of health professionals, the
code of ethics for health professionals, and the mechanisms to control and supervise the quality
of health professionals and their performance.

In addition, through the activities financed by the Project, the Ministry of Social Protection
enacted a series of decrees for the application of the law, including decrees related to the
conditions for the practice of medicine, the mechanisms for the election of the members of the
health human resources commission, and the scheme to provide incentives that promote equity in
the geographic distribution of health professionals.

(iii)   Review of the institutional arrangements for the unemployment subsidy program in order
        to identify options to improve their design and effectiveness:

Under this sub-program, with support from the Project, the Ministry of Social Protection
analyzed the unemployment subsidy program. In particular, the analysis reviewed the program's
consistency with broader labor market policies (and the extent to which it provides specific
incentives), its role in terms of social insurance; and its financial sustainability.

The main findings from the study suggested reforming the unemployment program in the
following ways: (a) changes in the level and duration of the benefit, (b) targeting of the program
to promote formality, and (c) articulation of the program with training programs and labor
intermediation services. In terms of funding, the analysis proposes to articulate this program with
the program for severance payments, and to design a payment scheme that provides incentives
for the efficient implementation of the program.

Finally, the Ministry of Social Protection built a general equilibrium model to simulate the
financial implications of a transition from a scheme of unemployment subsidies to a scheme of
unemployment insurance. This will feed into the ongoing discussions within the Government on
options to develop a more comprehensive set of unemployment services.

(B) Social Assistance

The activities supported by the Project under this sub-component aimed at identifying options to
increase the coverage, efficiency and impact of social assistance programs for vulnerable groups.
This included: (i) the modification of criteria to benefit from cross-subsidies to enter the formal
pension system, (ii) the design of a mechanism to expand old-age income security to the poor
through a long-term savings program; and (iii) the design of options to strengthen the articulation
of social assistance programs for the extreme poor.

(i)     Modification of criteria to benefit from cross-subsidies to enter the formal pension
        system:

In 1993, the solidarity pension fund (Fondo de Solidaridad Pensional, FSP) was created, with a
view to subsidize the contributions of low-income workers, in order to help them enter the public
defined-benefit pension scheme. The idea was to help those that have contributed to the system



                                                26
over a long period, but are not able to fully meet the contribution criteria, to enter the formal
system.

After several years of implementation, and adjustments in the rules, the number of beneficiaries
of the program remained very low. By 2007, the total numbers of affiliates receiving subsidies
from the solidarity pension fund was around 200,000. According to the administrator, this
number represented about 90 percent of the eligible population, and the program did not suffer
from any significant drop out, as about 90 percent of those in the program kept contributing.

The Project supported analysis, led by the Ministry of Social Protection, which showed that the
number of potential beneficiaries for the solidarity pension fund was indeed very small, mainly
because of the restrictions of the program in terms of age, and the requirement in terms of the
minimum number of weeks during which the worker previously contributed to the main pension
system.

The Government amended the criteria for the pension solidarity fund through Decree 3771 and
CONPES No.105, both in 2007. This reduced the numbers of required weeks of contribution
prior to access to the subsidy from 650 to 500 weeks, and increased the duration of the subsidy
from 500 to 750 weeks. The new regulation also created the option to suspend temporally the
subsidy when the contributors experience higher payment capacity or when they lose their
capacity to pay their share of the contributions.

The initial results of this new regulatory remark show a small increase in the number of
affiliated, with about 30,000 new poor persons affiliated during 2007-2008. The government is
still monitoring the coverage of this fund to explore options for reforms to expand its coverage or
reform its design.




(ii)   Design of a mechanism to expand old-age income security to the poor through a long-
       term savings program:

The low level of coverage by the old-age pension systems has been a core concern in Colombia,
which experiences very low levels of coverage, considering its level of economic development.

                                                27
Some of the core issues which limit the expansion of system are the inflexibilities of the labor
market and pension systems. In particular, the minimum pension is pegged to the minimum
wage, which has been set at relatively high levels by regional standards. This forces the pension
system to only include workers who have relatively high earnings in the formal sector.

While changes in broader labor market policies are explored, the Government has initiated its
analysis of other options to expand the coverage of old-age pensions to low-income workers. The
Project supported activities for the design of a proposal, called the Periodic Economic Benefits
(Beneficios Económicos Periódicos, BEPs), which would be targeted at workers who have some
capacity to save over the long term, but do not have regular earnings, are not in the formal sector,
or have wages that are too low to contribute to the existing pension system. This program would
mostly function as a program that provides an instrument for long-term savings for old-age, as
well as incentives to establish a pattern of regular savings, and which converts accumulated
savings into an annuity at retirement. According to simulations made by the Ministry of Social
Protection, the BEPs could provide an annuity of almost half the minimum wage (which is also
the minimum pension) and could benefit about 6.4 million Colombians.

To prepare the legal framework for a potential BEPs program, the Government has enacted two
decrees (2060 in 2008 and 1800 in 2009) to allow people who work less than full time to
contribution (typically domestic or agricultural workers). In the coming months, the
Government, including the Ministry of Social Protection, the National Planning Department and
the Ministry of Finance, will continue to explore options for the implementation of programs that
promote the expansion of coverage of insurance programs for old-age income risks.


(iii)   Design of options to strengthen the articulation of social assistance programs for the
        extreme poor:

In 2006, the Government of Colombia established the Social Protection Network to Overcome
Extreme Poverty, the Juntos strategy, as the mechanism to reduce extreme poverty. The main
objectives of Juntos are to contribute to improving the living conditions of extremely poor
families, ensure these families have access to basic social services, and ensure social services are
adapted to their specific needs. About 15 public agencies have joined the Juntos strategy. In the
sector of Social Protection, all public agencies providing social protection services, including the
Ministry of Social Protection, now form part of the Juntos strategy. Hence, one of the first
challenges of the Ministry of Social Protection in its role in Juntos was to define mechanisms to
evaluate the relevance of the different entities' social protection programs in term of targeting,
access to the poorest, relevance of the services, and allocation of budget.

The Project supported this effort by financing activities aimed at developing an inventory of
social assistance programs. The objective of the inventory was to create a mechanism to
articulate social protection programs (and monitor that articulation) in the implementation of the
Juntos strategy. The inventory included information on a series of characteristics for each
program, which permitted to evaluate the degree of articulation between programs managed by
central and local governments; to assess the challenges for the articulation of programs both at



                                                28
the central and at the local levels; and to propose mechanisms for the allocation of resources for
each of these programs.

The outputs supported by the Project contributed to the development of a methodology for the
articulation of services for the Juntos beneficiaries, both at the local and central levels and to the
design of the information and monitoring system that will be used to monitor progress. The
Government is currently finalizing the design of these elements, under the leadership of its
Juntos Executive Committee, headed by the Ministry of Social Protection.


(C) Social Protection System financing mechanisms

The objective of this sub-component was to provide inputs for the design of financing
mechanisms that will ensure the sustainability of the overall Social Protection System, and in
particular its social insurance components (health and pension in particular). The options
developed with support from this Project included transformations that aimed at increasing the
efficiency of social insurance system and options aimed at increasing their financial
sustainability.

In particular, recommendations from activities supported by this Project, concerned the
reengineering of the institutional arrangements for the pension system, to seek greater efficiency,
ensure more transparency and reduce the number of court cases related to pension claims.

By 2007, the Government identified that the lack of consistency between pension agencies, in
terms of criteria that define the entitlement to a pension and the nature of that pension were
creating major bottlenecks in the system. In particular, the number of court challenges related to
pension rights has increased dramatically, which has paralyzed the system and created important
liabilities.

In order to promote greater integration of administrative records, limit the diversity in the
interpretation of pension rules, and reduce the number of cases of fraud and corruption, the
Government adopted a series of reforms. In particular, Law 1151 of 2007 established the
integration of the entities that operate the public pension system into a new entity called
Colpensiones. It also established the need to liquidate the main agencies managing the public
pension system (Cajanal, Caprecom and the part of the Social Security Institute that administers
pensions). The Government has initiated the process with the liquidation of Cajanal and the
transfer of its members to the Social Security Institute (later to be transferred to Colpensiones
when the institution is functioning) through Decree 2196 of June 2009 and with the definition of
proposal for an administrative structure and staffing for Colpensiones in September 2009.

Furthermore, in order to proceed with the recognition of pension rights, which is heavily back-
loaded due to court litigation and inefficient management, and increase the efficiency in the
management of contributions, the Government has established the basis for the creation of a
special unit responsible for overseeing the computation and collection of contributions (Law
1151 of 2007). The UGPP (Unidad Administrativa Especial de Gestión Pensional y
Contribuciones Parafiscales de la Protección Social) is created in the ambit of the Ministry of

                                                 29
Finance and will have administrative autonomy and independent patrimony. Amongst its
function, it would carry out the recognition of pension rights arising from members of pension
schemes that will close in the broader consolidation process. Decree 169 of January 2008
established the UGPP's functions. The Government has finalized the technical study proposing a
structure for the UGPP in October 2009 and is preparing the decree that will define its internal
structure and staffing.

(D) Promoting the Social Protection System at the regional level

To advance towards a comprehensive Social Protection system, one of the key challenges is to
integrate and improve the coordination of social insurance and assistance programs. Since circa
60 percent of public social spending is executed at the local level, any progress requires a
strategy to promote and articulate the social protection programs between the national and local
levels. Thus, the Project included a subcomponent to design arrangements for the promotion of
an integrated social protection system at the local level. The activities undertaken and their
outputs include:

(i)    The proposal of a monitoring system of the territorial social councils to be operated by
       Territorial Social Protection Unities:

This monitoring system would promote more technical interlocution and articulation between the
Ministry of Social Protection and local level governments (both at the regional and municipal
levels) for the design and implementation of social protection programs. The study supported by
this Project found that the dialogue between policymakers from different governmental levels
needs to be strengthened and systematized to improve the promotion of the Social Protection
System at the local level.

(ii)   The plan to strengthen the Territorial Units of the Ministry of Social Protection:

The activity supported by this Project included the identification of the roles which the
Territorial Units of the Ministry of Social Protection could play to further consolidate the
development of social protection systems at the local level. Earlier efforts, supported by the
World Bank, led to the development of regulations to govern the new functions of the ministries
and its affiliated entities and design adequate information systems, and, more generally, foster
the development of a national policy and strategy for the Social Protection System.

Most of these efforts, though, were concentrated at the central level, and the local branches of the
Ministry of Social Protection played a very limited role in the implementation of the broader
national Social Protection strategy. Their activities were mostly limited to inspections of working
conditions in local firms.

Following the broader effort to strengthen the Social Protection System, the Government is in the
process of reorganizing the Ministry of Social Protection by empowering its Territorial Agencies
to promote the social protection system in general. The government issued Decrees 1293 and
1294 in April 2009, which set new mandate for the Territorial Agencies of the Ministry of Social
Protection and creates new positions, respectively. Resolutions 2776, 2779 and 2605 allocate the

                                                30
staff across regions, modify the manual of functions, and create the working groups at the
national and local levels respectively.




                                           31
(E) Monitoring and Evaluation system

The objective of this sub-component was to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation system for
the programs under the Ministry of Social Protection. One of the main challenges faced by
monitoring system in the Social Protection sector was the lack of ability to keep track of
beneficiaries, their benefits, and their contributions over time. To respond to this need, the
government developed a strategy to consolidate a database that would track the payment of
contributions and reduce the cost transactions associated with social protection payment.

In consequence, the project financed activities to design and support the implementation of the
Integrated Contributions Payment System (Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes, PILA),
the information system that allows the definition and payment of all payroll contributions;
defining its legal framework; and designing a set of indicators to monitor its implementation and
functioning.

Before this system, employers had to fill in about twenty formats for each employee to fulfill the
process of payment of social protection contributions. Each social protection program had a
different format. The process implied many bank's transactions, which significantly increased
the associated transaction costs. Finally, the complex and fragmented process made it very
difficult to consolidate and update administrative registers to monitor contributions, the flow of
funds, and entitlements.

The PILA is an electronic platform that integrates the payment of contributions into one single
process, thereby reducing transaction costs, facilitating the process, and consolidating
information to monitor contributions and entitlements. The PILA is managed by operators which
receive and process the payments and send the information to contributors, the Ministry of Social
Protection Ministry and the administrators of the various funds and programs (health insurance,
pension, etc.).

The process of implementation started in 2006. Initially, the PILA only included employees of
large firms. It then gradually included smaller firms, helping those that needed it to learn to use
the system. In July 2008, a dramatic step was taken, when the system's mandatory use was
extended to self-employed workers. Finally, the last exceptions were removed in the Spring of
2009. In August 2009, the system included about 8,660,000 individuals, which represents a
significant increase from the level of 6,810,000 in July 2008, considering most new additions are
single-person enterprises, rather than large enterprises with numerous employees. The graphic
below show the evolution in the implementation process of the PILA, the electronic sheet started
with about 3 million of users during 2006 to August of 2009, the system had 8.5 users paying
their contributions to Social Protection System.




                                                32
                           Numbers of contributors using PILA (2006-2009)




Source: PILA MPS, data to 31th August 2009.

The activities supported by the project in this sub-component complement activities supported by
a component of the Social Safety Net Project (Ln. 7337-CO) approved in 2005, as well as
activities supported by the preparation of the Project for the Strengthening of Public Information,
Monitoring and Evaluation for Results Management (Ln 7620-C0) approved in 2008, and its
implementation. So, while the activities focus mostly on the Ministry of Social Protection, they
are part of a much broader effort by the Government to promote evidence and results-based
policy making, greater transparency, and social control.


Component 2: Technical Assistance to the MEN (US$450,000).

Component 2, implemented by the Ministry of Education, aimed at strengthening the agency's
technical capacity, through the development of instruments to complete the implementation of
the ambitious reforms of decentralization of education services mandated by Law 715, the
evaluation of the implementation of the Law 715, the evaluation of alternative school
organization/management schemes and the assessment of learning achievements for
preschoolers.




                                                33
(A) Enrollment data and registries

The analysis of accuracy of enrollment data and a proposal for improvement in registries were
completed during the Project.

The Project activities led to the establishment of a stronger registry, with mechanisms to control
the quality of schools' information systems. This new system was critical in the implementation
of the targeting system decided by Law 715, which switched from transfers of education
resources to the territorial entities based on the number of teachers, to transfers based on the
actual number of students attending school and existing coverage gaps.

In order to implement the Law, the education system needed a strong sector information system,
which local authorities would use mandatorily to report the information required by the central
Government to define transfers. This system needs to provide reliable, timely information about
the number of students enrolled in formal educational establishments, state-funded
establishments and privately-funded schools. To establish this system, the Ministry of Education
issued the Resolution 166 of 2003.

The first step in the process was to conduct a series of audits of enrollment information reported
to the Ministry of Education by local authorities. These audits applied to circa 20 percent of the
educational establishments of the regions of Valle del Cauca and the Narino. A series of cases,
where the information on registration (in official, subsidized and private schools) reported by
local authorities differed from that collected by the audit, were brought to the attention of the
players, so that the system could be adjusted and corrected.

The following step was the development of a system of registries that allow for greater quality of
data and systematic controls. The Ministry of Education assesses the quality of enrollment
information through a series of cross-checking with data from the National Administrative
Department of Statistics (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística, DANE) based
on surveys and censuses, and applies special audits when the information is suspected to contain
errors.

The new funding formula based on the number of students rather than the number of teachers has
started to pressure the territorial entities and their schools to enroll more children or risk losing
money. This has resulted in greater incentives to broaden the coverage of education. To ensure
that the incentive effect is maintained over time, good information and verification systems are
being developed. Complementing this effort, the Ministry of Education is providing technical
assistance to the local Secretaries of Education (in charge of the registry) to develop reliable
databases for monitoring and evaluation purposes.

The Ministry of Education has also entered into agreements with regional Secretaries of
Education to help them restructure their education systems to increase productivity ­
concentrating rationalization efforts in 42 decentralized municipalities with over 10,000 residents
(over 70 percent of the student population). Many of these agreements relate to the process of

                                                 34
certification of municipalities, whereby Secretaries, once certified, will receive their education
transfers in a form that allows them to have discretionary authority over those resources.

(B) Impact of decentralization

The decentralization reform mandated by Law 715 was implemented and evaluated by the
closing of the Project. The methodology used combined a series of tools and techniques,
including a public expenditure tracking survey, facility surveys, and a series of longitudinal
analysis using administrative data and household surveys. This assessment aimed at identifying
potential bottlenecks or leakages in the education sector, assessing the criteria used to allocate
resources; and evaluating existing incentives to increase of coverage and improve quality in the
education sector.

This activity was undertaken together with the activity of the sub-component (A) of Component
3, described below in more details.


(C) Improving the quality of education

This sub-component aimed at evaluating the impact of the strategy mandated by the Ministry of
Education to integrate primary and secondary schools in order to reduce drop outs during the
transition from primary to secondary schools. In order to shed light on the implementation of the
scheme and on its impact on child performance, the study selected a sample of schools and
analyzed the results from the standardized tests used to evaluate student performance.

The Project supported the analysis of the impact of the regulation mandating the integration of
primary and secondary schools on administrative and education quality. The main findings of
this study are that the schools that were most successful in integrating primary and secondary
levels, were those who involved the educational community in deciding the principles and
objective of the school, defining the allocation of teachers and teaching materials, defining the
pedagogical strategy, and defining the rules for the teaching and the management of the schools.

In addition, the evaluation found positive results in students' performance, as revealed by the
learning test applied to 5th and 9th grade students before and after the integration process. The
performance of the student improved about 3.2 and 4.5 between 2003 and 2005 for the 5th and 9th
grade, respectively. These results are attributed to better relations between students, and to a
greater sense of belonging within the schools. Finally, the evaluation found that parents
perceived that after the integration, the schools increased their interest in working with students
to improve their educational performance.

With these results, the Ministry of Education accelerated the integration process of primary and
secondary schools, as defined by Law 715/2001, and focused its effort on increasing investments
in inputs to improve the quality of education.




                                                35
(D) Pre-school education testing

These activities supported by this sub-component aimed at designing and testing a tool to
evaluate and analyze the basic skills of children in the transition grade, between pre-schools and
primary school. The evaluation was undertaken in terms of communication, civic education,
math and science. The Project supported the design of instruments to assess the capacity of
children, the testing of the instruments in 10 departments with 180 teachers and 4.200 children.
The Ministry of Education finalized the evaluation instruments.

The study of the results themselves showed that the activities proposed in the evaluation
instrument were coherent with the physical and mental developments of children at that age
group. After adopting the instrument, the Ministry of education developed a new curriculum for
the transition grade, based on competencies, and started its application in pre-schools.


Component 3: Technical Assistance to DNP (US$450,000)

The objective of Component 3 was to strengthen the DNP's capacity for institutionalizing
periodic evaluation and monitoring of social programs for citizens' oversight and feedback. The
specific objectives were achieved, through the evaluation of the implementation of the Law 715
and through the definition of a mechanism for greater social control.

(A) Revenue transfers system.

The first sub-component aimed at developing the methodology for the assessment of the system
of revenue transfers for health and education. This activity was implemented jointly with the
activity (B) of Component 2, which focuses on education. The objective was to provide a
methodology for the systematic study of the current revenue sharing system mandated by Law
715 of 2001 for early detection of its impact on the patterns of education and health spending of
territorial entities in terms of equity, efficiency, and their fiscal efforts.

The evaluation of Law 715 was a very complex endeavor calling for a very complex
methodology, because of the complexity of the reform, the large number of agencies involved at
different levels of Government, and the fact that transfers from central Government are only one
of the sources of funds for the delivery of health and education services by local Governments.

This called for a methodology that would use a series of state-of-the-art techniques, including
some which had never been applied in Colombia. The methodology used combined a series of
tools and techniques, including a public expenditure tracking survey, facility surveys, and a
series of longitudinal analysis using administrative data and household surveys.

As part of the overall effort, also supported by Inter-American Development Bank and covering
a broader range of sectors, the Project contributed to the development of the methodology to be
used for the analysis. The Bank provided extensive technical assistance during Project
implementation to help the National Development Department, sectoral agencies, and the
                                               36
consulting firm hired for the evaluation in the design of the methodology, with the support from
one of the leading world experts in this area. In addition, the Project supported the
implementation of the Public Expenditure Tracking Survey, one of the elements of the broader
range of analytical methodology used for the evaluation.


(B) Social control system.

The objective of this sub-component was to develop and implement a system for greater social
control for the national Government. This component further developed elements elaborated
during the preparation of the PLaRSSAL II, with support of a Japanese grant (PHRD).

The Project, along with support provided by the Bank through the preparation and
implementation of its Project on Strengthening Public Information, Monitoring and Evaluation
for Results Management (Ln. 7620), contributed to the development of results-based
management, transparency and accountability through the design and implementation of a series
of tools for social oversight.

In particular, this component financed the development and implementation of design and
implementation of a Social Control System (SCS) for Colombia conformed by the promotion of
civil society initiative as Colombia Líder and the design of mechanism to improve the quality of
tools available for citizen oversight. Colombia Líder is a civil society organization which
includes the Semana weekly publication, Asobancaria (Association of financial institutions, the
foundation Antonio Restrepo Barco (Foundation for the promotion of rights and social
development, with a focus on children, youth, health, education and social participation),
Fedesarrollo (think tank for research in economics, political science and public administration),
RCN (Colombian radio and television company), Duke Image (advertizing company), the United
Nations Program for Development (UNDP) and the Fescol group (German foundation for the
promotion of citizen's understanding of political and social issues for democracy and plurality).
This organization promotes the monitoring and oversight of Government's policies and strategies
to reduce the poverty and inequality.

This Project supported activities by DNP that allowed for the establishment of this civil society
organization. In particular, it supported the design of a set of indicators to monitor the
Government's strategy to reduce poverty and inequality and local-level policies and strategies (at
regional and municipal levels). Since 2007, Colombia Líder has organized several sessions
during which civil society monitors the Government's strategy and policies, and rewards the
performance of territorial governments. Some of these sessions are summarized below.
Colombia Líder is currently working with the Juntos strategy (national network for the reduction
of extreme poverty) to design a prize for the best mayor and governor in the implementation of
the strategy.




                                               37
Name of session                            Objectives
Reward to Best Mayor and Governor          Recognize the best performing territorial governments
Workshop about Public Information System   Disseminate information on the information systems available to
                                           the public to monitor social programs
First Session of Dialogue on Poverty       Open a national dialogue to share local good practice to reduce
                                           poverty
Second Session of Dialogue on Poverty      Disseminate and discuss the reform of the decentralization
                                           system (allocation of central funds to local governments for the
                                           provision of services, Sistema General de Partcipación)
"Good Vote"                                Disseminate and discuss the platforms of candidates for
                                           territorial government elections
Childhood's real witches                   Promote a dialogue on programs and strategies for early the
                                           early childhood development and poverty reduction among
                                           children.

The Project also supported a survey of users of the SIGOB, the national system for the
monitoring of Government's objectives, which monitors the implementation of key policies and
programs and the progress towards reaching the targets set by the Government. The survey
revealed that the principal users of the system are employees of the public sector, followed by
researchers and private citizens. The average user visits the SIGOB website at least once a
month, and the main reasons for visiting the site are to get information on the results of
government policies. 90 percent of all those interviewed explained that they did find the
information they were seeking on the side. 67 percent reported that the information was easy to
find and 76 percent considered that information as good quality. Finally, 53 percent of the
respondents thought that SIGOB was a good tool for the accountability of the Government to its
citizens. The main criticism to the system related to the fact that the information was sometimes
incomplete and obsolete, that access to an internet connection with sufficient capacity was not
always possible. After the survey, the National Planning Department implemented changes to its
SIGOB site and to its broader publication policy. This survey is currently followed up by a
broader user's survey for the entire Monitoring and Evaluation activities of the National
Planning Department, as supported by the Bank operation in this area.




                                                38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Since the Project comprises exclusively technical assistance, economic and financial analysis is
not applicable.




                                              37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
            Names                                Title                  Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Vicente B. Paqueo               Consultant                            EASHD Co-TTL
Wendy Cunningham                Lead Specialist                       HDNCY Co-TTL
Daniel J. Boyce                 Country Program Coordinator           SACNA
Eduardo Brito                   Sr Counsel                            LEGAF Legal
                                                                            Financial
Jeannette Estupinan             Sr Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
                                                                            Management
Sonia M. Levere                 Language Program Assistant            LCSHH Team Assistant
Jose M. Martinez                Senior Procurement Specialist         LCSPT Procurement
Mariangeles Sabella             Sr Counsel                            LEGLA Legal
Martha P. Vargas                Program Assistant                     LCSDE Team Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Wendy Cunningham                Lead Specialist                       HDNCY TTL till March 2008
Aline Coudouel                  Senior Economist                      LCSHS TTL since April 2008
 Patricia Bernedo               Senior Program Assistant              LCSHS Team Assistant
 Elsa Coy                       Temporary Program Assistant           LCCCO Team Assistant
 Sonia Levere                   Language Program Assistant            LCSHH Team Assistant
                                                                            Financial
Mylenna Cardenas Garcia         Consultant, Financial Management      LCSFM
                                                                            Management
Jose M. Martinez                Senior Procurement Specialist         LCSPT Procurement
 Andrew Mason                   Lead Economist                        EAPSP
 Rafael P. Rofman               Lead Social Protection Special        LCSHS
 Andrea Vermehren               Sr Social Protection Specialist       SASSP
 Martha Laverde                 Sr Education Spec.                    LCSHE
 Claudio Rodrigo Garcia Verdu   Economist                             LCSPP
 Diana Isabel Cardenas          Consultant                            LCSHD
 Karla J. McEvoy                Operations Analyst                    LCSHS
 Emanuele Baldacci              Consultant                            LCSHS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                 USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                              27                           130.25
  FY06                                                                             0.00
  FY07                                                                             0.00

                                                  38
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                         Total:         27                            130.25
Supervision/ICR
 FY05                                    8                             55.30
  FY06                                  17                             95.83
  FY07                                  21                             81.55
  FY08                                  26                             98.26
  FY09                                  14                             50.17
 FY10                                   8.3                            49.91
                         Total:         94.3                          431.02




                                      39
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The completion report of the Government is included here in its integrality in Spanish.


                                   PREPARACION DEL INFORME DE CIERRE

                            Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para la Reforma Laboral y el
                         Ajuste Estructural Social "Technical Assistance Loan 7260­ T.A.L"


    I.      Objetivos originales de desarrollo del Proyecto y principales Indicadores


Los objetivos iniciales del Proyecto consistieron en: (a) ayudar al Prestatario en la ejecución de las actividades
formativas de análisis, asesoría, y consenso dentro del MPS, MEN y DNP para promover la gestión con base en
resultados; y (b) fortalecer la capacidad para poner en marcha reformas laborales y sociales del Prestatario, el cual se
mantuvo durante su ejecución.

Este propósito estuvo orientado principalmente a la provisión de asistencia técnica, con el fin de poner en marcha
reformas coherentes sobre:

i)      Protección Social, abarcando empleo, capacitación, salud y asistencia social para la población pobre
vulnerable.
ii)      Descentralización de la educación ordenada por la Ley 715 de 2001, incluyendo, entre otras cosas, la
evaluación del avance en la integración de la educación primaria y secundaria y el alistamiento escolar de los niños
de cinco (5) años de edad.
iii)    Iniciativa de retroalimentación e información con base en la sociedad civil, concebida para llevar a       cabo
una evaluación y monitoreo periódicos de los programas de asistencia social del Gobierno Nacional.



         Resultados intermedios:

9        Componente Uno MPS

         1. Implementación de los recomendaciones en los diferentes roles que conciernen a las agencias (e,g
         MSP, MEN y SENA) basado sobre las líneas guías propuestas en el reporte del Sistema Nacional de
         Entrenamiento NTS.


Este indicador se cumplió totalmente y los principales resultados se describen a continuación:

Uno de los objetivos de este subcomponente se concentro en desarrollar e implementar un Sistema Nacional de
Formación para el trabajo (SNFT), en el marco definido en la Ley 789 de 2002. Dentro de los resultados logrados
cabe destacar:

            Ley 1164 de 2007, por medio de la cual se establecieron las disposiciones en materia de Talento Humano
            en Salud.

            Decreto Reglamentario No. 860 de marzo de 2008, por medio del cual se dictaron medidas transitorias para
            la autorización del ejercicio del talento humano en salud.

                                                          40
         Decreto Reglamentario No. 1730 de mayo de 2008, por medio del cual se reglamentan los mecanismos de
         escogencia de los representantes al Consejo Nacional de Talento Humano en Salud.

         Decreto No. 2006 de junio de 208, por el cual se crea la Comisión Intersectorial para el Talento Humano.

     2. Diseño mejorado e implementación del salario subsidio y del programa de subsidios de
        desempleo.

Este indicador se cumplió totalmente, los principales resultados se describen a continuación:

         Diseño de Instrumentos de seguimiento y control de las funciones reguladores en el Sistema de Protección
         Social del ámbito de competencia del Ministerio en concordancia con el sistema de incentivos a la
         protección laboral, la cual incluye:

            i)     Cifras y estadísticas relevantes para el diagnóstico de los esquemas actuales de subsidio al empleo
                   y promoción al empleo en general.
            ii)    Descripción de los roles necesarios en un seguro de desempleo y una propuesta de asignación de
                   esos roles institucionales entre los actores actuales del mercado laboral.
            iii)   Lista de pasos a seguir para la implementación eficaz de la propuesta de seguro de desempleo.

El MPS presentará para concertación antes las diferentes instancias de Gobierno, la ppropuesta Institucional de
reordenamiento operativo y de regulación institucional de los programas activos de generación de empleo y
protección laboral en concordancia con el diseño de incentivos y formas de financiamiento con recomendaciones
para su implementación.

     3. Integración de la red existente y la abastecedora de servicios para la población vulnerable dentro del
     Sistema de Protección Social.

Como tercer reto del Proyecto, se estructuro un indicador para propender por una estructura de financiamiento
sostenible, anticíclica y articulada entre sus diferentes fuentes y usos, a partir de la evaluación de los esquemas de
financiamiento, así como de sus posibles transformaciones y explorar la posibilidad de incorporar fuentes
alternativas de financiamiento para lograr las características antes citadas en la estructura de financiamiento del
SNPS.

Se puede concluir que este indicador se cumplió parcialmente, considerando que el SNPS depende de los recursos
disponibles para el financiamiento tanto a nivel regional como nacional, dentro de los principales logros se destacan:

         Estudio de revisión de cálculos actuariales de los procesos de normalización de pasivos pensiónales del
         Sistema General de Seguridad Social.
         Documento técnico análisis actuarial sobre las propuestas dirigidas a modificar el Fondo de Garantía de
         Pensión Mínima del Sistema General de Seguridad Social en Pensiones.
         Documento técnico sobre aspectos metodológicos de la aplicación de criterios actuariales en el diseño y
         monitoreo de programas del Sistema de Protección Social.
         Estudio Caracterización jurisprudencial de los derechos y la descripción de topologías de aplicación de los
         derechos con base en las acciones de tutelas, el cual incluyó comparación con la caracterización que se
         realiza en las sentencias de constitucionalidad más relevantes.
         Propuesta de un diseño de seguro de desempleo teniendo en cuenta las iniciativas existentes. Para este
         diseño se debe especificar las alternativas de financiamiento y la focalización sobre qué grupo o grupos
         poblacionales se puede aplicar.
         Documento revisión de los diversos mecanismos de intermediación laboral en Colombia, el cual incluyó
         análisis de las potencialidades, ventajas y desventajas de cada uno de ellos, identificando grupos
         poblacionales (tanto de empresarios como de personas buscando empleo) que utilizan estos mecanismos de
         intermediación laboral, analizando las opciones que tendrían los grupos más vulnerables de la población.



                                                          41
         Documento revisión de la literatura acerca de retornos y calidad de la educación superior en Colombia y
         adicionalmente las estimaciones y los resultados acerca de los retornos y la calidad de educación superior
         en Colombia, así como sus implicaciones de política económica.
     4. Promoción en el nivel regional, integrado y coherente con la coordinación de la gerencia pública y las
     políticas del Sistema Nacional de Protección.

Respecto a la promoción en el nivel regional, en el cual se baso en el diseño e incorporación dentro del proceso de
fortalecimiento y consolidación del SNPS una estrategia que comprenda y articule el orden nacional y territorial, se
puede concluir que este indicador se cumplió parcialmente, considerando que al cierre del Proyecto se continua en
coordinación el Viceministerio de Relaciones Laborales - Dirección General de Inspección, Vigilancia y Control de
Trabajo, en la implementación de la Política a nivel nacional, dentro de los principales alcances se pueden destacar:

         Documento técnico sobre los resultados de la evaluación de las finanzas territoriales y los modelos de
         cofinanciación más utilizados en Colombia.

         Concepto técnico sobre los requerimientos de normatividad o reglamentación que ayudarían en el
         fortalecimiento de la administración pública regional del Sistema de Protección Social y los modelos
         propuestos de cofinanciación.

         Estudio Técnico de la Estrategia a seguir por el MPS, para articular en forma activa la participación de las
         direcciones territoriales en conjunto con la nueva estructura del MPS, coordinada con el resto de entidades
         del sector que participan en el desarrollo del SPS en Colombia, el cual incluyo plan piloto en cinco
         Direcciones Territoriales.


     5. Estrategia para consolidar la operación, la tecnología y las capacidades del SPS sus agencias y sus
     agentes.


Parte del diseño e implementación del sistema integrado de información de la protección social ­SIIPS-, con énfasis
en seguridad social, permitió aumentar la eficiencia en términos de impacto, utilización de recursos y focalización.
Así mismo, diseño e implemento mecanismos para monitorear y evaluar la ciclicidad de la estructura de
financiamiento del SNPS.

Este indicador se cumplió totalmente, y dentro de los principales productos obtenidos se puede resaltar:

    ¾    Fortalecimiento de la Plataforma tecnológica del MPS.

    ¾    Fortalecimiento de los Sistemas de Información COINFO, RUAF, PILA.

A través de este sistema integral el MPS ha logrado obtener:

         Estimación de la estabilidad fiscal del sistema pensional a través de la información de PILA.
         Caracterización tanto de la población cotizante como el seguimiento de sus aportes al SSS.
         Establecer las principales variables en el diseño del sistema de información.
         Diseño de un sistema de información prototipo sobre pensionados basado en PILA.
         Modelación del comportamiento de los ingresos y pagos del Sistema de Seguridad Social.
         Seguimiento a la adopción de PILA de acuerdo a los Decretos 1931/2006, 1670/2007 y 728 de 2008.
         Posible comportamiento de los aportes al SSS con base al comportamiento histórico de los mismos.


     6. Numero de programas sobre el MSP siendo sistemáticamente supervisado, evaluado y discutido con el
     público (ciudadanos desconocidos) y retroalimentando la línea base.

Este indicador se cumplió totalmente, teniendo en cuenta que a grandes rasgos el objetivo se oriento en la revisión
de los criterios que orientan la oferta pública existente de servicios de asistencia social, sus políticas, operación y

                                                         42
cobertura, para establecer un nuevo portafolio focalizado en los hogares más vulnerables frente a los choques que
generan un deterioro irreversible sobre el capital humano, dentro de los logros se destacan:

             Estudio sobre Mecanismos legales implementados para evitar la pérdida de subsidios en salud de población
             con Sisbén 1 y 2 con afiliación incidental en el Régimen Contributivo.
             Proyección de Presupuesto de ingresos del Fondo de Solidaridad Pensional en las subcuentas de solidaridad
             y subsistencia / Presupuesto ejecutado.
             Estudios técnicos realizados para determinar la posibilidad de utilizar las cesantías como mecanismo de
             protección laboral, y la viabilidad financiera de su posible aplicación como seguro de desempleo.
             Programas de protección social incluidos en la estructuración financiera.
             Avance en la implementación de un sistema de información de pensionados en conjunto con la Dirección
             de Seguridad Económica y Pensiones del MPS.
             Reformas implementadas el esquema de seguridad social de las madres comunitarias
             Estudio de recopilación y análisis de estados financieros de las EPS.
             Estudio de Caracterización del mercado laboral de los independientes y afiliados no activos a pensiones.
             Proyecciones de impacto fiscal de la implementación del programa BEPS.
             Ley No. 1328 del 15 de julio de 2009, Art. 87 Reforma Financiera por medio de la cual se dicta normas en
             materia financiera, de seguros y del mercado de valores, entre otras disposiciones.


       9     Componente Dos MEN:

1.     Mejorar la educación de primera Infancia:

Atendiendo a las recomendaciones del estudio realizado en el 2006 por ICESI para evaluar el impacto del proceso
de integración institucional sobre la organización, la gestión y la calidad de las instituciones educativas, de seguir
fortaleciendo la integración del componente pedagógico y curricular desde preescolar hasta el grado once, con el
objeto de buscar una mejor calidad y en relación con la atención de la población menor de 5 años, se presentan los
siguientes logros:

1.1.       Se sancionó la Ley 1098 de 2006 Código de la Infancia y Adolescencia Mediante que tiene como objeto
           establecer normas sustantivas y procesales para la protección integral de los niños, las niñas y los
           adolescentes, garantizar el ejercicio de sus derechos y libertades consagrados en los instrumentos
           internacionales de Derechos Humanos, en la Constitución Política y en las leyes, así como su
           restablecimiento. Dicha garantía y protección será obligación de la familia, la sociedad y el Estado.

1.2.       Para atender a este mandamiento legal, el Ministerio de Educación incorporó en su presupuesto un proyecto
           de inversión que permitiera destinar recursos del presupuesto nacional a la atención educativa de la primera
           infancia.

1.3.       Mediante Acto Legislativo 04 de 2007, se modificaron artículos 356 y 357 de la Constitución Nacional,
           estableciendo que si la tasa de crecimiento real de la economía (Producto Interno Bruto, PIB) certificada por
           el DANE para el año respectivo es superior al 4%, el incremento de las transferencias de la Nación - SGP será
           igual a la tasa de inflación causada, más la tasa de crecimiento real, más los puntos porcentuales de diferencia
           resultantes de comparar la tasa de crecimiento real de la economía certificada por el DANE Y el 4%. Estos
           recursos adicionales se destinarán a la atención integral de la primera infancia.

1.4.       Para garantizar la atención integral a los niños y niñas menores de 5 años, especialmente para aquellos
           pertenecientes a los grupos poblacionales más pobres y vulnerables del país, el Ministerio de Educación
           Nacional (MEN) y el Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF), lideran la implementación de la
           política educativa para la primera infancia. Esta política se centra en articular las acciones de protección,
           cuidado, nutrición y educación para propiciar el desarrollo integral de la niñez. La atención integral se presta
           en diferentes modalidades, tales como la Familiar, la Comunitaria y la Institucional.

           En el periodo comprendido entre junio de 2008 y noviembre de 2009, se brindó atención integral a 174.445
           nuevos niños y niñas menores de 5 años, con lo cual se llegó a un acumulado de 210.149 menores atendidos

                                                              43
      durante el presente periodo de gobierno. Con relación a los nuevos niños y niñas atendidos: 45.744 se
      atendieron en la modalidad comunitaria, 36.637 en la modalidad familiar y 38.683 en la modalidad
      institucional. Por su parte, 53.381 niños recibieron atención bajo las modalidades especiales.

      De otra parte, se suscribió un convenio con el Instituto Colombiano de Crédito Educativo y Estudios Técnicos
      en el Exterior (ICETEX), a través del cual se creó un fondo de administración para el fomento a la atención
      integral a la primera infancia, para subsidiar la atención integral de los niños y niñas menores de cinco años,
      hasta su ingreso al grado obligatorio de transición. En esta estrategia, los municipios aportan la contrapartida
      para los componentes de nutrición y cuidado, con los recursos del Sistema General de Participaciones,
      provenientes del crecimiento real de la economía superior al 4% de la vigencia 2007.

      A fin de garantizar la correcta articulación de los sectores encargados de la atención integral de la primera
      infancia, se destaca la capacitación de 800 profesionales en 44 Entidades Territoriales, en "Capacitación,
      validación, seguimiento y evaluación, de la Ruta Operativa para la prestación del Servicio de la Atención
      Integral de la Primera Infancia." Adicionalmente, con el propósito de difundir los ejes básicos de la Política
      Educativa para la Primera Infancia en el marco de una atención integral, se diseñó una campaña de formación
      a través de medios de comunicación orientada a brindar herramientas al público en general en torno al
      cuidado de la primera infancia.

      Finalmente, el Ministerio viene trabajando en conjunto con el ICBF, en la consolidación de proyectos de
      construcción de infraestructura en distintas regiones del país. A la fecha, se tiene previsto adelantar 62
      proyectos de Infraestructura para la atención integral a la Primera Infancia, que beneficiarán a 26.850 niños y
      niñas con una inversión cercana a los $102 mil millones, provenientes de tres fuentes: MEN $40.770
      millones, ICBF $29.824 millones y los municipios con recursos provenientes del CONPES 115, $31.431
      millones. Los municipios aportarán el predio para la construcción de la infraestructura así como los recursos
      asignados por el CONPES 115, mientras que el Ministerio de Educación y el ICBF se comprometen a aportar
      recursos de contrapartida necesarios para financiar en su totalidad la construcción y dotación del mismo. A la
      fecha 6 infraestructuras cuentan con diseño arquitectónico.

Con la contratación de la Universidad del Valle, en diciembre de 2005, se logro obtener un documento de trabajo de
elaboración y aplicación del "Instrumento Descripción de Competencias Básicas en el Grado de Transición", que
se realizo de manera conjunta entre el Instituto de Psicología de la Universidad del Valle, el Ministerio de Educación
Nacional y 10 Secretarias de Educación se dio inicio a esta actividad.

El propósito de este trabajo fue describir y analizar las competencias básicas de los niños en el grado de transición:
comunicativas, ciudadanas, matemáticas y científicas. Cada competencia se define por un grupo funcionamientos
mentales que representan un aspecto constitutivo de la competencia. El acceso a los funcionamientos mentales se
logra a partir de descriptores que tipifican los desempeños de los niños en la ejecución de tareas que conforman el
instrumento.

Las conclusiones del estudio se pueden resumir de la siguiente manera:
Los resultados de las actividades de seguimiento permiten establecer la manera como las maestras han
comprendido el instrumento y como se han apropiado de su uso y procedimiento de aplicación.
Igualmente permiten establecer explícitamente las consideraciones alrededor de diferentes factores que
intervienen en este uso y aplicación.

El instrumento de descripción de competencias es una herramienta que según lo expuesto por las maestras posibilita
establecer la línea base en la que se encuentran los niños con relación a cada uno de los funcionamientos mentales
descritos, así como observar los avances de cada uno en el establecimiento de relaciones consigo mismo, con los
otros y con el mundo en su totalidad.

Al hacer comentarios sobre las tareas que deben ser revisadas, las maestras dirigen sus argumentos principalmente
hacia la confusión que se presenta en los niños con las preguntas formuladas en la actividad "descubriendo el
tamaño del ratón". Con relación al número de preguntas consignas en algunas de las actividades del instrumento, las



                                                         44
maestras en general dicen que son muchas y que al hacerlas todas en una tarea los niños se cansan, pierden interés o
no contestan.

Finalmente el apartado de otros factores implicados en la aplicación del instrumento, permite comprender una serie
de condiciones que se deben tener en cuenta al momento de emplear el instrumento como lo son: El espacio físico,
el número de niños, el tiempo de aplicación por tarea, el tiempo total de aplicación de las actividades por grupo, la
colaboración en actividades y personal disponible para los niños que no están en la aplicación, así como también el
tiempo que se deben tomar las maestras para conocer y comprender el instrumento. La mayor inquietud de las
maestras se encuentra en el corto tiempo que tuvieron para apropiarse de las tareas, lograr una buena
conceptualización y apropiarse de la metodología propuesta en el instrumento.

2.     Mejorar la integración de los niveles de primaria y secundaria:

Para que el país avance de manera rápida y sostenida en su proceso de desarrollo social y económico, el Plan de
Desarrollo Educativo en el periodo 2006 ­ 2010 está ejecutando un conjunto de estrategias para dar respuesta a las
necesidades de ampliación de la cobertura, mejoramiento de la calidad, pertinencia y eficiencia en la prestación del
servicio educativo

Con este propósito se han formulado cinco acciones fundamentales que están transformando la educación en
Colombia.

2.1.   Educación incluyente a lo largo de toda la vida.
2.2.   Educación de calidad para innovar y competir.
2.3.   Fortalecimiento de la institución educativa.
2.4.   Modernización del sector.
2.5.   Gestión participativa.

Para el caso de los compromisos con el crédito y en la línea de respuesta al los indicadores acordados, la integración
de los niveles de primaria y secundaria se desarrolla principalmente a través de la siguiente acción:


2.1. Educación Incluyente a lo largo de toda la vida

El objetivo principal de esta acción es el de ofrecer a todos los colombianos y especialmente a los más vulnerables,
la posibilidad de acceder a mayores oportunidades educativas a lo largo de toda la vida, a partir de la integración de
todos los niveles educativos, incluyendo esfuerzos desde la primera infancia, hasta la articulación de la educación
para el trabajo y el desarrollo humano a la educación formal.

Para lograr este objetivo se han diseñado e implementado programas como:

2.1.1. Acceso y permanencia de la educación preescolar, básica y media (5 a 16 años).

Una de las principales metas planteadas en el Plan Sectorial es la de garantizar el acceso universal en todos los
niveles de la educación básica y ampliar la cobertura en la educación media.

Como resultado de las estrategias planteadas, en el año 2009 las tasas de cobertura bruta en educación secundaria y
media registraron avances significativos. En el año 2009, se alcanzó una matrícula oficial de 9.440.478 alumnos y se
generó un total de 191.871 nuevos cupos oficiales en secundaria y media.

En el caso de secundaria, con base en el reporte preliminar con corte al 30 de septiembre de 2009, la matrícula
oficial aumentó en 117.488 cupos. La tasa de cobertura bruta en este nivel registró un crecimiento de 3 puntos
porcentuales al pasar de 98 % en 2008 a 101.7 % en 2009. Se logró superar en 2 puntos porcentuales la meta de la
vigencia y en 1 punto porcentual la definida para el periodo de gobierno, garantizando en 2009 la universalización
de la cobertura en este nivel educativo.



                                                          45
En educación media se generó un total de 74.383 nuevos cupos oficiales, que representan un incremento en la tasa
de cobertura bruta de 4 puntos porcentuales, pasando de 71% en 2008 a 75.6% en 2009.

El Ministerio de Educación Nacional ha venido mejorando los sistemas de reporte de información del sector
educativo, identificando y caracterizando a la población atendida de manera oportuna y precisa. A partir de 2008 las
80 entidades territoriales certificadas, junto con sus instituciones educativas, han hecho uso del sistema de
información de matrícula SIMAT, el cual permite hacer seguimiento alumno por alumno.

De igual manera, el Ministerio ha desarrollado la campaña Ni Uno Menos, con el propósito de sensibilizar a la
comunidad educativa y a toda la sociedad en general sobre la corresponsabilidad e importancia del acceso y
permanencia de los niños, niñas y jóvenes en la escuela. Esta campaña, que inició en 2005, se difundió durante los
meses de noviembre y diciembre de 2008 y en los dos primeros meses de 2009.

En noviembre de 2009 se realizaron nuevas piezas de comunicación masiva y se trabaja en acciones de movilización
social en 33 municipios en 19 departamentos del país.

En cuanto a la ampliación de Infraestructura escolar, para el incremento de cobertura pública, y en el marco de la
política Anticíclica, el Ministerio ha establecido con las entidades territoriales, esquemas de ejecución para la
construcción de infraestructura, mediante los cuales se tiene previsto ejecutar, entre 2009 y 2011, aproximadamente
un billón de pesos provenientes de diferentes fuentes, tales como Ley 21, Presupuesto General de la Nación,
Regalías (directas y FNR), créditos FINDETER y recursos propios de las entidades territoriales. Con esta estrategia
se estima generar alrededor de 60.000 empleos directos y 90.000 indirectos.

Durante el 2008 y lo que va corrido del 2009 con recursos Ley 21, el Ministerio de Educación ha entregado 1.525
aulas, beneficiando 96.686 niños y jóvenes con proyectos de ampliación de cobertura, atención a emergencias y plan
fronteras

El programa de acceso y permanencia de la educación preescolar, básica y media contempla las siguientes
estrategias:

  ¾   Atención a la Población Vulnerable. Población en situación de desplazamiento, Sisbén 1 y 2, con necesidades
      educativas especiales e indígenas.

  ¾   Atención a población en situación de pobreza. Con el fin de atender a este grupo poblacional se han venido
      desarrollando estrategias de Gratuidad Educativa, Alimentación Escolar, Familias en Acción, Red para la
      Superación de la Pobreza Extrema ­ Red Juntos.

  ¾   Atención a población con necesidades educativas especiales ­ NEE. Este programa busca generar
      mecanismos para hacer efectivos los derechos a la educación, la participación y la igualdad de oportunidades
      para todos, así como promover la inclusión de las personas con discapacidad en los diferentes grados de
      educación formal. En desarrollo del programa, desde 2008 se han beneficiado 263 instituciones educativas,
      685 docentes capacitados y 70.536 estudiantes, de los cuales 3.646 presentan discapacidad y 239 talentos o
      capacidades excepcionales.

  ¾   Población rural dispersa. Con modelos educativos flexibles se busca garantizar la inclusión, acceso educativo
      y permanencia de los niños, niñas y jóvenes con características de vulnerabilidad al sistema educativo,
      especialmente para llegar a población dispersa en el área rural. Con ellos se da continuidad a la oferta
      educativa desde preescolar hasta la media y se atiende con calidad las necesidades educativas específicas de
      una población determinada. Durante el 2008 se atendieron con modelos como Escuela Nueva, Posprimaria,
      Media Rural, Aceleración del Aprendizaje, Telesecundaria, SER, SAT, Preescolar escolarizado y
      semiescolarizado, Círculos del Aprendizaje y Grupos Juveniles Creativos a 1.016.120 niños y jóvenes.

  ¾   Atención a niños y jóvenes afectados por la violencia. El sector educativo ha atendido de manera preferencial
      y prioritaria a la población en situación de desplazamiento con recursos del Sistema General de
      Participaciones y con recursos del Presupuesto General de la Nación destinados a la contratación del servicio
      educativo, a la implementación de modelos flexibles y a la construcción de infraestructura y dotación de

                                                        46
         mobiliario escolar. Con contratación de la prestación del servicio educativo se generaron en el 2008, 13.444
         nuevos cupos para la población desplazada.

     Adicionalmente estas estrategias se articulan con la oferta educativa para educación Superior.


2.1.2. Educación para el trabajo y el desarrollo humano (14 años y más) Articulación de la educación media
con la superior. En el desarrollo de las competencias laborales específicas se está impulsando la estrategia de
articulación de la media con el SENA, la educación superior y la formación para el trabajo y el desarrollo humano.

Para garantizar la permanencia de los estudiantes de educación media en el sistema con ofertas académicas
pertinentes al desarrollo de las regiones, se promueve la articulación de los estudiantes de grado décimo y once con
programas técnicos profesionales ofrecidos por el SENA y por las instituciones de educación superior mediante el
fondo de fomento a la educación media. A través de este fondo, en 2008 se financió la matrícula de 2.329
estudiantes de educación media de 73 instituciones educativas ubicadas en 32 secretarías de educación; en 2009 se
han entregado 6.509 subsidios a nuevos estudiantes para iniciar su educación superior en programas técnicos
profesionales que, con calidad y pertinencia, responden a las apuestas de innovación y competitividad del país; a
través del SENA en 2008 se logró una cobertura de 263.127 estudiantes y a través de las instituciones de educación
superior 9.529 estudiantes.

2.1.3. Alfabetización y educación básica para jóvenes y adultos (mayores de 15 años)
El Programa Nacional de Alfabetización y Educación Básica y media de Jóvenes y Adultos, el MEN con el apoyo
de las Secretarías de Educación, acorde con lo establecido en el Decreto 3011 de 1997, han atendido en ciclo 1 a
426.096 jóvenes y adultos iletrados entre 2008 y 2009, en 51 entidades territoriales, a través de la contratación de 3
modelos educativos y la capacitación 16.102 docentes.

Para dar cumplimiento a esta actividad, el Ministerio de Educación contrató con la Universidad ICESI la evaluación
del impacto del proceso de integración institucional sobre la organización, la gestión y la calidad de las instituciones
educativas.

El estudio proporcionó una gran cantidad de información que permite realizar un diagnostico de las instituciones
educativas en los aspectos ya mencionados, que no necesariamente implica una relación causa-efecto con el proceso
de integración pero que se considera muy importante para generar acciones de mejoramiento; por tal razón quedan
incluidas dentro del estudio aunque las conclusiones se han centrado en aquellas variables sobre las cuales si se
puede establecer una relación tanto cuantitativa como cualitativa entre el antes y el después del proceso de
integración.

Al culminar el Análisis del estudio sobre el Proceso de Integración de las Instituciones educativas y sus efectos en la
Organización escolar, la Gestión y la Calidad educativa, se puede concluir que efectivamente en todos los
municipios participantes se ha dado cumplimiento a la Ley 715 de 2001, donde ha ocurrido una nueva conformación
de instituciones y se han generado para su funcionamiento procesos financieros, administrativos y pedagógicos de
relativa unificación e integración.

Los resultados que busca la implementación de esta Ley, en términos del Acceso de los estudiantes a las
instituciones educativas, el aumento de la cobertura (en el sector urbano) y la permanencia en el sistema escolar,
han sido positivos porque los datos cuantitativos y la información cualitativa obtenida en el estudio, así lo
confirman. Paradójicamente otro fenómeno ha mostrado tendencia a su incremento y es la deserción y la repitencia,
lo cual lleva a cuestionar las dinámicas internas que se están implementando para responder a una población escolar
que presenta unas grandes afecciones sociales producto del desplazamiento masivo, la inestabilidad laboral y la
desintegración familiar.


3.     Auditorias a la Información de matrícula oficial reportada

Con la contratación del proceso de auditoría de matrícula se lograron entre otros los siguientes resultados:


                                                           47
     ¾   Verificar en campo poco más de un 20% del total de estudiantes reportados por las entidades territoriales
         certificadas en educación.


     ¾   Identificar inconsistencias y hallazgos de auditoría en el reporte de información de matrícula realizado por
         las entidades territoriales. Se entiende por hallazgo de auditoría al estudiante reportado en la base de datos
         de matrícula, que al realizar la verificación presencial y/o documental del mismo, no pudo comprobarse su
         existencia.


     ¾   Realizar el descuento de recursos financieros asociado al número de hallazgos de auditoría, garantizando
         una asignación eficiente de las transferencias del Sistema General de Participaciones.


     ¾   Depurar el reporte de información de matrícula, garantizando la estimación y publicación de estadísticas e
         indicadores sectoriales veraces y confiables.

Los resultados obtenidos y la evaluación realizada al proceso llevado a cabo en esta vigencia permitieron
adicionalmente reorientar la auditoría de matrícula para las siguientes vigencias, estableciendo parámetros y
procedimientos más ajustados a los


4.   Control de calidad de la información para implementar las reformas establecidas en la Ley 715:

Con la contratación del proceso de auditoría de matrícula se lograron entre otros los siguientes resultados:

     ¾   Verificar en campo poco más de un 20% del total de estudiantes reportados por las entidades territoriales
         certificadas en educación.


     ¾   Identificar inconsistencias y hallazgos de auditoría en el reporte de información de matrícula realizado por
         las entidades territoriales. Se entiende por hallazgo de auditoría al estudiante reportado en la base de datos
         de matrícula, que al realizar la verificación presencial y/o documental del mismo, no pudo comprobarse su
         existencia.


     ¾   Realizar el descuento de recursos financieros asociado al número de hallazgos de auditoría, garantizando
         una asignación eficiente de las transferencias del Sistema General de Participaciones.


     ¾   Depurar el reporte de información de matrícula, garantizando la estimación y publicación de estadísticas e
         indicadores sectoriales veraces y confiables.

Los resultados obtenidos y la evaluación realizada al proceso llevado a cabo en esta vigencia permitieron
adicionalmente reorientar la auditoría de matrícula para las siguientes vigencias, estableciendo parámetros y
procedimientos más ajustados a los requerimientos que en términos de verificación de información demandaba el
Ministerio de Educación Nacional.


Componente Tres DNP:

     9   Gravamen para el crédito del sistema para transferencias para la salud y la educación a entidades
         territoriales bajo ley 7 15.

En el primer semestre del 2007, el Departamento Nacional de Planeación (DNP) a través de la Dirección de
Evaluación de Políticas Públicas (DEPP), decidió seguir apoyando al proyecto Colombia Líder (CL), organización
de la sociedad civil, conformada por publicaciones Semana, Asobancaria, la Fundación Antonio Restrepo Barco,

                                                          48
Fedesarrollo, FESCOL, RCN, Duque Imagen y el Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo ­PNUD, que
busco poner en marcha un sistema de monitoreo y control a las políticas y estrategias del Gobierno para la reducción
de la pobreza y la desigualdad, basado en la experiencia y modelo de Bogotá Como Vamos, así como monitorear,
evaluar y reconocer las mejores experiencias de programas y políticas de los gobiernos locales y departamentales.
Este apoyo se contemplo dentro de las estrategias de fortalecimiento del componente de rendición de cuentas y
control social de la DEPP, con la conformación de alianzas estratégicas entre el Gobierno Nacional y
Organizaciones de la Sociedad Civil para el diseño y puesta en marcha de esquemas de rendición de cuentas y
seguimiento a las principales políticas del Gobierno. La construcción de una relación fluida y basada en la confianza
mutua, garantizará una mejor gobernabilidad, mayores niveles de transparencia y mayor efectividad en la
implementación de las políticas y programas del gobierno.
Es de anotar que el documento Conpes 102 de septiembre de 2006, reconoció la necesidad del seguimiento y control
social para el cumplimiento efectivo de las metas de reducción de la pobreza, y destacó el papel que puede cumplir
CL en esta materia. En este contexto el objetivo era actuar de manera autónoma e independiente en la creación de un
mecanismo de monitoreo, participación e información de los indicadores sociales, dirigido a la sociedad civil, a
partir del seguimiento y monitoreo de los programas estatales dirigidos a la población más pobre y vulnerable.

Como coordinador del Sistema Nacional Evaluación de Resultados -Sinergia, se comprometió a proveer
información periódica sobre los resultados y avances de los principales programas y políticas del Gobierno Nacional
con el fin de facilitar el objetivo de CL, así como brindar apoyo técnico para el diseño de indicadores de resultado,
que les permita cumplir con un efectivo control social que incentive la participación ciudadana y la rendición de
cuentas.

Así mismo, busco fortalecer el componente de gestión territorial para monitorear, evaluar y reconocer los programas
y políticas de los gobiernos locales y departamentales, mediante el apoyo a la evaluación de las propuestas que se
presenten en el marco de la Convocatoria del Premio a los Mejores Alcaldes y Gobernadores.

Lo anterior permito hacer la sistematización y difusión de las experiencias exitosas, que logre hacer visible la buena
gestión pública basada en resultados de los mandatarios locales y departamentales; la coordinación y orientación de
las acciones de difusión, discusión y análisis de la información nacional y territorial disponible sobre la gestión de
las entidades territoriales, teniendo como referencia a Sinergia y los sistemas de información y seguimiento de la
Dirección de Desarrollo Territorial Sostenible (DDTS) del DNP; y la puesta en marcha de una metodología de
intercambio y difusión de la información de los resultados producidos por Sinergia.

A continuación se enumeran las diferentes acciones realizadas y los diferentes encuentros que CL ha organizo, con
diferentes organizaciones del gobierno y de la sociedad civil, para promover diferentes temas enmarcados en sus
objetivos.

1. Foro Taller sobre sistemas de información (mayo de 2007), con la participación del DNP, el Ministerio de
Ambiente Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, el Instituto Geográfico Agustín Codazzi, PNUD, la Veeduría Distrital
de Bogotá, la Gobernación del Atlántico, y el Programa de Desarrollo Humano. El propósito era conocer los
diferentes sistemas de información con que tienen estas entidades, a partir de los cuales CL y diferentes entidades de
la sociedad civil, pueden hacer control social de los programas y metas del Gobierno. Asistentes: 60 personas.

2. Diálogos con los protagonistas. La primera sesión (abril de 2007) se llamó "Lecciones aprendidas para la
disminución de la pobreza". Contó con la participación del Alcalde de Bucaramanga, representantes de diferentes
instancias nacionales, la Misión para la Erradicación y Reducción de Pobreza y la Desigualdad, las organizaciones
de CL, la academia, entre otros. El propósito era analizar las razones por las cuáles Bucaramanga ha logrado tener
resultados satisfactorios en la disminución de la pobreza y que ha impedido que estas situaciones se den en otros
entes territoriales. Asistentes: 35 personas.

La segunda sesión (julio de 2007) se llamó "Reforma Constitucional al Acto Legislativo que modifica el Sistema
General de Participaciones (SGP). Reforma a la ley de competencias y recursos". Contó con el apoyo de la
Fundación Konrad Adenauer Stiftung y la participación de los gobernadores del Atlántico y Santander, el Alcalde de
Piedecuesta (Santander), asesores y funcionarios de 10 alcaldías, representantes de la Federación Nacional de
Departamentos y la Federación Colombiana de Municipios, la Escuela Superior de Administración Pública -ESAP,


                                                         49
diferentes medios de comunicación y el DNP. En esta sesión se analizó la posición de los entes territoriales frente a
la reforma del SGP y cuáles serían las propuestas a partir de la presentación realizada por Oswaldo Porras, director
de la DDTS del DNP. Asistentes: 40 personas

3. Proyecto Vote Bien. En este proyecto -que cuento con el apoyo de Caracol, Semana, PNUD, Fescol, Terra,
Comprensa, Congreso Visible, GTZ y Transparencia por Colombia- CL tiene una columna, en la que semanalmente
presento, cuáles temas bebían ser abordados por los candidatos a las alcaldías y gobernaciones para las elecciones de
Octubre de 2007.

4. Solicitud de información a entidades del Gobierno Nacional con el fin de verificar la información contenida en las
propuestas presentadas en el marco del Premio a los Mejores Alcaldes y Gobernadores. En esta acción se les ha
solicitado a los ministerios, al DNP y a los organismos de control, la información reportada por los diferentes
alcaldes y gobernadores que presentaron propuestas, relacionada con tasas de cobertura de salud y educación e
informes de desempeño fiscal e integral, con el fin de poder hacer los análisis y la contratación pertinente.

5. Buenas prácticas de gestión. En coordinación con el PNUD, se trabajo en un documento publicado a finales del
año que incluyó las mejores prácticas de gestión de los últimos cuatro años en las diferentes gobernaciones y
alcaldías, con el fin de obtener una base para los nuevos gobernantes territoriales.

6. Convenio con la ESAP. Para capacitar a los nuevos alcaldes, con el apoyo de la ESAP, la Federación Colombiana
de Municipios, la Fundación Konrad Adenauer, el BID y la Contraloría General de la República, se diseño el
programa de capacitación que recibieron los nuevos gobernantes territoriales en el mes de noviembre.

7. Convenio con Educación Compromiso de Todos y Salud Como Vamos. .Ambos proyectos reconocidos por el
seguimiento en educación y salud, establecieron convenios con CL, con el fin de trabajar coordinadamente en la
obtención de la información para contrastar la información reportada por el sistema de seguimiento a metas del
Gobierno Nacional, la información que reportan los ministerios y de esta manera realizar los análisis respectivos, en
el marco del componente Observatorio de Reducción de la Pobreza y la Desigualdad.

Durante la implementación de esta actividad se llevaron a cabo dos contrataciones con los siguientes fines:

          i) Apoyar a Colombia Líder en la implementación del diseño técnico y metodológico del componente de
Gestión Territorial. Esquema de difusión que contiene el diseño y coordinación de un foro sobre el desempeño
territorial con   base en la información nacional disponible y en      especial de la información producida por la
Dirección de Desarrollo Territorial y Sinergia.

        ii) Apoyar a Colombia Líder en la Implementación del diseño técnico y metodológico del
        componente observatorio de reducción de la pobreza y desigualdad. Diseño de la encuesta de
percepción ciudadana frente a la pobreza y la desigualdad.


    9    Diseño, piloto que prueba, y puesta en práctica para un sistema de control social (SCS) para
         Colombia.

Sobre la base del objetivo planteado para este subcomponente se abarcaron las siguientes actividades:

    ·    Apoyo del Departamento Nacional de Planeación a la creación y constitución de Colombia Líder ­ CL. ,
         durante los años 2006 y 2007, por intermedio de la Dirección de Evaluación de Políticas Públicas ­ DEPP.
         Colombia Lider como organización de la sociedad civil, se conformó por publicaciones Semana,
         Asobancaria, la Fundación Antonio Restrepo Barco, Fedesarrollo, RCN, Duque Imagen y el Programa de
         las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo ­PNUD, posteriormente a este grupo se unió Fescol. Su finalidad
         fue poner en marcha un sistema de monitoreo y control a las políticas y estrategias del Gobierno para la
         reducción de la pobreza y la desigualdad, basado en la experiencia y el modelo Bogotá Como Vamos, así
         como monitorear, evaluar y reconocer los programas y políticas de los gobiernos locales y departamentales.



                                                         50
    ·   Contribución por parte del Dirección de Evaluación de Políticas Públicas en la creación de los principios y
        principales líneas de intervención de CL. Posteriormente, apoyó la consolidación de las líneas de
        intervención establecidas mediante la financiación de dos consultorías a saber i) La primera consultoría
        sentó las bases del componente de monitoreo y control a la estrategia de los gobiernos para reducción de la
        pobreza y la extrema desigualdad y ii) la segunda consultoría, construyó el componente de seguimiento,
        evaluación y reconocimiento a las principales políticas y programas de los gobiernos locales y
        departamentales.

    ·   Desarrollo de la primera encuesta de Percepción y experiencia Ciudadana sobre Transparencia y
        Cumplimiento de Metas del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo desarrollada por el Centro Nacional de
        Consultoría ­ CNC. A continuación se presenta la ficha técnica.

Metodología                                           Cuantitativa
Técnica de Recolección                                Encuesta presencial con formulario estructurado

Fecha de Campo                                        1 y el 31 de julio de 2006
Perfil del Informante                                 Mayor de 18 años
Universo                                              Población mayor de 18 años de las ciudades Bogotá,
                                                      Medellín, Cali, Barranquilla, Cartagena, Santa Marta,
                                                      Pereira, Ibagué, Pasto, Popayán, Bucaramanga,
                                                      Cúcuta y Villavicencio.


Muestra                                               2.025 encuestas
Error                                                 2.17%
Nivel de confianza                                    95%

    ·   Aplicación de la encuesta virtual en 2007 para conocer las opiniones de los usuarios del Sistema de
        Seguimiento a Metas ­ Sigog sobre el mismo. A continuación se presenta la ficha técnica de la encuesta.

Metodología                                                  Cuantitativa
Técnica de Recolección                                       Encuesta con formulario electrónico
Fecha de Campo                                               Enero - Marzo de 2007
Perfil del Informante                                        Personas mayores de 18 años usuarias de Sigob
Universo                                                     6000 personas inscritas en la base de datos de usuarios
                                                             de la lista de distribución de la DEPP
Muestra                                                      220 encuestas

    Acciones llevadas a cabo sobre Control Social a través de Colombia Líder

    ·   Realización del Foro Taller sobre sistemas de información (mayo de 2007), con la participación del DNP,
        el Ministerio de Ambiente Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, el Instituto Geográfico Agustín Codazzi,
        PNUD, la Veeduría Distrital de Bogotá, la Gobernación del Atlántico, y el Programa de Desarrollo
        Humano. El propósito fue conocer los diferentes sistemas de información con que tienen estas entidades, a
        partir de los cuales CL y diferentes entidades de la sociedad civil, pueden hacer control social de los
        programas y metas del Gobierno. Asistentes: 60 personas.

    ·   Realización de Diálogos con los protagonistas: La primera sesión (abril de 2007) se llamó "Lecciones
        aprendidas para la disminución de la pobreza". Contó con la participación del Alcalde de Bucaramanga,
        representantes de diferentes instancias nacionales, la Misión para la Erradicación y Reducción de Pobreza y
        la Desigualdad, las organizaciones de CL, la academia, entre otros. El propósito fue analizar las razones por
        las cuáles Bucaramanga ha logrado tener resultados satisfactorios en la disminución de la pobreza y que ha
        impedido que estas situaciones se den en otros entes territoriales. Asistentes: 35 personas. La segunda
        sesión (julio de 2007) se llamó "Reforma Constitucional al Acto Legislativo que modifica el Sistema


                                                        51
         General de Participaciones (SGP). Reforma a la ley de competencias y recursos". Contó con el apoyo de la
         Fundación Konrad Adenauer Stiftung y la participación de los gobernadores del Atlántico y Santander, el
         Alcalde de Piedecuesta (Santander), asesores y funcionarios de 10 alcaldías, representantes de la
         Federación Nacional de Departamentos y la Federación Colombiana de Municipios, la Escuela Superior de
         Administración Pública -ESAP, diferentes medios de comunicación y el DNP. En esta sesión se analizó la
         posición de los entes territoriales frente a la reforma del SGP y cuáles serían las propuestas a partir de la
         presentación realizada por Oswaldo Porras, director de la DDTS del DNP. Asistentes: 40 personas.

    ·    Proyecto Vote Bien: En este proyecto -que cuenta con el apoyo de Caracol, Semana, PNUD, Fescol, Terra,
         Comprensa, Congreso Visible, GTZ y Transparencia por Colombia- CL tiene una columna, en la que
         semanalmente presenta, cuáles temas deben ser abordados por los candidatos a las alcaldías y
         gobernaciones para las elecciones de Octubre de 2007.
    ·    Solicitud de información a entidades del Gobierno Nacional con el fin de verificar la información contenida
         en las propuestas presentadas en el marco del Premio a los Mejores Alcaldes y Gobernadores. En esta
         acción se les ha solicitado a los ministerios, al DNP y a los organismos de control, la información reportada
         por los diferentes alcaldes y gobernadores que presentaron propuestas, relacionada con tasas de cobertura
         de salud y educación e informes de desempeño fiscal e integral, con el fin de poder hacer los análisis y la
         contratación pertinente.
    ·    Buenas prácticas de gestión: En coordinación con el PNUD, se está trabajando en un documento que será
         publicado a finales del año y que contendrá las mejores prácticas de gestión de los últimos cuatro años en
         las diferentes gobernaciones y alcaldías, y que sirvan de base para los nuevos gobernantes territoriales.

    ·    Convenio con la ESAP: Para capacitar a los nuevos alcaldes, con el apoyo de la ESAP, la Federación
         Colombiana de Municipios, la Fundación Konrad Adenauer, el BID y la Contraloría General de la
         República, se diseñó el programa de capacitación que recibirán los nuevos gobernantes territoriales en el
         mes de noviembre.

    ·    Convenio con Educación Compromiso de Todos y Salud Como Vamos.

    ·    Con ambos proyectos se está trabajando coordinadamente en la obtención de la información para los
         análisis pertinentes, en el marco del componente Observatorio de Reducción de la Pobreza y la
         Desigualdad.

    ·    Dos de las principales acciones de visibilización de estos componentes se han manifestado en el Premio de
         mejores alcaldes y mejor gobernador, que CL entregó en el 2007, y el premio que entregará el próximo año
         para reconocer a los mejores alcaldes y gobernadores que mejor hayan implementado la estrategia Juntos,
         que busca disminuir los niveles de pobreza e indigencia en Colombia.

Resultados Encuesta de percepción

Esta encuesta fue un primer ejercicio de aprendizaje de levantamiento de línea de base, que permitió reformular y
enfocar mejor algunas preguntas en la segunda versión que se repetirá en diciembre de este año.


Resultados Encuesta virtual

Los principales resultados fueron:

    ·    Las personas que más visitan Sigob son funcionarios públicos
    ·    La frecuencia que con mayor regularidad es visitado Sigob, es mensual
    ·    La razón más señalada para visitar Sigob, es para conocer los resultados de las políticas del gobierno, muy
         seguida por interés personal
    ·    La gran mayoría de los encuestados si encuentra la información que busca, la califica como buena y cree
         que consultar la información disponible es fácil



                                                         52
       ·   La mayoría de los encuestados considera que Sigob es una buena herramienta de rendición de cuentas del
           Gobierno Nacional a la ciudadanía y que cree que se cumplió entre un 60 y 80% de lo que prometió el
           Gobierno, seguido por los que creen que lo prometido se cumplió entre un 40 y 60%


 II.       Diseño, implementación y experiencia de la operación


       ¾   Contexto General del Programa

El Programa Technical Assistance Loan - T.A.L se diseño como un proyecto de fortalecimiento institucional que
permitió a las entidades participantes superar obstáculos de índole técnico y metodológico para llevar a cabo las
políticas de mejoramiento de calidad de vida de los ciudadanos, a través de la implementación del Sistema de
Protección Social (SPS).

El objetivo principal del Proyecto consistió en ayudar al Prestatario en la ejecución de las actividades formativas de
análisis, asesoría y consenso dentro del DNP, MEN y MPS para promover la gestión con base en resultados; y
fortalecer la capacidad del DNP. MEN y MPS para poner en marcha reformas laborales y sociales del Prestatario.

El Programa se financió a través del Contrato de Empréstito BIRF 7260-CO, en el cual se establecieron tres partes
ejecutoras, con una participación distribuida de la siguiente manera:

                                    Categorías del proyecto: 20 diciembre 2004

                Categoría                    Parte                       Monto              % de
                                                                       (US$ Dólar )     Participación
                    1.      A. Ministerio de la Protección Social             1.060          53
                    2.      B. Ministerio de Educación Nacional                 450          23
                    3.      C.    Departamento       Nacional     de            450          23
                            Planeación
                    4.         Costos Operativos                                   40          2
                            Total Monto (millones)                              2.000         100


Los aspectos metodológicos que se utilizaron para el logro de las actividades de la evaluación fueron: i)
Lineamientos básicos aplicados para el análisis institucional, del flujo de recursos y de operaciones y, ii)
lineamientos referentes a la medición de impactos. El análisis se basó en la metodología de Encuestas de
Seguimiento al Gasto Público (Public Expenditures Tracking Surveys-PETS)-, ya que son instrumentos que
permiten recolectar información acerca de las características de las instituciones que proveen servicios públicos, del
funcionamiento de los flujos financieros, de los sistemas de control y rendición de cuentas y de la magnitud y la
calidad de los bienes públicos que se producen.
Aunque el proyecto de evaluación resulto ser de un grado de complejidad alta, es claro que la elaboración de la
evaluación integral al Sistema General de Participaciones es satisfactoria, debido a que se lograron implementar con
éxitos todas las herramientas metodológicas establecidas desde los términos de referencia.



III.       Factores principales que afectaron la ejecución y los resultados

       ¾   Implementación

Aunque la evaluación del Proyecto se considera como exitoso, se presentó atraso dada las condiciones de
implementación a través de tres entidades del orden nacional, lo cual dificulto en algunas ocasiones el avance en el
tiempo planeado.



                                                         53
Parte A. Fortalecimiento del MPS

Atendiendo lo establecido en el Contrato de Empréstito, Articulo III "Convenios Particulares", Sección 3.01, y en el
Manual Operativo del Proyecto, en el Numeral 3. Procesos para la ejecución del crédito, el Ministerio de la
Protección Social celebró cuatro Convenios Interadministrativos con el Fondo Financiero de Proyectos de
Desarrollo - Fonade para la administración del Proyecto, en los cuales se incluyeron un porcentaje como
remuneración al Fondo por estos servicios, financiado con recursos de contrapartida nacional de acuerdo con el
siguiente detalle:




                                                        54
                   RESUMEN FUENTES DE FINANCIACION CONVENIO MPS ­ FONADE
                                                        Recursos      Recursos
                             Convenio      Adición      Crédito     Contrapartida
                               No.          No.        Externo US   Nacional US
                                                         Dólar         Dólar
                                                            429.907        17.913
                                               1                  0         3.589
                             12 / 195004
                                               2             13.481         2.459
                                               3            389.819        17.976
                            238 / 197049                     34.670         4.486
                            173 / 200814                     89.722        15.163
                            368 / 200831                    116.638        42.618
                                   TOTAL                  1.074.237       104.203

Fuente: UCP ­ MPS ­ Análisis Financiero a 30 de septiembre de 2009 TRM $2.012,67


Parte B. Fortalecimiento del MEN

Atrasos considerables atribuibles al tiempo consumido en los alcances, más específicamente en la definición de los
términos de referencia de la Evaluación. Dada su complejidad, los términos de referencia debieron responder no
solo a las necesidades del Gobierno nacional sino también de los diferentes sectores involucrados. Se debió
consumir mucho más tiempo del previsto, hasta que las entidades involucradas y los diversos comités dieran su
aprobación.

Atrasos considerables al tiempo consumido en los procesos precontractuales para la adjudicación de los contratos,
especialmente por su condición de revisión ex ­ ante.

Cabe mencionar que el proyecto de evaluación integral al Sistema General de Participaciones, fue un proyecto
bastante complejo y requirió de mucho liderazgo por parte de la Dirección de Evaluación de Políticas Públicas
(DEPP), para lograr la coordinación interinstitucional necesaria.

De las actividades asociadas al proyecto la que requirió mayor trabajo técnico y operativo fue la del levantamiento
de información y diseño de los instrumentos para la recolección de la misma. Lo anterior incidió en la duración del
operativo de campo, el cual estaba programado para 1 mes y medio y resultaron ser 3 meses efectivos de trabajo. Lo
anterior no incluye los casi 5 meses de construcción de formularios y rutas de campo.


    ¾   Plazo de Ejecución

El Empréstito se firmo en diciembre de 2004, contemplando como fecha de cierre el 29 de diciembre de 2007, pero
su ejecución se extendió en dieciocho (18) meses más, dadas las siguientes circunstancias:

9   La Ley de Garantías Electores, con vigencia hasta el mes de mayo de 2006, no permitió la contratación directa
    por parte de todos los entes del Estado.
9   Justificación presentada por el ejecutor de la Categoría 3. DNP, quien sustento aumento en los tiempos
    requeridos por parte de la para desarrollar el cronograma de actividades para llevar a cabo la ejecución en la
    evaluación de impacto del Sistema General de Participación (SGP) y lograr el cumplimiento de los objetivos
    planeados del Proyecto.
9   Los cambios en la estructura inicial de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto -UCP; toda vez esta se contemplo
    al inicio de la operación como parte de la organización del Programa de Asistencia a Reformas Sociales ­
    PARS, ejecutado a través del MPS, sin embargo en el año 2006 este programa culminó la etapa de ejecución e


                                                        55
         inició la fase de liquidación, razón por la cual fue necesario replantear la organización para la UCP, solicitando
         continuar a través del Viceministerio Técnico.
9        Los cambios en la Coordinación Técnica del Proyecto, lo cual implico un proceso y tiempo de apropiación del
         proyecto.


         ¾   Recategorización de Recursos

La participación inicial para las entidades ejecutoras, se modificó, teniendo en cuenta que para el desarrollo de la
operación, se definió en el Manual Operativo, Numeral 1. Organización Institucional, que el MPS atendería esta
condición a través de la Unidad Coordinadora del Crédito Externo del Programa de Apoyo a la Reforma de Salud ­
PARS. Sin embargo transcurrido más de un año de ejecución, en el mes de mayo de 2006, el Programa PARS,
culminaba la etapa de ejecución e iniciaba la fase de liquidación, razón fue necesario replantear la organización para
la UCP del T.A.L y solicitar ante el Banco Mundial una modificación al Manual Operativo proponiendo, que:

     "El Ministerio de la Protección Social a través del Viceministerio Técnico, realizará la coordinación,
     ejecución y consolidación de las acciones que se desarrollen a través de los distintos componentes y
     ejecutores del proyecto. De esta forma esta unidad será la coordinadora del Proyecto TAL".

Aceptada esta nueva estructura, se contempló contratar dos consultores para desarrollar las funciones de
Coordinación Técnica y Asesora Financiera, Administrativa y Contable del Crédito.

En el mes de agosto de 2007, evaluando los avances en la ejecución del proyecto se evidenció que aunque el
empréstito se ejecutó con relativa normalidad presentó atraso en la Categoría 1. Fortalecimiento del Ministerio de la
Protección Social - MPS y en la Categoría 3. Fortalecimiento del Departamento Nacional de Planeación - DNP;
razón por la cual fue necesario solicitar una extensión a la fecha de cierre y reclasificación de recursos. Ante la
nueva situación y con el fin de reducir los costos de ejecución la Dirección Ejecutiva consolido las funciones de la
Coordinación Técnica asumiendo en su totalidad la responsabilidad técnica del Proyecto.


         ¾   Operación después del Cierre

Los productos e insumos obtenidos financiados con recursos del Proyecto, en algunos temas fueron implementados
y hace parte de los procesos de las entidades ejecutoras.


 IV.         Evaluación del rol de Banco

             En el Diseño (satisfactorio)

En relación con el diseño, no se presentaron sugerencias relevantes por parte del Banco que permitieran mejorar el
diseño, sin embargo fue importante el apoyo y asesoría del Banco para la construcción de TDR, revisión de
productor para las actividades planeadas durante la ejecución del Proyecto.


    V.       Lecciones Aprendidas


La implementación e institucionalización del proyecto requiere un largo período de tiempo, en la medida que
implica en algunos casos las decisiones del Gobierno Nacional. Si bien, el desarrollo técnico del proyecto fue
bastante satisfactorio, la institucionalización en el MPS y el Sector es un aspecto que implica un trabajo de
concertación y normativo lo cual tomará un tiempo mayor.




                                                              56
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                         56
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Law 1164 of 2007
Law 1151 of 2007
Law 789 of 2002
Law 715 of 2001
Decree 2020 of 2006
Decree 3771 of 2007
Decree 169 of 2008
Decree 2060 of 2008
Decrees 1293 of 2009
Decree 1294 of 2009
Decree 1800 of 2009
Decree 2196 of 2009
CONPES 81 of 2004
CONPES 102 of 2006
CONPES 105 of 2007
Technical Quality Norms NTC 5555 and NTC 5581
Resolutions 2776, 2779 and 2605




                                         57
Map




      58
59
