Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15030CV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
APRIL 22, 1996
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Escudo (CVE)
US$1 = 75 CVE
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCA          Banco Comercial do Atlantico
BCV          Central Bank of Cape Verde (Banco de Cabo Verde)
CCR          Caixa de Credito Rural
CECV         Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde
ECOWAS       Economic Community of West African States
EPZ          Export Processing Zone
FDI          Fund for Industrial Development (Fundo de Desenvolvimento Industrial)
GOCV         Government of Cape Verde
IADE         Entrepreneurial Development Institute (Instituto de Apoyo ao
Desenvolvimento Empresarial)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ILO          International Labor Organization
INPS         Social Security Services (Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social)
ISCV         Insurance Regulatory Commission (Instituto de Seguros de Cabo Verde)
ISPS         Social Security Services (Inshtuto de Seguros e Previdencia Social)
MEC          Ministry of Economic Coordination
MIS           Management Information System
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NDP          Third National Development Plan, 1992-1995
PC           Project Coordinator
PNDT         National Development Plan  for Tourism  (Piano  Nacional de
Desenvolvimento do Turismo)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PROMEX       Export and Investment Promotion Center (Centro de Promo,ao Turistica,
do Investimento e das Exportatoes)
PSCU         Private Sector Coordinating Unit
TACV         Tranporte Aereo de Cabo Verde
USAID        US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIMMRY ................................................... 
L INTRODUCTION ................................................... 1
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT ................................................... 1
A. BACKGROUND ....................................................1
B.  THE PRIVATE SECTOR ................................................... 3
C. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ................................................... 9
D. ROLES OF THE BANK GROUP AND DONOR AGENCIES ................................................... 1 5
m. THE PROJECT ...................................................                                                              16
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, RATIONALE, AND PARTICIPATION ......................................... 16
B. PROJECT DESCR                 ON ...................................................                                        17
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  ................................................... 25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................                                                 27
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ................................................... 27
B.  MONTrORING AND EVALUATION  ................................................... 27
C. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ...................................................                                            28
D. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING ...................................................                                      3 1
E.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ................................................... 32
V. BENEIT.S, JLUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ................................................... 32
A. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .......... .............                                     ............................ 32
B. EMPLOYMENT AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION ...................................................                                      33
C. COST RECOVERY ...................................................                                                           33
D. IMPACT ON GOVERNmENT BUDGET ................................................... 3 3
E. ECONOMC ANALYSIS ...................................................                                                         33
F. RISKS ................................................... 35
VL AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................... 36



Tables
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs Summary .............................. i
Table 2: Estimated Financing Plan ...............................                           i
Table 3: Estimated Project Costs .............................. 26
Table 4: Financing Plan .............................. 26
Table 5: Procurement Arrangements ..............................                           29
Table 6: Allocation of IDA Credit .............................. 31
Table 7: Disbursement of IDA Credit .............................. 31
Annexes
Annex 1        Letter of Private Sector Development Policy
Annex 2        Laws Regarding Export Development
Annex 3        Economic Sectors
Annex 4        Institutions Providing Support to the Private Sector
Annex 5        Selected Financial Sector Topics
Annex 6        Economic Analysis:   1. Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Project
2. Benefits of the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in Mindelo
Annex 7        Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 8        Project Performance Indicators
Annex 9        Implementation Schedule
Annex 10       Project Implementation and Bank Supervision Plan
Annex 11       Project Disbursement Schedule
Annex 12       Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Map IBRD 27394
This opeation wa prepared by a team led by Noel Tshiani (Financial Speciaist and Task Manager, AF5IE) and including
Pbilippe Beuzelin (Private Sector Specialist, Consltant), Vincent Polizatto (Consultant), Jeny Peck (Consultant), Afifedo
oaAlves (Conultant), Fernando Loureiro (Consultant), and Sheni Archndo (Financial Analyst, AF5IE). David Jones
(AFSE), Roberto Barabona (LOAAF), Bernard Abeille (AF5DR), and Sara Gonzalez Flavell (Legal Counsel, LEGAF) also
cotributed to sect   of the report. Loup Brefort and Paul Murgatroyd are the Peer Reviewers. Mr. Birger Fredrikskn and
Ms. Silvia Sagai wre, respctively, the Dpotment Acting Director and the Managing Division Chief for the operation. Mr.
Fanrois Laporte is the Lead Economist, and Mr. Emmerich Schebeck is the Project Advisor.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Cape Verde.
Implementing   Ministry of Economic Coordination.
Agency:
Beneficiaries: Banco de Cabo Verde, Banco Comercial do A4matico, Caixa
Economica de Cabo Verde, Instiuto de Seguros de Cabo Verde,
Imfituto Nacional de Previdencia Social, Centro de Promogao dos
Investimentos e das ERportafoes, Export-Processing Zone
Management Company, private sector enterprises.
Credit          SDR 7.9 million (US$11.4 million equivalent).
Amount:
Terms:          Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment    0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
Fee:           waived for the first year as per Executive Directors' resolution dated April 21, 1988.
Onlending       Not applicable.
Terms:
Financing Plan:  See para. 3.20.
Economic Rate  37%
of Return:
Map:             IBRD 27394



Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(in USS million, net of taxes and duties)
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs
Loca Foreign Total
A. Private Sector                                2.89    3.01     5.90
B. Financial Sector                              0.30    4.05     4.35
C. Project Preparation                           0.10   0.75      0.85
Total Base Costs                                 3.29    7.81    11.10
Physical Contingencies                        0.25    0.49     0.74
Price Contingencies                           0.42    0.45     0.87
Total Project Costs                              3.96    8.75    12.71
Table 2: Estimated Financing Plan
Local  Forcih   Total
IDA                                             2.66    8.75    11.41
Government                                      1.30     -       1.30
Total Financing Plan                            3.96    8.75    12.71



REPUBIUC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
L INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Cape Verde has requested IDA's assistance in financing a program to
implement an export-led development strategy and to create an environment conducive to private
sector growth by removing obstacles to the development of private enterprises, providing support
to private sector institutions, and liberalizing and expanding the financial system. This strategy is
set out in the Government's Letter of Private Sector Development Policy (Annex&  . The
proposed project would finance: (a) a program to strengthen the institutions supporting the
private sector, (b) the development of Mindelo's export-processing zone; and (c) a program to
strengthen the financial system.
1.2   Total project costs are estimated at about US$12.7 million equivalent, net of taxes and
duties, of which IDA would finance about US$11.4 million equivalent. The Government would
contribute about US$1.3 million equivalent.
IL SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. BACKGROUND
2.1   Cape Verde consists of ten islands located 650 kilometers off the coast of Senegal, with a
land area of about 4,036 square kilometers. Only nine of the islands are populated, with half of
the resident population of about 400,000 (in 1992) living on the island of Santiago, mainly in
Praia, the capital city. Only one tenth of the country's land base is arable, which implies a high
population density (808 persons) per square kilometer of arable land. The Sahelian climate, with
prolonged periods of drought, a marked shortage of fresh water supplies in terms of rivers and
springs, and a high natural population growth rate of 2.7% combine to produce intolerable
pressure on the country's fragile agricultural base. Even in good rain years, the country can only
produce 10 to 15% of its total cereal requirements. The poor natural resource base, particularly
with respect to fresh water, and the absence of a mineral resource base, have led to high rates of
emigration, driven even higher in times of drought. As a result, twice as many Cape Verdeans live
abroad as on the islands.
2.2   Development Constraints. Cape Verde's development is hindered by poor natural
resources, prolonged cycles of drought, and small domestic markets. Moreover, the scattered
nature of the islands results in costly conmmunications. After independence in 1975, the
development of a virtualy nonexistent economy into a modern one was a formidable challenge for
the government which chose to perform the role of an entrepreneur in agriculture, industry and
services. Reliance on the private sector was not actively pursued. The government sought
official development assistance and allocated it to the development of public enterprises in key
sectors. The strategy of creating public enterprises to produce for the limited domestic market



2
adversely affected the efficiency and competitiveness of the national economy. This option
deterred both foreign and private investment for years.
2.3   Structure of the Economy. Cape Verde's economy has been traditionally based on
services. The paucity of natural resources, excepting the ocean and an extensive coastline, means
that services, rather than agriculture, have been the mainstay of the economy. In the 1980s, the
service sector accounted for 60% of GDP and employed about 41% of the active population.
Commerce, transport, and public services accounted for 47% of value added. Tourism, however,
is still in too nascent a form to contribute significantly to value added, job creation and export
earnings. Construction and industrial production, consisting largely of light manufacturing, fish
processing and artisanal production, accounted for about 11.5 and 6.5% of the total value added
respectively in the 1980s. The primary sector contributed only about 13% of GDP because of
low agricultural potential and inefficient exploitation of reasonably well endowed fishery
resources (3% of value added) by a public sector dominated industry. The primary sector
employed about 30% of the active population, of which agriculture employed about 24%.
2.4   External Sector. Foreign trade is characterized by modest merchandise export earnings,
a high share of services in total exports, and high merchandise imports. The merchandise export
base is very small in value and diversity of exportable. Export earnings come predominantly from
exports of fish and bananas. Non-traditional exports have marginal importance. Traditionally
Cape Verde's most substantial export earnings come from non-factor services rendered to
international maritime transport, and more recently from international air traffic services.
Maritime services are provided through the port of Mindelo, and air services through Sal
international airport. The economy is highly dependent on imports of food, capital, and
intermediary goods. Emigration is the principal pressure release valve on the Cape Verdean
economy. Emigration is also seen as a key means of escape from poverty. At the same time,
remnittances of emigrants play an important role in the economy and poverty reduction. The
regular flow of remittances is facilitated by confidence in macro-economic management and
adequate communication and transport infrastructure. Between 1989 and 1992, remittances
averaged nearly 12% of GDP.
2.5   The inward-looking policies of the late 1970s and early 1980s proved unsustainable in
terms of good economic performance. Economic growth fell in 1989 to 3.7% and declined
further in 1990-92 due to: (a) declines in public investment as a result of completion of some
major projects and postponement or cancellation of new ones; (b) decrease in demand for
international maritime and air services; (c) poor agricultural outputs as a result of prolonged
drought; and (d) deteriorating performance of the public enterprise sector. In 1993, economic
growth began to recover thanks to higher public investment in economic and social infrastructure
and some private sector investment, particularly foreign, in light manufacturing and fisheries.
Preliminary figures indicate a growth of about 4.5%.
2.6   To address economic and financial imbalances, the post-independence government
adopted in 1988 an outward-oriented strategy intended to privatize public enterprises and to
liberalize trade. Prices of domestic and imported consumer goods have been almost fully
liberalized. A large-scale liberalization of the trade system, which started in late 1991 and was
successfully broadened in 1992 and 1993, has led to a dynamic growth of imports after many



3
years of tight controls. To preserve the living standards of the general population, the
Government is keeping under import monopoly some essential commodities that are also available
in the form of food aid. Although the retail prices of these products reflect the actual CIF import
cost and handling charges, they do not reflect fuly transport and distribution costs to remote
islands. The GOCV is exploring options to liberalizing the prices of these items. In addition, the
foreign exchange allocation system has been streamlined. Foreign exchange is presently aDocated
through the existing commercial banks for all imports, currently covering about 97%  of all
customs items. The authorities are considering lifting the remaining restrictions on payments and
transfers for current international transactions. The lack of a natural or mineral resource base,
combined with surplus labor, dictates a service-oriented, labor-intensive development strategy.
New legislation governing foreign investment, liberalization of domestic and foreign trade and
prices, and privatization, aims to channel the economy towards activities such as export-
processing zones, tourism, offshore banking services, and intermediate labor-intensive industries,
as well as air and maritime services. The government, through multi and bilateral development
assistance, is redefining its role as a provider of modern and efficient services in infrastructure
such as ports, warehouses, and telecommunications.
B. THE PRIVATE SECITOR
1. The Business Environment
2.7   Cape Verde is meagerly endowed with natural resources. However, prospects for private
sector development are promising, given Cape Verde's special advantages: political stability, a
physical environment attractive for tourism, a largely unexploited reserve of seafood products, a
disciplined and relatively well educated labor force and a preferential access to markets in the
European Union, the USA and the countries of the Economic Community of the West African
States (ECOWAS). The formal private sector plays a dominant role in import and domestic
trade, but its contribution is low in manufacturing, tourism and services. The Government has
expressed its intention to make the private sector the driving force of the economy. Legislation
has already been enacted to attract foreign enterprises and provide incentives to exports (Annex
2). Although some major constraints to this development are already being addressed through
Bank Group projects (paras. 2.48-2.49), much remains to be done to develop the private sector.
For instance, a number of private enterprises which have been created in recent years by local
entrepreneurs, targeting both domestic and external markets, are facing difficulties in obtaining
bank financing and have to cope with burdensome administrative procedures resulting in
significant delays.
2.8    A large and growing informal private sector is active in most areas of economic activity.
However, as many informal sector entrepreneurs are engaged in multiple part-time activities, it is
difficult to determine with accuracy the size of the sector. A 1992 study of the artisanal sector by
the ELO estimated that about 23,000 persons were engaed in artisanal activities. According to
official statistics, 30 to 40% of the active population is employed by microenterprises. The main
areas of activities are: (a) retail trade, based mainly on imports from the continent (Senegal and
the Gambia); (b) processing of agricultural and seafood products; (c) fisheries; (d) local



4
production of construction materials; (e) classic artisanal activities such as woodworking, shoe-
making, hairdressing; and (f) small restaurants and bars.
2.9   The manufacturing sector's contribution to the economy has gradually increased from
3.7% of GDP in 1980, to 6.8% in 1985, and 8% in 1990. As of 1994, a total of 101 industrial
enterprises employed 3,300 persons and were categorized as industrial. Of these, 90% were
privately-owned, and 10% were joint ventures between the Government and private investors.
Most industrial enterprises are small: only 17% employ more than 50 workers. The private sector
plays a dominant role in trade which accounts for 20% of GDP and represents one of the most
developed sectors in Cape Verde. This is a legacy from the colonial era when almost everything
consumed in the islands was imported from Portugal by traders.
2.10 Cape Verde's climatic conditions, abundance of beautiful beaches, political stability, and
proximity by air to major European capitals are important assets for the promotion of tourism.
Despite its potential, tourism does not play a significant role in the economy and accounts for only
about 2% of GDP. In 1988, the GOCV decided to give priority to tourism development,
essentially through the private sector. It is estimated that about 1,300 persons are employed in
the sector. The occupancy rates of hotels in Sal and Praia range from 60 to 80%.
2.11   Fisheries, which currently account for less than 3% of GDP, represent another sector in
which Cape Verde has a natural comparative advantage due to the high-value of fish species in the
surrounding waters. Artisanal fishing in Cape Verde is predominant, accounting for about 85% of
all of the fishing activities in the country. About 6% of the sector's total annual catch is
processed into canned fish products and fish meal. Detailed information on the various sectors is
presented in Annex 3.
2. Institutions providing support to the Private Sector
2.12  Local Institutions. Institutional arrangements reflect the unbalanced role of the public
and private sector. In an effort to support private sector development, the Government has
created two institutions, PROMEX and IADE, and the private sector has been organized in a
nascent form. (Detailed information on these institutions is presented in Annex 4 and summarized
below). There are also two trade associations: the Associacao Comercial e Agricola de
Sotavento, which includes commercial enterprises located in the islands of Santiago, Fogo, Brava
and Maio; and the AssociaVao Comercial, Industrial e Agricola de Barlavento, which includes
commercial enterprises in the islands of Sao Vicente, Santo Antao, Sao Nicolau, Sal and
Boavista. In effect, these represent the two main competing centers of economic activity,
Santiago and Sao Vicente.
2.13  To provide greater support to the private sector, two chambers of commerce (federated at
the national level) have been created by grouping professional associations in all sectors of the
economy (trade, manufacturing, construction, civil engineering, transport and fisheries). The two
chambers are responsible for developing a public/private partnership and maintaining a dialogue
with the GOCV regarding the development of the private sector. They are expected to absorb, at
an appropriate time, some of the services currently provided by government agencies. The



5
chambers will also be responsible for organizing an annual forum for private enterprises to further
the dialogue between the Government and the private sector.
2.14 PROMEX was created in 1990 by the Government, with assistance from the US Agency
for International Development (USAID), to assist in export promotion and foreign investment
development. Although withdrawing from Cape Verde at the end of 1995, USAID has
committed to funding part of PROMEX's operating expenses up to mid-1996. In 1992, the
Government revised PROMEX's statutes to give the agency sufficient autonomy to enable it to
fulfill its functions effectively, and PROMEX commenced operations as a one-stop-shop for
foreign investors. Since then, it has played a significant role in the preparation of various laws
necessary to facilitate the establishment of foreign investments in Cape Verde and in attracting
foreign investment to the country. From 1992 to early 1995, PROMEX has attracted five foreign
enterprises which have invested US$8.5 million in light manufacturing. This has resulted in
creating 800 jobs. In October 1995, PROMEX absorbed a similar institution (INATUR) that had
been created in 1993 to promote the tourism sector.
2.15  IADE was created at the beginning of 1992 with the assistance of the African
Development Bank for the purpose of developing entrepreneurial capabilities and improving the
utilization of the installed productive capacity. LADE, which started operating in October 1993, is
expected mainly to provide assistance to small- and medium-size enterprises in technical, financial,
commercial, or organizational areas to improve their productivity and their ability to compete in
domestic and external markets. Until now, IADE has helped very few enterprises. This is due, in
part, to its operating procedures which are complex and cumbersome.
3. Sector issues and constraints
2.16  Despite measures taken by the Government to improve the operating conditions of the
private sector, several constraints remain:
2.17 Legal and Regulatory Constraints. One of the predominant constraints concerns the
procedures for creating and registering a new enterprise. The current legal procedures are
complex, onerous and time-consuming. Registration involves six separate steps and six separate
approvals. It takes a minimum of 55 days and requires the payment of approximately 1.7/o of the
enterprise's capital in registration fees and stamp taxes. These procedures are being reviewed
within the framework of the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project (Cr. 2566-CV)
(para. 2.49), and a new simplified system is expected to be implemented by December 1996.
2.18 Financing. Enterprises find it difficult to obtain support from the banking system to
finance their investments, even when the projects are sound and the documentation well prepared.
Even more disturbing is the length of time it takes a bank to reach credit decisions on corporate
requests. By the time a request is finally approved, the parameters upon which the proposed
investment were based may have changed significantly. The commercial banking system is not
equipped for this type of risk financing, and there are no venture capital nor equity participation
facilities in the country. These issues are being addressed under the proposed project by building
a capacity in the existing financial institutions (through staff and management training) to make



6
them more responsive to the needs of the private sector. Other needed financial vehicles, such as
venture capital and stock transfer mechanisms (para. 2.36), are being developed by other donors
(Sweden) in close coordination with IDA.
2.19 Enterprise Taxation. The fiscal charges levied on enterprises are: 35% tax on profits;
1% tax on transactions, including salaries of employees; five per thousand sales tax paid to the
courts on new contracts; 15% tax on salaries for social security; and 3% or 6% tax for workers
compensation, depending on whether the employee works in an office or at an open air site. In
addition, shareholders pay a flat rate of 15% on dividends, if distributed. This system is complex
to administer and burdensome on enterprises. To address this issue, the National Assembly has
already approved a law simplifying the corporate tax structure and creating a single corporate tax
rate replacing the cascade of rates applied to businesses. A decree specifying the modalities of the
implementation of the law, including the tax rates to be applied, has been issued by the
Government. The simplified tax system has just begun to be implemented and is addressing this
issue.
2.20  The Judicial System. At present, business litigation is handled by the civil court system
with all other types of litigation. This has created a significant judicial backlog resulting in delays
of one to two years in the adjudication of business disputes, leading to uncertainties in the
conduct of business operations. To address this issue and streamline the flow of commercial and
industrial litigation, the ongoing Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project is helping to
strengthen the court system by providing judges with specialized training in commercial litigation.
2.21  Inter-Island and Long Distance Transportation. Transportation of persons and goods
between the islands is presently unreliable, erratic and expensive. This also represents a handicap
for the development of the inter-island tourism industry and the prospective activities of potential
investors. The development of an efficient and reliable inter-island transport system is therefore
an important prerequisite for the growth of the private sector. The GOCV has commissioned a
study to a private consulting firm, NEA Transport Research and Training, on the inter-island
transportation problems and a diagnostic of ARCA VERDE, the public maritime transportation
company. The study, financed by the Government, will be completed by July 1996 and will make
recommendations to address this issue. The GOCV has already decided to disengage ARCA
VERDE from long-distance transportation, leaving this line of business to private companies.
ARCA VERDE has sold two of the five long-distance ships it owns and is aggressively seeking
buyers for the remaining fleet. This would allow ARCA VERDE to concentrate on inter-island
transportation, while private operators would cover export-import transportation.
2.22  Technical Skills. While the level of general education is fairly high, there is an acute
shortage of technical skills in areas important for enterprise operations, such as accounting,
marketing and personnel management. There is a shortage of skilled staff in hotel operations.
However, a technical school was built in late 1995 with European Union funds and is now
operational. The school has started training professionals in civil engineering, construction,
masonry, accounting and data processing. This is expected to go a long way towards solving the
shortage of technical skills.



7
4. Government Strategy for Private Sector Development
2.23 Government Strategy. The Government is pursuing the implementation of a strategy
that aims at: (a) promoting a strong export-oriented manufacturing sector and developing the
tourism and fisheries sectors; and (b) taking specific actions to remove obstacles that are impeding
the growth of domestic private enterprises. The Government's strategy is detailed in a draft
Letter of Private Sector Development Policy (Annex 1). During negotiations. the Government
signed the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy, thereby meeting the only condition of
Board Presentation of the credit.
2.24  The first element of the strategy includes the following:
. In manufacturing, the Government intends to attract foreign enterprises to establish
operations in Cape Verde to take advantage of its relatively low labor costs (one-third of
those prevailing in Europe) and favorable access to the markets for products such as garments
and shoes. To implement the Government's export-led development strategy, PROMEX, in
coordination with the municipality of Mindelo on the island of Sao Vicente, has been
developing an export-processing zone (EPZ) to provide a location with adequate facilities
(water, electricity, roads) where foreign firms interested in Cape Verde can establish their
factories. PROMEX's investment goals for 1995-97 are to attract US$19.0 million in new
investments that will create 1,200 new jobs and produce US$44.0 million in export revenues.
At present, two footwear enterprises from Portugal and a seafood-canning factory are
operational. In addition a garment factory is being built. A study carried out by Plant
Location International, a subsidiary of Price Waterhouse, stressed that to be successful in its
efforts to attract foreign firms, Cape Verde must offer investors adequate infrastructure and
factory space. With the initiation of an active search for investors in Portugal and Asia,
PROMEX concluded that a critical factor affecting the decision of firms to locate in Cape
Verde is the availability of standard factory buildings.
*  In tourism, the Government's objective is to implement its fifteen-year National Development
Plan for Tourism, 1994-2009 (Piano Nacional de Desenvolvimento do Turismo, PNDT)
which was prepared by the National Institute for Tourism, (INATUR). The objectives for the
1994-99 period are to: (a) have 62,000 visitors each year by 1999; (b) have 4,500 hotel rooms
of international standard, (9,100 beds); (c) increase the average length of stay of tourists from
5.9 to 8 days; (d) create 11,000 new jobs in the hotel sector; (e) generate foreign exchange
earnings amounting to USSI 1.0 million during the last year of the plan; (f) promote domestic
and foreign investments in the sector; and (g) increase inter-island tourism. Thirteen new
hotel projects, which would add about 1,500 beds to the country's lodging capacity, have
been identified by private foreign investors with assistance from INATUR. Of these, five have
already been approved or are under construction.
* In fisheries, the objective is to develop the fishing fleet to take advantage of the ample marine
resources which, until now, have not been adequately exploited (para. 2.11).



8
2.25   The second element of the Government's strategy focuses on facilitating the
development of domestic enterprises by improving the business environment in the following
areas:
*  Legal and administrative environment. The Government is taking actions geared to
establishing a legal and administrative environment that is favorable to the operations of
private enterprises. This includes: revised procedures for creating and registering new
enterprises (para. 2.17); significant improvements in customs operations which have speeded
up the clearance of imported goods from two weeks to less than two days; the creation, in
progress, of a separate commercial jurisdiction within each of the regional courts in order to
streamline the flow of commercial and industrial litigations (para. 2.20); and strengthening the
banking sector (para. 2.18).
*  Institutional support to private enterprises. Two chambers of commerce, one for each
group of islands (Sotavento and Barlavento), have been created to represent private
enterprises' interests in trade, manufacturing, construction, civil engineering, transport and
fisheries (para. 2.13).
*  Building private/public partnership. The chambers will be responsible for organizing, at
least twice a year, a forum for private enterprises to further the dialogue between the
Government and the private sector. The project will provide support for the organization of
such forums. These forums will give the opportunity to government agencies dealing with
private sector development and private enterprises to meet and discuss issues concerning the
private sector.  The resolutions or recommendations made will be incorporated into
Governnent policies affecting the sector.
*  Infrastructure. The Government is taking action to remove bottlenecks in the transport
(para. 2.21) and public utility sectors that are impeding the operations and development of
private enterprises. Some of the bottlenecks in the public utility sector (high costs of energy
and water, unavailability of good water, lack of autonomy of the energy company) are being
addressed either in the on-going restructuring of Electra, or in a proposed Energy/Water
project expected to be presented to the Board of Directors in September 1997.
*  Training. Through the creation of a training fund, financed under the Bank Basic Education
and Training Project (Cr. 2675-CV), the Government is providing resources for improving the
technical skills of workers.
2.26 The strategy being implemented is appropriate and, if pursued with determination, should
begin to produce beneficial results shortly.  In addition to creating employment, foreign
enterprises settling in Cape Verde will likely heighten the level of technological expertise in the
country and will contribute to the training of workers. It is also expected that, as the export
sector grows, additional needs for production and service activities will be generated, resulting in
further development of domestic enterprises.



9
2.27 Recent Performance and Policies. To translate into action its commitment to let the
private sector play a leading role in the country's economic development, the Government has
enacted the following measures: the law on Foreign Investments (lei 89/IV/93 of December 13,
1993), the law on Incentives to Exports (lei 92/1V/93 of December 15, 1993), and the law on
Export-Processing Zones (lei 991IV/93 of December 31, 1993). Information about these laws is
presented in Annex 2.
C. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
1. Overview
2.28 Cape Verde's financial system consists of the Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV), the central
bank; the Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA), and the Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde
(CECV), the former postal savings bank. There are also two insurance companies: the state-
owned Companhia de Seguros Garantia (Garantia) and the privately-owned Companhia
Caboverdiana de Seguros Impar (Impar). The social security services of the former Inslituto de
Seguros e Previdencia Social (ISPS) were reorganized in 1991 under the Instituto Nacional de
Previdencia Social (INPS), or Previdencia, within the administrative jurisdiction of the MEC. A
small rural credit fund, Caixa de Credito Rural (CCR), has recently been established by the MEC.
As of December 31, 1994, combined gross assets of the financial sector, including the BCV,
totalled approximately CVE 49 billion (US$664 million). When excluding BCV and insurance
companies, BCA's assets represent 900/e of the commercial banldng sector. The Government
aims to reduce BCA's market share to no more than 50%/0 within the next three years through
Caixa Economica's rapid growth (averaging 30% a year), the entry of foreign banks, and
downsizing of BCA (Annex 1).
2.29 The financial sector is poorly developed and suffers from serious macroeconomic
constraints, including a small domestic market, and an inefficient public sector, heavily dependent
on treasury financing. Additionally, there are persistent fiscal imbalances, absence of a secure and
reliable payment system, and lack of an effective regulatory and investment framework to
stimulate sector and national development. Substantial efforts are currently being devoted to
revising the legal infrastructure with support from the World Bank under the Public Sector
Reform and Capacity Building Project (Cr. 2566-CV). The country enjoys a relatively stable
monetary system which should provide a good basis for the satisfactory operation and gradual
expansion of a market-oriented financial sector.
2. Institutional Structure of the Financial Sector
2.30 The Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV) is responsible for conducting monetary policy,
supervising banks and mnanaging foreign exchange reserves. It falls within the administrative
purview of the Minister of Economic Coordination. BCV used also to be the country's only
commercial bank, but under the structural reform progran agreed upon with the World Bank and
the IMF, the commercial activities of the BCV were transferred in 1993 to a new institution,
Banco Comercial do Atlantico. Technical advice to support this process was financed under the
project preparation facility of the proposed Capacity Building Project for Private Sector



10
Promotion. The only commercial banking function remaining at the BCV is a small recovery unit
responsible for collecting residual delinquent private sector commercial loans which were not
transferred to the Banco Comercial do Atlantico. Although BCV has occasionally exceeded the
legal limit on government deficit financing (10% of previous year's revenues), its overall approach
to government credit has traditionally been conservative.
2.31  The Banco Comercia do Adantico (BCA) was established by the Government in
September 1993 to assume BCV's former commercial activities, and is the dominant commercial
bank, holding 900/% of all deposits. The bank's financial condition quickly deteriorated as a result
of the large amount of problem loans that were transferred to the new bank and of disequilibrium
in the asset and liability mix. As a result, BCA's initial authorized capital of CVE 500 million
(US$6.6 million) was rapidly depleted. In January 1995, the GOCV agreed to increase BCA's
capital by CVE 500 million to be paid in two equal tranches. The first tranche was paid in June
1995 and the second in December 1995, increasing the capitalization ratio to 10% on a weighted
risk basis. A detailed analysis of the BCA is provided in Annex 5.
2.32 Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (CECV)--created from the former post office savings
bank and money-transfer organization in 1993--is the second commercial bank, and is wholly
Government-owned (through the MEC and three public enterprises). Government plans to sell a
stock issue to the public in early 1996. All remaining shares of the Government will be offered to
the public by 1997. CECV is rapidly becoming an important institution in the Cape Verdean
market. The central bank is permitting it to progressively enter new lines of business, including
international trade transactions, such as letters of credits. Detailed information on its operations
and financial situation is presented in Annex 5.
2.33  Cax. de Credito Rura (CCQ. In late 1994, in response to the difficulties of agricultural
and fishing companies in obtaining bank credit, and in an effort to stimulate rural development,
the Government authorized the establishment of CCR. CCR has an authorized capital of CVE
180 million (US$2.4 million), to be totally subscribed by the Government. The capital has yet to
be fully paid to allow CCR to become completely operational. It is envisioned that CCR will
coordinate with NGOs and bilateral projects involved in rural credit. The institution has a policy
of lending at below market rates: 8% for short-, 90/o for medium- and 10%/. for long-term loans,
while commercial rates are between 9 and 14%, respectively. As stated in its Letter of
Development Policy, the Government is committed to remove the subsidies, to subject CCR to he
same credit policies as the other commercial banks, and to divest its shareholding no later than
December 1997 (Annex 1).
2.34  The Insurance Sector. Following years of stagnation, domestic insurance activity has
begun to expand (30%/. in 1993, 15% in 1994). There are two companies, the largest of which,
Conyanhia de Seguros Garandia (Garanha), is Government-owned, and was created in 1991 to
assume the commercial insurance business of the former Instituto de Seguros e Previdencia
Social (ISPS) which had combined commercial and social security activities. It controls about
two-thirds of the insurance market. Most of this is mandatory motor vehicle coverage (CVE 100
million) and maritime risk insurance (CVE 107 million). In 1993, earnings, net of increased
reserves and regulatory provisions, were reported at CVE 20.2 million (USS269,000). Premiums



11
are essentially invested either with the commercial banks (CVE 289 million), or in short-term
treasury bills (CVE 100 million), which became available during the past year. The company also
holds a 13% participation in the Caixa Economica and has recently invested in residential real
estate. The other insurance company, Companhia Caboverdiana de Seguros Inyar (Inpar) is
privately owned, founded in 1991 as a joint venture between Portuguese (Imperial & Marconi:
50%) and local investors. On January 1, 1994, Impar was capitalized at CVE 200 million
(US$2.7 million).
2.35  The Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (INPS, or Previdencia), was formed in
1990, following the reorganization of ISPS and the transfer of commercial insurance activities to
Companhia Garantia de Seguros. [NPS manages the social security funds for private sector
workers, and its services have been expanded to include disability compensation, death benefits,
and maternity leave. Previdencia is the country's second largest financial institution, after BCA,
with total assets of CVE 3.8 billion (US$51 million). Recent legislative changes, including
allowing Previdencia to receive interest on bank deposits, give the potential to become a
significant force in an expanded financial sector.
2.36 Other Financial Institutions. A law passed in July 1994 authorized the opening of
representative offices of foreign banks, subject to specific authorization and highly restrictive
conditions. Banco Totta e AVores (Lisbon) established a branch office in Praia at the end of 1995,
and Banco Nacional Ultramarino (Lisbon) opened a representative office in Praia at the end of
1995. A second law, passed at the end of 1995, authorized the creation of privately-owned
foreign exchange agencies which can engage in retail trading of foreign bank notes and travelers'
checks; however, none has yet received an operating license. Over the past year, the IFC has
financed preliminary studies to organize a leasing company in Cape Verde. They are currently
working with Banco Fomento Portugal and a group of local investors to organize a privately-
managed leasing company. To facilitate public enterprise privatization, and to provide additional
alternatives to investors seeking higher risk returns, GOCV has requested aid from Sweden to
establish a modest capital market or stock transfer mechanism. A technical implementation
report was presented to the Government in June 1995. It is anticipated that the proposed bolsa
de valores will be operational in 1996, and Sweden has agreed to fund the start-up costs.
2.37 Regulatory Responsibilities. Responsibility for bank regulation and supervision lies with
BCV under the ultimate authority of the Ministry of Economic Coordination (MEC). Supervision
of the insurance sector is provided by the Instdto de Segumrs de Cabo Verde (ISCV), which
was set up for this purpose in 1992 with the liberalization of the insurance industry, under the
administrative responsibility of the MEC.
3. Major issues and constraints in the financial system
2.38  Institutional issues. Institutional weakness and shortage of trained and experienced staff
are the most important issues in the financial sector, affecting virtualy al the key institutions
(BCV, BCA, CECV, INPS, and ISCV). All these institutions are either new, or were developed
in a completely different economic framework.



12
* The BCV in its present form and with its present duties is less than three years old, and
despite substantial technical support from the IMF and the Banco de Portugal, needs
strengthening particularly in the areas of banking supervision and financial instrument
development. In the area of bank regulation and supervision, for example, it has only three
poorly-trained bank supervisors. It has limited human and technical capacity to assemble
financial and economic data in support of monetary policy, or to draft regulations and
legislation to fill the remaining substantial gaps in the prudential regulatory and legal
framework. The payment system is inadequate and does not provide a reliable support for the
development of the financial sector. Given the immaturity of the rest of the financial system, it
is essential that BCV should be able to provide strong professional and innovative leadership.
* The BCA, the predominant commercial bank, is poorly managed and in serious financial
distress (see Annex 5). Its future viability can be assured only by a restructured management
team strengthened with new competent local or expatriate professional bankers, and through
strong actions designed to change the bank's management, its culture, policies, procedures
and practices. Areas of particular weaknesses are: internal accounting and administrative
controls, internal policies and procedures, lending practices, strategic and tactical planning,
credit and portfolio risk management, asset liability management, financial planning and
budgeting, foreign exchange risk management, and the management information systems.
BCA's accounting systems and practices are so inadequate that it is unable to maintain its
financial accounts properly. External auditors recently could not certify the accounts because
of the unreliability of the accounting data, and account statements are sent to clients with six-
to nine-month delays and are often inaccurate. The Management Information System (MIS) is
not capable of providing even the most basic management information. The broad framework
for the financial and institutional strengthening of the BCA has been discussed and agreed
with the GOCV (Annex 5). The main objective is to correct BCA's most serious weaknesses
in order to proceed with its privatization as soon as possible. With this in mind, an
experienced commercial banker with twenty years of service with Banco Nacional
Ultramarino in Portugal was appointed as bank president in February 1995.
* The poor performance of BCA makes the performance of the smaller commercial bank,
CECV most critical. This bank has managed to limit involuntary lending, such as overdrafts,
and has demonstrated a capacity to operate without government interference. It has a low-
cost structure, dynamic management and well-focused growth objectives. The intention is
that it should continue to grow fast from its present very limited staffing and institutional base
to take a larger market share (from BCA) while maintaining this good performance, and with
a view to rapid privatization. However, there is still room for improvement, particularly in the
areas of management policies, procedures and practices (internal controls, lending practices,
strategic and tactical planning, asset liability management, foreign exchange risk management,
and management information systems). This implies substantial technical support needs,
including staff and management training, MIS upgrades, and preparation of business and
privatization plans.
* The INPS, which is the second largest financial institution in the country, also requires
institutional and technical strengthening, even though it is currently in fairly good financial
health. In 1992, the Government commissioned a study to ILO to review INPS's activities.



13
The study focused on INPS's operations, investment policies, internal controls and staff
qualifications to meet the mandated goals. The study made a number of recommendations to
improve INPS's overall efficiency: internal reorganization, strengthening of the investment
department, improvement of the actuarial capabilities, management and staff training, and
need for investment diversification. Many of the recommendations of an ILO evaluation in
1993 still need to be implemented, including those relating to restoring actuarial equilibrium.
Staff is inadequately trained, both in accounting and social security administration. Upgrades
are required of the management information system (MIS), relating to software and
equipment.
ISCV, the insurance regulatory commission, is not in a position to competently fulfill its
regulatory mandate due to inadequate and poor quality staffing, poor material resources, and
lack of enforcement authority, which make the overall supervision of the industry very poor.
2.39  Interbank payments system. The complete absence of a rapid and reliable interbank
payments system is a substantial bottleneck to financial sector development, and to the
development of the private sector. The organization of clearing and settlement functions, the
efficient transfer of interbank funds, and the institution of risk containment measures all remain to
be done. Moreover, Cape Verde still does not have the legal and data communications
infrastructure to allow fast and secure payments in the economy, and facilitate the emergence of
new payments instruments.
2.40  There is a serious lack of reliable information to support sound financial sector decisions
both at commercial banks and the central bank. In commercial banks, this issue is evidenced by
the lack of a well-functioning credit risk centralization system to allow for an exchange of credit
information between banks in the credit evaluation process. Such a lack of basic data on
borrowers affects negatively the central bank's ability to formulate and implement well-thought
out monetary policies.
2.41  Legal and regulatory issues. Continuous changes in the financial sector necessitate
further changes in the regulatory framework in the banking and insurance sectors.
*  In anticipation of the separation of the commercial and development lending functions from
the BCV in 1993, a new framework of laws and regulations for the central bank and other
financial institutions was prepared with cooperation from Banco de Portugal and implemented
in 1993. With the opening up of the banking sector to foreign competition and the creation of
new local financial institutions, the current banking laws need updating to reflect the new
business environment. Major areas of banking regulation that need revision include limits on
concentration of credit risks, minimum loss provisions, limits on equity participation, limits on
investment in fixed assets, loans to insiders and connected parties, classification of assets, and
treatment of interest on non-performing assets. A detailed assessment of the current banking
regulations and supervisory system is presented in Annex 5.
* The commercial insurance sector also has some specific regulatory problems. These stem
from the imposition of a subsidized, mandatory motor vehicle premium rate structure which



14
does not reflect the risk in the industry, a lack of support to insurance business practices, and
the need to clarify reinsurance guidelines.
4. Government strategy for financial sector reforms
2.42  Liberalization of Cape Verde's highly regulated financial market has been a primary
component of the Government's economic reform policy launched in 1990. The strategy adopted
has included the following basic components: (a) strengthening the role of the BCV;
(b) promoting a competitive banking industry; (c) broadening private ownership of financial
institutions; (d) deepening financial intermediation; and (e) reforming the insurance sector.
2.43  Strengthening BCV's role, by assigning its commercial and development lending
activities to the BCA and restructuring the BCV as a well-functioning central bank, has been a
basic objective in the financial sector reform. Following its restructuring, the BCV has focused on
its primary role of conducting monetary policies and managing foreign reserves. Recently, the
BCV authorized banks to adjust rates on market supply and demand conditions and to reflect
credit risk. Also, following BCV restructuring, a strict lending regime has been applied by BCV
to limit Government's borrowing to 10% of the prior years' revenues. However, additional
assistance to the Supervision Department is still required, particularly in the areas of on-site
inspections and enforcement of prudential regulations. To this end, external financial and
diagnostic audits of the two commercial banks were completed in May 1995, financed by a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) under this project.
2.44  Introduction of competition in the commercial banking sector by the establishment of
BCA and through transformation of the CECV into a full-service bank has been a primary focus
of banking reform. Initial problems with BCA would be addressed in this project. Competition
has been further intensified with the opening of a representative office of the Lisbon-based Banco
Tolla e AVores, which will probably be converted into a full branch or subsidiary. In addition,
Banco Fomento of Portugal is envisaging to set up a leasing operation which should allow for the
provision of important new and competitive financial products to serve the expanding needs of the
private sector.
2.45  Reducing the direct role of Government in the economy by broadening the private
ownership of financial institutions is another important element of the Government's strategy
for the development of the financial sector. This follows up on the privatization and restructuring
of the public enterprise sector which has been a key element of the Government's reform agenda
and is now accompanied by a public awareness campaign to broaden and deepen the ownership of
the reforms and diminish the likelihood of a social or political backlash. Privatization of the state-
owned commercial insurance company and of the commercial banks should help to mobilize
additional capital resources and support the development of private sector initiatives.
2.46  In an attempt to absorb the excess liquidity in the financial system and to offer alternative
investment opportunities to financial institutions, the GOCV issued in early 1995 a series of
bonds and treasury bills, with assistance from the BCV and the IMF. Of the total amount
issued, CVE 6 billion (in nominal terms) in treasury bonds (40% up to five years and 60% up to



15
30 years) were bought by BCA, while CECV bought about CVE 500 million. The bonds were
issued at rates ranging between 5 and 10%, with an average of 8.5%.
2.47 Concerning the reforms of the insurance sector, Government policy is to promote
competition in order to maximize efficiency. The Government has already separated the publicly-
owned insurance company from social security insurance activities (para. 2.34), and has opened
the sector to private and foreign competition. The creation of ISCV, the insurance regulatory
commission, was a necessary complement to safeguard investors/clients. The Government intends
to revise the regulatory and supervisory framework to strengthen ISCV. Legislation has been
passed to promote the increased use of insurance services.
D. ROLES OF THE BANK GROUP AND DONOR AGENCIES
2.48 IDA Involvement in the Private and Financial Sectors. IDA has been involved in the
private and financial sectors through several operations. In the private sector, IDA provided,
through BCV, a line of credit (now fully disbursed) for the promotion of private industries under
the Industrial, Finance and Promotion Project (Cr. 1579-CV). The Project Implementation
Completion Report concluded that the project made an important contribution in financing the
development of private sector activities. Through the Privatization Technical Assistnce Project
(Cr. 2377-CV, approved in FY92 in the amount of US$4.2 million equivalent, with a closing date
of June 1997), IDA is assisting the Government in: (a) reviewing and adapting the legal
framework to make it more responsive to the private sector's development needs; (b) promoting
private-sector development in areas offering good prospects for growth and export potential;
(c) improving the accounting and auditing standards; and (d) privatizing public enterprises.
2.49 Through the Public Sector Reform and Capacity-Building Project (Cr. 2566-CV,
approved in FY94 in the amount of US$8.1 million equivalent, with a closing date of Decenber
1998), IDA is providing assistance in: (a) the revision of commercial and labor legislation;
(b) specialized training in business law for magistrates and other members of the legal profession;
(c) the establishment of specialized jurisdictions to dispose of legal disputes; and (d) the provision
of modern, computerized facilities for specialized legal services dealing with company registry,
notary services, and other business activities.  The Transport and Infrastructure Project
(Cr. 2466-CV, approved in FY93 in the amount of US$12.5 equivalent, with a closing date of
June 1998), is assisting in the removal of several infrastructure bottlenecks interfering with the
development of the private sector through: (a) the modernization of the port of Porto Grande on
the Sao Vicente island; and (b) the reorganization of shipping activities under an Action Plan to
redesign the institutional framework and provide the proper incentives to private ship owners. In
the fmancial sector, under the Project Preparation Facility of the proposed project, IDA has
provided assistance to the Government in the design and launching of a strategy which included,
most notably, the separation of commercial banking and monetary authorities' functions which
were both originally performed by the BCV.
2.50 Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. The proposed project builds
on lessons learned from the Industrial, Finance and Promotion Project which encountered some
start-up problems, but achieved its objective of creating the institutional structures needed to
promote and stimulate the development of the industrial sector. These lessons are: (a) the need to



16
create the policy environment and the industrial regulatory framework conducive to accelerating
the private sector-led industrialization process; and (b) the need to use, to the extent possible,
private institutions to assist private enterprises. To apply these lessons, the proposed project
would strengthen the key financial and private sector institutions to allow them to play an active
role in the development of the private sector. The project also complements the Government's
effort to improve the legal and regulatory framework currently being undertaken through the
ongoing Public Sector Reform and Capacity-Building Project.
2.51  Role of Donor Agencies in Private Sector Development. Several donors are providing
various forms of assistance to help develop the private sector.  In addition to the Bank's
Privatization Technical Assistance Project which helps the Government privatize and restructure
public enterprises, USAID will continue to finance PROMEX's operations until mid-1996
(although it is withdrawing from Cape Verde), while the African Development Bank and the
African Development Fund are financing IADE. Other donors have been providing assistance to
small and medium-size enterprises, as well as for the development of the agricultural and fisheries
sectors.
IH. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECT VES, RATIONALE, AND PARTICIPATION
3.1   Project Objectives. The project's long term development objectives are: (a) employment
creation in the formal sector; and (b) a well functioning financial sector.  The specific
implementation objectives are: (a) for the private sector, to enhance the country's foreign
exchange earnings, attract foreign investments, and improve the performance of private
enterprises; and (b) for the rinancial sector, to enhance the functioning of the BCV as a
monetary authority and improve financial intermediation through strengthening of banks and non-
banking institutions.
3.2   Rationale for IDA Involvement. IDA's involvement in the private and financial sectors
of Cape Verde forms an integral part of the Country Assistance Strategy which was discussed by
the Board of Executive Directors in February 1993 and is consistent with the Government's
objective of promoting the private sector as the main vehicle for the country's development. As a
lender of last resort to supplement assistance from other donors (Caisse Fran aise de
Developpement, the European Union, Cooperation Luxembourgeoise, USAID, and the Swiss, the
Norwegian and the Portuguese Governments), IDA's support under the proposed project would
be critical to the success of Cape Verde's Government program to: (a) develop a strong and
dynamic private sector; (b) attract foreign investments for export activities; (c) develop the
potential of its tourism sector; and (d) strengthen the financial sector.
3.3   Participatory Approach. For the preparation of this project, particular emphasis was
placed on a participatory approach whereby the identification of major obstacles to the
development of the private sector was made during extensive consultations and interviews with
private sector enterprises, individual businessmen, commercial and industrial associations,
institutions supporting the development of the private sector, commercial banks, and GOCV to



17
ensure project ownership and a realistic project implementation approach. The areas and scope
of intervention, the budget for each component, the implementation schedule, monitoring
procedures, and performance indicators were also developed through dialogue with key
stakeholders.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPrION
3.4   The project would provide assistance to the Government of Cape Verde in capacity
building in the private and financial sectors. In the private sector, the project would support
PROMEX's efforts to: (a) develop export and tourism activities; (b) establish a video-
conferencing facility; (c) launch an international marine registry for which Cape Verde has been
identified as having a clear comparative advantage; and (d) develop the export-processing zone
(EPZ) in Mindelo. In the financial sector, the project would finance: (a) technical support to
modernize the macro infrastructure for financial sector operators, including: the design and
development of an effective payments system; the review and update of the legal framework for
the financial sector; and assistance to the BCV to strengthen the supervisory function and
redesign and implement an integrated economic and financial data base; and (b) assistance to
BCA, CECV, INPS, and ISCV, including training, audits, and management information systems.
Assistance to both commercial banks will be provided to prepare them for privatization within the
next three years.
1. The Private Sector Component (US$5.90 million)
a. Institutional Support to PROMEX (US$5.45 million)
(i) Development of export manufacturing activities (US$0.45 million)
3.5   PROMEX  is the export and investment promotion center responsible for the
implementation of the Government export-led development strategy (para. 2.14). The project
would support PROMEX's efforts to help domestic enterprises expand their exports through
seminars and workshops by training their staff and managers to meet the requirements of export
activities. Participating enterprises would pay for the training received to ensure appropriate cost
recovery.  It would also finance studies necessary for the implementation of the export
development strategy: (a) a study on raw materials for footwear and garment factory; (b) a study
on Cape Verde's competitiveness in light manuficturing; and (c) market research to promote
export products. To establish and maintain a satisfiwtory level of technical excellence at
PROMEXY the project will finance training programs locally and/or abroad for its staff in
accounting, computer applications, investments, marketing and management. In addition,
PROMEX will carry out a media campaign to inform the business community about its services
and the support that it can provide in developping the exports.
(ii) Devdopment of tourism activities (USS1.32 million)
3.6   The project would support PROMEX's promotion activities in the tourism sector by
financing activities to attract foreign investment in the sector, including two promotional
canpaigns to show Cape Verde's tourism potential to prospective hotel investors and stimulate



18
tourism demand for Cape Verde. The latter would include the preparation of promotional
materials as well as campaigns in the most promising tourism markets, including Portugal, France
and Germany. The project would also finance the establishment of three information desks for
tourists in Praia, Mindelo, and Sal (equipment and operating costs) to provide them with maps
and documentation. Periodic surveys of departing tourists would also be financed to monitor
their level of satisfaction and maintain hotel services at a high level of quality. The project will
also finance training of PROMEX staff in tourism promotion activities. Finally, the project would
finance a one-mile road and amenity enhancement in the area of Santa Maria which, on the island
of Sal, is targeted for hotel development. These are essential to the actual hotel sites, and have
been identified by the tourism sector consultants employed by INATUR as necessary prerequisites
for attracting private investors to develop beach front hotels.
(iii) Development of an export processing zone (EPZ) in Mindelo
(US$2.76 million)
3.7   The development of the EPZ in Mindelo is an essential element in the successful
implementation of the Government export-led development strategy as the existence of such
facilities is a key factor in the initial relocation decision for foreign enterprises that are exploring
alternative locations to establish their production facilities. The value of EPZs as a long-term
approach to industrial development is a controversial subject. However, Cape Verde is a largely
unknown offshore manufacturing location seeking to establish itself in competition with locations
that are well known and/or have already an EPZ and, as discussed in para. 2.24, in the short term,
the Government will need to act as a catalytic agent for private investment. The objective of this
sub-component is to make a contribution to the establishment of the EPZ by financing:
Standard factory buildings. The project would finance: (a) the completion of three factory
buildings in the export-processing zone of Mindelo (except the cost of the metallic structures
financed by the Government of Luxembourg on a grant basis)--IDA financing will mostly be
for the floor preparation, the connections for electricity, water and sewers; and (b) the
construction of up to four new factory buildings, financed by the IDA credit. will be
undertaken only after the Luxembourg-financed shells have been rented out (condition of
disbursement) as evidenced by a firm rental contract which includes a three month non
refundable deposit or a payment guarantee from a private commercial bank for an equivalent
amount. The factory shells would be owned by the government who would hand them over to
PROMEX for management and rental to private enterprises. PROMEX would charge the
companies using these buildings a fee for rental and for services provided in the EPZ. The
fees will be calculated in such as way that PROMEX would cover its management and
operating costs (including the maintenance of facilities) and make a 5-10% profit.
* In-factory training of workers. To prepare unskilled and unemployed young Cape Verdean
to acquire needed skills and become readily available for work in the EPZ, the project would
finance the cost of apprenticeship stipends (about US$57 per month) for 1,200 individuals,
estimated at US$408,000 over a five-year period, while they undergo in-factory training for a
total of six months during project implementation. The cost of organizing the training
(trainers and materials) would be met from the Training Fund of the IDA-financed Basic



19
Education and Training Project (Cr. 2675-CV), approved in FY95. The Training Fund
finances only part of the cost of training to guarantee a cost-recovery procedure whereby the
employer takes on an increasingly larger share of the training costs. This Fund is managed by
a tripartite autonomous board including employers. During negotiations. it was agreed that
PROMEX will be included in this tripartite autonomous board to ensure effective
coordination of the in-factory apprenticeship program and other training programs benefiting
from the Training Fund. A detailed training program for the first year will be finalized prior
to credit effectiveness. The number of apprentices to be trained is based on estimates
obtained from firms which have expressed an interest in investing in Cape Verde. Since
companies would be competing for the same pool of apprentices, incentive payments to
apprentices in addition to the stipends financed by the project would be borne by private
companies. The payment of minimum apprenticeship stipends is a common practice in Cape
Verde where apprenticeship regulation includes this provision. It is also considered necessary
to attract foreign investors who have to weigh the cost of the relatively low-skilled Cape
Verdean workers with that of often better trained workers in competitor countries with
EPZs, such as Morocco and Tunisia.
Support to PROMEX  for the management of the export-processing zone.  The
arrangement currently envisioned for the operation of EPZ is as follows: the land and the
physical infrastructure of the zone will be the property of a real estate company whose
shareholders will be the GOCV and the Municipality of Mindelo. The management of the
zone itself will be carried out by PROMEX until the number of companies is sufficient to
justify the transfer of management responsibilities to a private company on a concession basis.
The Project will assist PROMEX by financing the initial start up costs for the management of
the EPZ. Promex has already initiated contacts with several potential export processing zone
managers and some of them have expressed interest in managing the zone as soon as the
minimum number of firms is reached, which is expected to be within two years.
(iv) Establishment of an international marine registry (US$0.24 million)
3.8   A 1994 study for developing offshore activities, carried out by Nathan Associates with
USAID financing, concluded that, because of its geographic location, its existing ship repair
facilities and its long maritime tradition, Cape Verde has a definite comparative advantage for the
operation of an open international marine registry. The project would help set up such a registry
in the General Directorate of the Merchant Navy in the Ministry of the Sea, by financing office
equipment, staff training and additional consultancy services aimed at facilitating the registration
of shipping companies. The study further recommended to the GOCV to enter into a partnership
agreement with a firm specialized in the promotion of ship registries. Compensation of the
partner would be through a profit-sharing arrangement with GOCV. The project would finance
the hiring of a short-term consultant to assist GOCV to identify and select a partner and negotiate
the agreement with the selected firm. Once a participation arrangement is made, an action plan
for the operation and the promotion of the registry will be developed jointly by GOCV and the
partner. This plan will be submitted for IDA's review and approval.



20
(v) Establishment of a ideo-conferencing facility (US$0. 15 million)
3.9   Various studies focusing on private sector development in Cape Verde have identified
international as well as internal communications as one of the main infrastructure obstacles to
economic activity. Video-conference technology allows real-time virtual meetings to take place
between two or more sites located anywhere in the world. It is fast developing world-wide as a
cost-efficient substitute to actual human travel, particularly where international communication is
involved, as satellite links are insensitive to distance. The use of video-conference is by now
sufficiently well established in business practices and is part of the communications infrastructure
that international companies considering locating in Cape Verde would expect. The project
would finance consultancy services and equipment for the establishment of such facility, to be
initially owned by the Government and available for use to the private sector on a cost plus basis.
The facilities would be sold to the private sector as soon as possible.
(vi) Private sector coordination services (US$0.45 million)
3.10  To coordinate complementary activities in private sector development supported by a
number of donors, and to build up long-term capacity, through training, within the permanent
structures charged with private sector development, the project would help the GOCV set up a
Private Sector Coordinating Unit (PSCU), within PROMEX, which has a major role to play in
private sector development and has successfully fulfilled its mandate.  One of the Unit's
responsibilities during project implementation would be to organize the training of the staff of the
key stakeholders. This arrangement would permit economies of scale as the PSCU would use
PROMEX's support capacity. The project would finance the operating expenses of the PSCU,
including salaries of contractual staff (para. 4.1).
b. Support To Domestic Enterprises (US$0.53 million)
3.11  Domestic enterprises suffer from a shortage of technical skills both at the professional and
the managerial level. This results in low productivity and failure to exploit market opportunities.
The project would address this urgent need by providing technical support to these enterprises
through training programs and through management consulting. Both types of assistance would
be managed by the two chambers of commerce. As enterprises in all sectors of economic
activities are expected to be affiliated with these institutions, the assistance program would reach
the majority of the Cape Verdean private sector. Additional actions in support of domestic
enterprises (i.e. design of a strategy for micro-enterprise development and strengthening of the
public / private partnership) are also described below.
* Training. The project would finance training of managers and staff of domestic enterprises
to improve their capabilities. The first step in designing the training program would consist of
an assessment by the two chambers of commerce of the training needs of their members. This
would be a relatively short stock-taking exercise, on the basis of which the training program



21
for the first year would be developed. It is expected that, during each quarter, starting in
September 1996, courses would be given by selected local consultants in at least three areas
of enterprise operations, such as accounting, marketing and production management.
Participating enterprises would pay a fee for their staff members attending the courses which
would ensure the long-term sustainability of the program. The proposed project would
finance: (a) the setting up and equipment (including computers and video equipment) of the
training rooms in the two chambers of commerce; and (b) fees of local trainers.
* Consulting services would be provided to help private enterprises solve their operational
problems. This could include a wide variety of assignments, for example preparing a
marketing plan or designing and implementing a cost accounting system. A specific person
would be designated in each of the two chambers of commerce to manage these services.
They would be responsible for identifying consultants (individuals and firms) capable of
providing high quality assistance, receiving requests from enterprises, advising in the selection
of consultants, reviewing the proposals to ensure that the costs are reasonable, and monitoring
the assignment. Procurement and selection procedures would be laid down in a procedural
manual, and subject to Bank and Government scrutiny to ensure transparency. Local
consultants would be used in the program but, when necessary, foreign consultants would be
hired. The project would finance part of the cost of the consulting assignment. During
negtiations. agreement was reached on a cost-sharing formula by which the contribution of
the enterprises will be as follow: 25% for consultant contracts under US$2.500. 35% for
contracts between US$2.501 and US$10.000, and 70% for contracts over USS10.000. Any
enterprise would be eligible for such an assistance only once during the project
implementation period, and the maximum amount allowed for each eligible beneficiary would
be US$15,000.
* During the preparation of this project, consideration was given to include a component to
assist micro-enterprises. Due to the number of donors already active in this area, it was felt
that IDA's support would be better utilized by assisting the Government in coordinating
donors' activities and designing an overall strategy for such enterprises. Therefore, the
proposed project would help GOCV in this initiative by financing: (a) a seminar on best
practices for all donors; and (b) specialist services to design a strategy for the informal sector.
* Forum of enterprises. The two chambers of commerce will organize, at least twice a year, a
private enterprise forum to help improve the public/private partnership between the GOCV
and the private sector (para. 2.25). The project would finance seminars and workshops for
the organization of these forums. The recommendations of the forums will be incorporated by
the GOCV in the formulation of policies affecting the private sector.
2. The Financial Sector Component (US$4.35 million)
3.12 The proposed project would finance advisory services and equipment to: (a) modernize
the macro infrastructure for financial sector operators, including: (i) the design and development
of an effective payments system; (ii) the review and updating of the legal framework for the
financial sector; and (iii) assistance to the BCV to strengthen the supervisory function and to



22
redesign and implement an integrated economic and financial data base; (b) support the
institutional development of BCA, CECV, INPS, and ISCV, including training, audits, and
management information systems; and (c) help the government prepare and implement a plan to
privatize the two commercial banks no later than December 1998.  During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the government will submit for IDA's approval no later than March
1997, the plan for the privatization of the two banks. A covenant to this effect was agreed upon
during negotiations. The overall rationale for assistance in this sector is that its inefficiency is a
major obstacle to private sector development. Moreover, it is based on a sound overall plan for
the liberalization and privatization of all, except for the regulatory, supervisory, and classic
central-bank functions of the sector. Support to the two publicly-owned commercial banks is
justified in view of the fact that they comprise the entire commercial banking sector, and their
inefficiencies constitute a major constraint to private sector development at the same time that
they cause major difficulties to the conduct of sound monetary policy. In addition, the program to
be financed is considered essential to help the Government achieve its objective of privatizing
both commercial banks within three years, a considerable challenge particularly in the case of
BCA because of the absolute inadequacy of its financial accounts. To achieve economies of scale,
the training of staff and managers of all the financial institutions has been consolidated and will be
given in such a way to avoid duplication and at the same time ensure maximum participation. The
details of the training program are presented in the Project Implementation Manual.
a. Assistance to Banco de Cabo Verde (US$1.46 million)
3.13    The project would finance:
 Advisory services and equipment to the BCV to design and implement an effective and
secure international and domestic payments system. The project would address current
deficiencies (para. 2.38) by financing: (a) an in-depth study of user needs and corresponding
required infrastructure; (b) computerization of the payments system clearing house;
(c) technical services to draft enactments on negotiable instruments and electronic funds
transfers; and (d) capacity building of the central bank through workshops and training.
Training for BCV is complementary to the professional training program of the Basic
Education and Training Project and would follow the same least-cost in-country training
approach.
* Advisory services, equipment and training to design and implement an integrated data
base of economic information. The BCV stores financial and economic information on
separate computer diskettes. This system does not allow the BCV to get useful financial data
necessary to have a complete picture of the overall economy. The project would finance
consultant services and equipment to set up an integrated data base of economic and financial
information which is necessary to strengthen the monetary management capability of the BCV
and facilitate the sorting out of statistical data for publication on a regular basis. The IMF is
supportive of IDA's efforts to assist the GOCV on this initiative.
*  Advisory services to review the legal infrastructure.  The Public Sector Reform and
Capacity Building Project (para. 2.49) addresses some legal infrastructure issues, such as
bankruptcy and collateral issues and the commercial court system. However, it does not deal



23
with banking and insurance regulations which, in many respects, needs to be updated (see
Annex 5). This is the case, in particular, with the Banking Act, the BCV statutes and the
commercial banking regulations. It will also be necessary to focus on legal constraints for
recovering commercial claims, the design and implementation of a special law on loan
recoveries, and insurance investment guidelines as well as reinsurance regulations. These
activities are being funded through the PPF. The issuance by the Government of banking and
insurance regulations. acceptable to IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness.
*  Advisory services and equipment to develop an effective credit risk centralization
system. This will provide current data on borrower profiles and delinquencies which will
support banks in expanding their lending services to creditworthy borrowers. One of the
problems affecting the condition of commercial banks is the lack of a reliable credit
information system. Although the banking system is made up of only two major commercial
banks, it is difficult for one lender to find out other banks' credit experience with same
borrowers.
*  Technical support to the BCV in carrying out its supervisory function. This would
include in-house training of staff in auditing, accounting and commercial banking operations,
and acquisition of minimal equipment. Given the separation in 1993 of all commercial banking
functions carried out by BCV from its monetary authority role, there was a need to establish a
banking supervision department within the BCV to oversee the activities of the commercial
banking sector. For this purpose, a Banking Supervision Department was established with
technical collaboration from the Bank of Portugal and the IMF. Currently, the Banking
Supervision Department has three bank supervisors who are still inadequately trained. These
and the insurance supervisors will be trained by experienced short term expatriate consultants
in such a way that they can effectively perform the supervision of both banks and insurance
companies.
*  Technical support to the BCV in the areas of monetary policy and development of new
financial instruments. The project would finance short-term consultancy services in these
two areas which the Government has singled out as priorities. One special issue to be covered
by the consultancy services is the treatment of emigrant deposits in a way that preserves this
important source of funds without negatively affecting the stability and soundness of
monetary policy. BCV still has limited capacity in formulating sound monetary policy, and the
paucity of available financial instruments is a limiting factor in financing private enterprise
development. The terms of reference for this assistance will be developed in close
coordination with the IMF.
b. Institutional Strengthening of Banco Comercial do Atlantico (US$1.65 million)
3.14 Due to the importance of the problems facing BCA, there is a need to implement a far-
reaching institutional strengthening plan. The Government's plan includes the following sequence
of actions: (a) strengthening the general management team, through a management contract with
professional bankers or consulting firm, to assist the current President and providing tailored
technical support in all areas of commercial lending and banking operations to improve the limited



24
levels of experience of the current staff, including assistance in delinquent credits; (b) appointing a
new Board of Directors following criteria agreed with IDA is a condition of disbursement: during
negotiations. agreement was reached on the criteria to ensure that the new Board will comprise
five persons (of whom at least three are external to BCA) of high professional competence and
independence): (c) drafting and implementing a comprehensive restructuring plan dealing with
institutional development issues and financial strengthening, including recapitalization,
downsizing, and the implementation of a new MIS to prepare for its privatization within two to
three years; and (d) organizing intensive staff training (in general banking and computer skills).
The selection of a management contractor according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA is a
condition of disbursement.
3.15 The project would finance: (a) the recruitment of a competent management team to work
with BCA's President; (b) a full diagnostic audit emphasizing both financial and institutional
aspects (already completed and financed under the PPF) on the basis of which the consultants will
help management prepare a viable business plan and design the measures needed to strengthen
management policies and procedures; (c) intensive staff training, provided by short term
consultants, in banking operations, commercial lending, credit and risk analysis, foreign-exchange
management, accounting, auditing and internal control, marketing, loan processing and
monitoring, loan recovery techniques and liquidity management, as well as programs in general
and financial management for senior staff; (d) finalization of an assessment of the MIS needed to
implement the institutional strengthening program, and the corresponding needed equipment.
Final audit reports of the BCA were submitted prior to negotiations. In view of BCA's poor
record, the Bank has sought commitment from the Government that, pending privatization, it
would isolate BCA from political pressures and halt new loans to bad creditors (public and
private). The Government has stated its agreement in the Letter of Private Sector Development
Policy.
c. Support to Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (US$0.63 million)
3.16 The project would finance:
*  External audit and privatization plan. Following discussions between the Bank and the
Government during the appraisal mission, the Government is committed to put up for sale all
of the shares of CECV during 1996 (Annex 1). A PPF has already financed the audit which
has revealed weaknesses in management policies and procedures concerning, most notably,
internal controls, lending practices, strategic and tactical planning, asset Uability management,
foreign exchange risk management, and management information systems. Some of these
weaknesses are being addressed by the bank itself The project would finance consultant
services to assist in designing a privatization plan.
*  Technical support, management and staff training. To promote competition, in a country
where the banking system is limited to only two institutions, it is important that both be
financially sound and well managed. CECV's rapid growth and apparent success to date is
due to a combination of dynamic management and lack of aggressive competition from the
BCA. However, to promote the sustainability of this performance, the project would finance



25
technical support for institutional strengthening in the areas of weaknesses identified above
and management and staff training in accounting, project lending, general banking operations
and computer systems (within a single consolidated training program for all the financial
institutions covered by the project).
* Management Information System (MIS) and computer equipment. The activities of
Caixa Economica are currently concentrated in Praia and in Mindelo, but it plans to open, as
and when economically justifiable, branches and offices on other islands. Its loan portfolio
doubled from 1993 to 1995. Its MIS has not, however, kept pace with this rapid growth. To
address this need, the project would provide technical assistance for: (a) finalizing the
assessment of the upgrades required to accommodate the new management policies and
procedures and the expansion of activities; (b) upgrading the capacity of the current MIS
system; and (c) acquiring equipment for two new branch locations expected to start operating
before privatization.
d. Support to the Instituto de Seguros de Cabo Verde (US$0.20 million)
3.17 The project would strengthen ISCV by financing: (a) staff training in supervision of
insurance companies, actuarial accounting and audit procedures; (b) consultancy services to
design a new institutional structure, including the possibility of incorporating ISCV into the BCV
Supervision Department; (c) consulting services to assess existing regulations and proposed
changes, particularly in the areas of technical and mathematical reserve requirements, investment
policy, reinsurance guidelines, and adjustment of mandatory prerium rates to accurately reflect
underlying risk; (d) modest assistance to acquire computer equipment; and (e) revision of the
insurance sector regulatory framework to bring it into line with the state of development of the
industry.
e. Support to the Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (US$0.41 Million)
3.18  The project would help the Government improve INPS's efficiency by financing:
(a) technical services to implement ILO's recommendations (para. 2.38); (b) staff training,
primarily in accounting and in MIS use and management; and (c) the purchase of both hardware
and specially-designed software packages.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.19 Estimated Costs. The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$12.7
million equivalent, including US$8.8 million (or 69%) in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies
are estimated at US$0.7 million (6% of base costs). Price contingencies, estimated at US$0.9
million (7% of base costs), assume an average annual domestic inflation rate of 4%, and a annual
average foreign inflation rate of 2%. Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 7 and are
sumnumized in Table 3:



26
Table 3: Eaiinated Project Cosb (Net of Taxes and Duties)
Local   Foreign    Total    IDA %
-(in USS Million)-
A. Private Sector                                         2.89      3.01      5.90       81
1. Institutional Support to PROMEX                    2.55      2.81      5.37
a. Manufacturing Activities                          0.21      0.24      0.45       92
b. Tourism Activities                                0.59      0.72      1.32       96
c. Developing an Export-Processing Zone              1.37      1.39      2.76       67
d. Marine and Corporate Registries                   0.05      0.19      0.24      100
e. Video-conferencing Activities                        -      0.15      0.15      100
f. Private Sector Coordination Services              0.33      0.12      0.45       79
2. Technical Support Services to Domestic Enterprises  0.34      0.19      0.53      100
B. Financial Sector                                       0.30      4.05      4.35      100
1. Assistance to Banco de Cabo Verde                  0.09       1.37     1.46      100
2. Support to the Banco Comercial doAtlantico          0.09      1.56      1.65      100
3. Support to Caixa Economica                          0.08     0.55      0.63       100
4. Support to the Instituto de Seguros de Cabo Verde   0.02      0.18     0.20       100
5. Support to the Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social  0.02  0.39    0.41       100
C. Project Preparation (PPF Refinancing)                  0.10      0.75      0.85      100
Total BASE COSTS                                          3.29      7.81     11.10       90
Physical Contingencies                                 0.25      0.49     0.74
Price Contingencies                                    0.42      0.45     0.87
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       3.96      8.75     12.71
3.20 Financing Plan. The proposed IDA credit of US$11.4 million equivalent would finance
approximately 90% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. This amount would cover all of
the foreign exchange costs (US$8.8 million) in addition to US$2.6 million representing a portion
of the local costs. The remainder of the local costs (US$1.3 million) would be financed by the
Government. A PPF in the amount of USS150,000 was approved in September 1992, and an
increase to US$850,000 was subsequently approved in February 1995.
Table 4: Financing Plan by Item (in US$ million, net of duties and taxes)
Cateory of Expenditures        IDA             %         Government   %.   Total
1. CivilWorks                      2.33            70            1.10       30     343
2. Goods                           3.05      l00foreignexp.                        3.05
95 of local exp.
3. Consultants' Services           2.43            100                             2.43
4. Training                         1.41           100                              1.41
5 PromotionalActivities            0.97            90            0.10       10     1.07
6. Operating Costs                 0.37                          0.10              0.47
a. Salaries of contractual staff  0.27           90                               0.27
b. Operation &Maintenance         0.10            50           0.10       50      0.20
7. PPF Refinancing                 0.85            100       -_._-                 085
Total                 1141             90           1.30       10    12.71



27
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.1   The MEC would be accountable for project execution, and implementation of the sub-
components would be carried out by the respective project beneficiaries: BCV, BCA, CECV,
ISCV, INPS, chambers of commerce and PROMEX. The PSCU's role would be to: (a) monitor
the implementation of the various project sub-components by the key stakeholders; (b) coordinate
training activities financed under the project; (c) prepare periodic reports on the status of
implementation; (d) maintain the project's accounts; and (e) liaise with IDA and the MEC. For
the organization of training activities, the PSCU would call upon PROMEX's existing capability
and, as needed, on outside consultants on a short term basis. The PSCU would have three locally
recruited staff, including a project coordinator (PC) acceptable to IDA, who would be from the
private sector or from the community of Cape Verdeans currently working abroad. Due to the
heavy involvement of most government officials in the ongoing public sector reforms, it is not
desirable to have a civil servant coordinating the project activities. In addition, because of internal
budgetary constraints, the GOCV is unable to offer a compensation package attractive to a
qualified individual. Therefore, to carry out the needed actions, the PSCU staff will be financed
under the project. Their salaries were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations in order to
establish the appropriate pay scale. Due to the "one-time shot" nature of the project, there would
be no need for the PSCU to continue beyond the project implementation period.  The
establishment of the PSCU. headed by the PC. acceptable to IAD is a condition of credit
effectiveness. This implementation arrangement is recommended because of the need to have a
competent person with relevant project management experience and private sector background to
ensure a smooth coordination and follow-up on project activities.  Further details on the
implementation arrangements are presented in the Project Implementation Manual.
B. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.2   Project implementation would be carried out on the basis of annual work programs for
each component, which would provide flexibility in planning and monitoring. The programs
would be prepared by the heads of the beneficiary institutions in close cooperation with the PC.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the PC would prepare the annual work
programs including a budget and procurement plan to be submitted to the Minister of Economic
Coordination for clearance and to IDA for review and non-objection. along with an evaluation of
the previous year's work program and budget no later than January 31 of each year. The annual
work program would include: (a) monitoring the performance indicators detailed in Annex 8 a
statement of monitorable objectives and a program of activities to be undertaken to reach these
objectives; (b) dotailed budgets and financing plans, including proposed procurement contracts to
be financed by the Credit; and (c) training plans. During negotiations. agreement was reached
with the Government on the detailed work program for the first year of the project. A detailed
implementation schedule is provided in Annex 9.
4.3   The PC would prepare concise quarterly reports to IDA on the implementation of each
project component.  These reports would compare actual and forecast progress.  During



28
negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government on the proiect monitoring and
performance indicators on the format to be used and on submission to IDA of quarterly reports no
later than 30 days after the end of each of the first three calendar quarters, and an annual report
which would include the period ending December 31, to be furnished within two months of year-
end. These reports would include, inter alia, the agreed monitoring and performance indicators.
Reporting requirements would begin with the first calendar quarter following credit effectiveness.
4.4   To review progress in project implementation, and if necessary re-orient implementation,
agreement was reached during negotiations that IDA and the Government would undertake joint
yearly reviews and that a mid-term review would be scheduled approximately two years after
project effectiveness. During negotiations, agreement was also reached that the Government
would send to IDA for comments, no later than one month prior to each review, a draft progress
report which would constitute the basis for the reviews. The Government would also prepare and
send to IDA a project implementation completion report within six months after the closing date.
An implementation schedule and a supervision plan are in Annex 10. A project launching
workshop is scheduled to take place within two months after Board approval of the credit.
C. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
4.5   Procurement.  Procurement arrangements are presented in Table 5. Cape Verde's
National procurement laws and regulations were reviewed and determined acceptable. Contracts
for civil works program financed by IDA (totaling US$3.4 million, net of taxes and duties)
include construction of the road in the tourist zone on Sal Island, the factory shells in the EPZ and
complementary works on the Luxembourg-financed shells. The contracts for the construction of
the road, the factory shells and complementary works (totaling US$3.1 million), each estimated to
cost US$200,000 or more, would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995), and using Standard Bidding Documents developed by the Bank, while the
contract for construction of the office (totaling US$0.3 million), each estimated to cost less than
US$200,000, would be awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.6   Contracts for goods financed by IDA include one vehicle, computer equipment and
software, other office equipment and supplies, and furniture (totaling US$3.1 million, net of taxes
and duties). Goods would be grouped into packages of at least US$200,000 each and procured
through ICB for an estimated total cost of US$2.6 million equivalent, in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995), and
using standard bidding documents developed by the Bank. Goods procured under contracts
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent each would be suitable for procurement
through NCB, according to procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the aggregate amount does
not exceed US$0.4 million. Goods estimated to cost less than US$35,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$50,000, may be procured through national shopping procedures, based on price
quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers. Vehicle and equipment valued at less
than US$35,000, up to an aggregate of US$50,000, may be procured through UNDP's Inter-



29
Agency Procurement Services Office (LAPSO). Promotional activities will be procured through
procedures applicable either for goods or services depending on the nature and type of activities.
Table : Procuremnt Arrangements
(hi USS Mmoon quveet, hnuin contlngenlsa, ned of  ne wid duAl)
ProcurenAt Mehod
hdenutiond    National
-op Co
Bidding          W        Other       Total
A. CMv Works
Conetruction                                       3.1         0.3         0.0         3.4
(2.1)      (0.2)                   (2.3)
B Goods
Equlp., Vehic, & Maarwl                            2B          0.4        0.02         3.1
(2.6)      (0.4)       (0.02)      (3.1)
C. Specalst Servce/Trallng
1. Inerneta apefte                                               -         2.1         2.1
(21)       (2-1)
2. Nonel apw-ts                                                            0.4         0.4
(0.4)     (0.4)
3. Traing abroad                                                            0.4        0.4
(0.4)     (0.4)
4. Local btknn                                                             0.9         0.9
(0.9)     (0.9)
D. Promotioa Activies                                              -          1.1        1.1
(1 0)     (1.0)
E. RecArent Cods
1. Peronnel
Saaie of coractua staff                            -           -         0.2         0.2
(0.2)     (0.2)
Stbff brvel                                                              0.07       0.07
(0.07)    (0.07)
2. O&M VeL & Eq., Conuinabl                                      -          0.2        0.2
(0.1)     (0.1)
F. PPF RefinanIn                                                 0.1         0.8         0.8
(0.1)      (0.8)      (0.8)
TOW                                                  5.7          0.8         6.2       12.7
(4.7)      (0-7)        (6.0)     (11.4)
Nobe: Flgurn hI pardhia we the respectv wmxunbt finnd by IDA.
4.7     Specialist services financed by the IDA credit (US$4.0 million) would be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor the Use of Consaldmts (August 1981). Services to be
contracted include mainly short-term specialists for technical assistance, training auditing, design
and implementation of MIS and data base, and studies. The PC would be selected on the basis of
open competition. Services for management assistance to BCA would be contracted for the first
two years of project execution on the basis of a short-list of firms. Draft terms of reference for all
major advisory services and studies were confirmed during negotiations.
4.8    During negotiations agreement was reached on the use of Standard Bidding Documents.
letters of invitation for the selection of consultants. and standard consultant contracts. Also,
during negotiations. the Government reviewed and ageed with IDA on a model consultancy



30
contract including a sample letter of invitation, for the recruitment of consultants and advisors
under the prject.
4.9   Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold of
US$200,000 equivalent each would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. In the case of
consultants, prior review by IDA would be required for all consultancy contracts for individuals
above a threshold of US$50,000 equivalent, and for firms, above a threshold of US$100,000
equivalent. Below these thresholds, the Bank would review the terms of reference for all
contracts, all cases where single source-hiring is proposed, any assignments that it determines to
be of a critical nature, and any amendments to contracts that would raise their value over these
thresholds.
4.10 Disbursements. The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period, and the
IDA credit disbursed over 5 years, according to the categories shown in Table 6 below. The
estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 11. AU disbursements of the IDA credit will be
based on prior documentation, except for: (a) consultant contracts of less than US$50,000 with
individuals and with firms of less than US$100,000; (b) contracts for works and goods of less
than US$200,000; (c) contracts for training; and (d) operating costs. Disbursements for these
items will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Operating costs include salaries of
contractual personnel of the PSCU and of PROMEX staff involved in the management of the
EPZ, staff travel, office expenses, rent, and electricity of the PSCU, and operation and
maintenance of equipment and vehicle. The PC will have responsibility for the preparation of
withdrawal applications for all components. The documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will
be retained by the PSCU and the MEC for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and
for regular semi-annual audits.
4.11  To expedite disbursements, agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Government will open a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocation will be US$500,000 representing IDA's anticipated share of eligible
expenditures for four months. IDA will make an initial deposit of US$250,000 upon credit
effectiveness and once US$5,000,000 equivalent are disbursed, the balance of the authorized
allocation will be advanced to the Special Account. Replenishment of the Special Account will be
made on the basis of monthly applications supported by full documentation or SOEs, as required.
Initially, all expenditures less than US$50,000 equivalent will be financed directly from the special
account and for any expenditure above US$50,000 equivalent, IDA will accept direct payments.
Once the filll allocation is advanced, this threshold will rise to US$100,000. The Borrower will
open a Project Account and deposit into it for counterpart funds: (a) an amount equivalent to
US$100,000 in ECV; and (b) the remaining amount of its counterpart contributions (i.e.,
quarterly, twice a year, etc.), according to a payment schedule agreed upon between the
Borrower and IDA. The establishment of this Project Account is a condition of credit
effectiveness,



31
Table 6: Allocation of IDA Credit (in USS million, net of taxes and duties)
..................................................................................................................................... ......................7-------............................................................_..........................
f                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   % df Total Expenditres
Category                              Amot                      to be Financed
1. Civil Works...... ..   
a. Constuction of factory Shells                                 1.7                        70
b. Complanentay works on Luxembourg-finanoed                    0.5     }                   70
_fiLtoy    sheUs   _ _ . .......... . .............. . ...................... ..... .  ._._._._..
2. Goods                                                          2.9     j      100 of foreign expenditures
95 of local expaditures
3. Consultants' Services                                          2.1     1                  100
1.2                       100
..  _  _.   ......  ............... ................_.. _ __._ .......... ....................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. .  . ...... ............ .. .........................._._._........._.
S  Promotional Activities                                         0.8     I                   90
6. Oprating Costs                                                  I.3
a. Salaries of contracual staff                                0.2                        90
b. Operation & Maintenance                                     0.1                         50
7. PPF Refnancing                     .                           0.8                        100
8s  Unfocated-   1.
................      ............... .          .          .         ...........
g ~~~~~~~~Tota                                              11_. I4 |90
Table 7: Disbursement of IDA Credit (in USS million)
EDA Fisl Year               1997      19 Im 9         19       l    2000        2001 I
Annual                      ...... 1~.....8 ... 3.6   T    3.3            2.1 .......
~~~~~............................................................  .............t................... ..................    ........... i6   ..... .............*-------
== c u m u l.a.i. ..... .e..................   . 8S...j _87..........8    .08  ...  ....
D. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.12   The PSCU within PROMEX will establish and maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA,
separate accounts and records to be used exclusively for the project. The accounts will be
maintained in accordance with sound and internationally accepted accounting principles and
practices. The PC will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial
performance and situation of the project. Independent auditors acceptable to the Association will
audit the project accounts in accordance with internationally acceptable auditing principles and in
such details as IDA may request. Establishment of a financial management/accounting system for
the project. and the selection of auditors under a multi-year contract are conditions of credit
effectivene. The audits would be undertaken annually and the audit report submitted to IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition, the Special Account would be
audited annually, and the SOEs semi-annually, and audit reports would be submitted six months
after the end of each audit period. During negotiations. agreement was reached that the
Government will submit to IDA annual audit reports within six months of the end of each fiscal
year and, for SOEs. submnit semi-annual reports within six months after the end of each audit
period,



32
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.13  Cape Verde's environment is frale, given: (a) exposure of its predominantly bare soil
surface to wind and water erosion; and (b) fast growth of urban areas. Inadequate fiesh water
supply, lack of sanitation and satisfactory systems for collection and disposal of hazardous and
solid waste pose immediate health hazards for the fast-growing population in the urban areas.
Environmental problems are weli identified and recognized by the Government which has adopted
an active approach in carrying out concrete actions to address environmental issues (e.g.,
allocating increased financial resources to improve urban living conditions, massive reforestation
efforts, etc.). It has also established an inter-agency National Council of the Environment which
has embarked on the design of a strategy, a legislative package and an institutional framework to
deal with environmental issues on a more comprehensive basis. The Bank has assisted this
process through the preparation of a Country Environmental Strategy Paper. An integral part of
the Government's active stance on the environment is the preparation of a National
Environmental Action Plan which has already begun. The project does not present the prospect
of any significant detimental environmental impact. However, to avoid any unnecessary risk, the
Government has conducted an environmental assessment with assistance from an independent
consultant to determine the project's impact (particularly the export-processing zone and the
tourism activities) on the environment. The assessment has confirmed that the project will not
have a significant adverse impact on the environment.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEFTS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.1   The proposed project would assist the Government in its efforts to promote private sector
development and modernize the financial system. By supporting PROMEX and the EPZ, the
project would help develop dynamic export and tourism sectors which are essential elements of
the Government's economic development strategy. The main benefits are expected to arise from
job creation in an economy where unemployment is the main problem. Enterprises attracted to
the EPZ would create employment and contribute to poverty alleviation. Similarly, hotel
investments by foreigners would facilitate the growth of tourism, also creating employment and
contributing to foreign exchange earnings. An efficient financial sector would contribute to the
implementation of an effective monetary and credit policy and to the stability and growth of the
Cape Verdean economy.  The strengthening of the financial institutions would promote
competition and increase their efficiency which in turn would improve access to capital, enhance
domestic resource mobilization, and significantly lower the transaction costs of enterprises. A
well-functioning financial sector would facilitate the development of the private sector and the
privatization of public enterprises. The investment in training and expert advice would improve
local capacity in the financial and private sectors. The Social Security Fund, the Instituto
Nacional de Preudencia Social, represents an invaluable reservoir of long-term financial
resources. Accordingly, restoration of its financial health should facilitate the channeling of these
resources to support economic growth..



33
B. EMLOYmNT AND POVERTY ALLEVATION
5.2   Twenty-three percent of the working-age population of Cape Verde is officially classified
as "unemployed". The project would contribute to the alleviation of this problem by directly
creating about 2,700 jobs in the Mindelo's EPZ over a four-year period. It is estimated that a
similar number of jobs would be created indirectly.  The total employment impact in the
manufacturing sector would therefore be about 5,500 new jobs. Furthermore, investments in the
tourism sector and the development of tourism activities should result in the creation of about 750
directly-generated and some 400 indirectly-generated new jobs. Therefore, the total employment
impact of the project would amount to some 6,600 new jobs (equivalent to 6% of the country's
economically active population). Through the creation of employment both in the manufacturing
and in the tourism sectors, the project would make a significant contribution to the alleviation of
poverty.
C. COST RECOVERY
5.3   Cost recovery for the construction of the factory shelHs in Mindelo's EPZ would be
achieved through the rents charged to enterprises using these facilities. Cost recovery of the
technical support provided to private enterprises through the chambers of commerce would come
from the fees charged to these enterprises for participating in the training sessions provided to
them. For the in-factory training of workers, the Training Fund will finance only part of the cost
of training to guarantee a cost-recovery procedure whereby the employer takes on an increasing
large share of the training costs.
D. INPACT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
5.4   The project team has conducted an analysis of the net impact of the project on public
finances. Although the margins of error of such forecasts are necessarily quite wide, the net
impact appears very solidly positive, with the possible exception of a small negative impact in the
initial year when it might (pessimistically) reach US$167,000 after debt service. Incremental
budgetary costs are in fact very limited and consist essentially of: (a) small provisions for possible
complementary capital expenditures in the tounsm sector; (b) small provisions for possible
contributions to EPZ management costs in the first two years; and (c) the costs of collecting
incremental tax revenues. The main benefits are incremental tax revenues as detailed in Annex 6
plus direct and indirect tax revenues on local salaries (not taken into account in the economic
analysis). The positive impact should exceed US$1.0 million per year from the seventh year.
Although it is not conventional to calculate net present values for fiscal impact, the flow of costs
and benefits raises conceptually the same issues as in a financial analysis. In this case, it is
constructive to note that when discounted at 12%, the NPV of the net fiscal impact (after paying
IDA debt service) is USS4.82 million.
E. ECONOMIC ANALYSis
5.5   Economic analyses have been carried out for activities financed under the project for:
(a) the development of export-oriented manufacturing; (b) the development of the tourism sector,



34
(c) the provision of technical support to private enterprises; and (d) the financial sector. Since the
aim of the program financed by the project is to facilitate employment creation in the strategic
sub-component areas, its costs have been allocated to the other activities. Because the cost of the
component on technical support to enterprises is very small, and its benefits are difficult to
quantify, its cost has been allocated to the first two components. A detailed economic cost-
benefit analysis of the project is in Annex 6.
5.6   The economic analysis of activities aimed at encouraging foreign investment presents
some special problems. The approach used here is an innovative one which looks only at the
costs and benefits accruing to "Cape-Verde Incorporated", i.e., the people and Government of
Cape-Verde, on the grounds that the ownership of costs and benefits is particularly important
when foreign investment is involved, and that only costs and benefits that really accrue to the
target community are of relevance. The main costs taken into consideration in this methodology
are those directly borne by the project and the opportunity cost of labor employed in the new
enterprises. The main benefits are the wages received by that labor, and the fiscal revenues
accruing to Government. Per-capita GDP in Cape Verde is estimated at U$800, and the fall-back
occupation of most of the poor is very low-income subsistence agriculture. It is therefore
arguable that the true opportunity cost of labor is below U$800. However, to err on the side of
caution, it has been taken as US$1,000. The current wage of unskilled formal sector labor is
US$1,500, and average wages in new foreign-owned enterprises have been taken as US$1,600,
since they will also employ a proportion of skilled labor. Conventionally, indirect income-
generation effects are ignored in economic analyses, but in this type of project they play such an
important role that a very conservative estimate has been included, at a lower wage of US$1,280.
5.7   For the sub-component dealing with the development of export-oriented manufacturing
and information technology-based service industries, in addition to direct project costs, 67% of
the financial sector component costs, and 50%/a of the project management costs, the evaluation
also took into account US$1.82 million of EPZ start-up costs and factory-shell construction
undertaken on grant terms by the European Union and Luxembourg. The benefits have been
calculated on the basis of 2,700 new jobs created in the EPZ as a result of the project (a more
conservative estimate than the "base scenario" of 3,700 jobs predicted by Plant Location
International), each of which produces one low-paid indirect job outside the zone. Rents of the
factory shells (US$20 per square meter per year for pre-constructed factory-shells) become
payable on occupation, and direct taxes become payable only after the end of a ten-year tax
holiday (income taxes paid by local workers are transfers within Cape-Verde Inc. and are not
taken into account). The opportunity cost of capital has been taken at 12%. On the basis of these
assumptions, the component dealing with export oriented manufacturing has a positive NPV of
US$7.56 million, and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 31% over a project life of 15 years.
This positive impact derives predominantly from the benefits accruing from the directly-generated
employment.
5.8   Sensitivity analyses have been carried out to identify the effects of variances from the
base-case on the economic return of the private sector component. The biggest risk is a shortfall
in job-creation, and the switching value for this variable at which the NPV becomes zero is 1,430
jobs.



35
5.9   For the sub-component dealing with tourism development, the cost-benefit analysis is
based on an estimate of 750 new rooms and 30,000 extra tourists by 1999 (compared with
Government estimates of 4,300 and 43,000 respectively) with average stay rising from 6 to 8 days
per tourist. Expenditures per tourist-day are estimated at US$80 per person, and cost of
construction is US$50,000 per room, of which 300/o is for local labor. Direct job creation is of
one per room (conventional staffing rates often reach twice this level) with indirect job creation
being 50/ of direct. Wages and opportunity costs are the sarne as in the manufauing sector.
On the basis of these assumptions, the tourism development component of the project has a
positive NPV of US$8.31 million at 12% discount rate, and has an ERR of 72%.
5. 10  Sensitivity analyses were also carried out for the tourism sub-component. Again, the main
risks are shortfalls in hotel construction and number of tourists. Assuming that these two
variables remain in the same ratio, the switching point at which NPV becomes zero is 23% of the
base level, i.e., 175 new rooms, and 7000 additional tourists.
5.11  For the project as a whole, including the components for which benefits were not
quantified, these figures become US$14.9 million and 37%, respectively.
F. RisKs
5.12 The very high rates of return on these components are indicative of the very high returns
resulting to the Cape-Verdean community from even a relatively small number of new modern-
sector jobs. They also reflect the critical importance of making the "package" of reforms,
incentives and promotion activities attractive enough to bring in the foreign investment that
constitutes the fundamental element of this project. The high returns are related to the high
inherent risks of spending money to attract foreign investment. If it succeeds, the returns are
large enough to generously reimburse the outlay. Two alternative ways of looking at these
favorable results are that, even if the project had only a 40/. probability of success, it would still
be a good actuarial risk for the Government to take; altematively, it is clear that if, during project
inplementation, it appeared that the results were falling short of expectations, the potential
benefits from the project are large enough that the Government could improve the incentive
package and still come out with a very favorable return on its efforts.
5.13  Specific risks and risk-reduction strategies can be identified in a number of areas. There is
a risk that the Government that will take office after the eections in December 1995 might not
pursue the implementation of adequate macro-economic policies and liberalization reforms in the
areas of trade, pricing and finance. At present, this possibility looks very unlikely, as the outgoing
political formation has been returned to power. There is, however, strong pressure on the
incoming Government to maintain these reforms, as any weakening of the reform momentum
would jeopardize the on-going dialogue with the MF and the Bank. Further risks are related to
the capacity of the Government to implement this program. To help mitigate this potential
problem, the project includes a significant amount of expert advisory services focusing on sidlI
transfers.



36
5.14 The risk that, because of fierce competition between countries in the area, Cape Verde will
not succeed in attracting a sufficient number of foreign investors to have a meaningfW impact on
the development of its exports, has already been discussed (para. 3.7). To prevent this from
happening, the Government is offering significant incentives to potential investors by financing the
construction of several factory shells which they will be able to rent and by financing the training
of workers. Furthermore, no new factory shell will be built until there is a firm take-up agreement
with an investor. One significant advantage that Cape Verde offers in this respect is the political
stability which investors consider as a major factor in the location of their foreign investments.
Regarding tourism development, there is an analogous risk of a shortfall in the number of tourists.
To minimize this, the Government's strategy is to involve hotel chains linked to tour operators,
who thus have a vested interest in bringing tourists to Cape Verde.
5.15  There are also institutional risks regarding the BCA. The Government might be reluctant
to take the strong measures that are essential to reform this institution: downsizing the balance
sheet of the BCA, reducing its staff very significantly, giving the new management a great deal of
latitude and initiative to implement the reform measures, closing down uneconomic branches,
collecting bad loans. To prevent this risk from materializing, the Government has been asked to
express its commitment to reforming the BCA in the Letter of Private Sector Development
Policy. The Letter also includes future annual audit requirements. Furthermore, at the mid-term
review, all the above-mentioned aspects will be reviewed to ensure that they are being met.
VL AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   Following are the conditions that the Government has met prior to the negotiations of the
project:
(a)  Submission to IDA by the GOCV of a Letter of Private Sector Development Policy.
The Letter of Private Sector Development Policy confirms the Government's
intention to continue with the process of liberalization of the economy and to take all
appropriate legislative actions that will facilitate the operations of the private sector.
Copy of the signed Letter is attached as Annex 1.
(b)  Submission to IDA by the GOCV of a draft budget indicating that 50%/o of the
counterpart funds have been included in the budget for 1996;
(c)  Receipt of the final institutional and financial audits of BCA and CECV;
(d) Merger of INAT1JR into PROMEX;
(e)  Creation by the GOCV of the two chambers of commerce; and
(f)  Completion of the project environmental assessment.
6.2   In addition, during negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:



37
(a) The cost-sharing formula for the financing of consulting services for private
enterprises (para 3.11) establishes the contribution of the beneficiary as follows:
25% for consultant contracts under US$2,500, 35% for contracts between
US$2,501 and US$10,000, and 70% for contracts over US$10,000; Any enterprise
would be eligible for such an assistance only once during the project implementation
period, and the maximum amount allowed for each eligible beneficiary would be
US$15,000;
(b)  The Government will submit to IDA for approval no later than March 1997, the plan
for the privatization of the two banks (para. 3.12);
(c)  The new Board will comprise five persons (of whom at least three are external to
BCA) of high professional competence and independence (para. 3.14);
(d)  A detailed work program  for each project component for the first year of
implementation and each subsequent year (para. 4.2);
(e)  Project monitoring and performance indicators and format and submission of
quarterly reports (para. 4.3);
(f)  Annual joint review by IDA and the Government, to begin six months after
effectiveness, and annually thereafter, of the progress in project implementation
(para. 4.4);
(g)  Scheduling of a mid-term review to take place approximately two years (between 24
and 34 months) after credit effectiveness (para. 4.4);
(h)  Submission to IDA for comments, no later than one month prior to each yearly
review, of a draft progress report which will be the basis for said review (para. 4.4);
(i)  Preparation and submission to IDA by the Government of a project implementation
report within six months after the closing date (para. 4.4);
(j) Draft terms of reference for all major advisory services and studies (para. 4.7);
(k)  Utilization of Sample Bidding Documents, Letters of Invitation for the selection of
consultants and Sample Consultants' Contracts, to be modified as appropriate, with
regard to taxes, liabilities and payment terms (para. 4.8);
(I) Procedures for the establishment and operation of the Special Account in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA and other disbursement procedures (para. 4.11);
and



38
(m) Submission to IDA of annual audit reports within six months of the end of each
fiscal year and, for SOEs, submission of semi-annual reports within six months after
the end of each audit period (para. 4.12).
6.4      During negotiations, the Government signed the Letter of Private Sector Development
Policy (para. 2.23), therefore fulfilling the only condition of Board presentation of the
credit.
6.5   The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) A detailed training program for in-factory training of workers for the first year will
be finalized (para. 3.7);
(b)  Issuance of banking and insurance regulations acceptable to IDA (para. 3.13);
(c)  The PSCU shall be established, headed by the Project Coordinator who shall be
appointed (para. 4.1):
(d)  The establishment of a Project Account (para. 4.11);
(e)  the appointment of auditors acceptable to IDA on a multi-year contract basis (para.
4.12); and
(f)  Establishment of a financial management/accounting system for the project (para.
4.12).
6.6   The following are conditions of disbursement:
(a) The construction of IDA-financed factory shells wifl be undertaken only after the
Luxembourg-financed shells have been rented out (para. 3.7) as evidenced by a firm
rental contract which includes a three month non refundable deposit or a payment
guarantee from a private commercial bank for an equivalent amount.;
(b)  The Government has appointed the management contractor for BCA, acceptable to
IDA, who will be responsible for carrying out the institutional strengthening program
and preparing it for privatization (para. 3.14); and
(c)  the appointment of a new Board of Directors of the BCA (consisting of five
persons, of whom at least three are external to BCA) following criteria agreed with
IDA (para. 3.14).
6.7   Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of US$11.4 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



39                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
LETTER OF PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.     Introduction
Cape Verde achieved a satisfactory rate of economic growth in the 1980s (about 6% per year), but
toward the end of the decade clear signs of economic problems appeared, particulary in the form of a substantial
decline in the GDP growth rate (from 7% in 1987 to about 2% in 1990), mainly due to a sizable reduction in
external assistanc for public investment. When Cape Verde achieved inependence in 1975, the Govemment
was assigned a key role in economic activites, with the pnvate sector playing only a marginal part. Many
activities, such as banking, insurance, certain aspects of imports and exports, nergy, public transportation in
urban areas, and air transportation were exclusively the domain of the public sector.
Govemment intervenbon was based on ecanonic protectionisi, and this was implllD ted thogh a
systen of import quotas and licenses. The outcome has been a lack of devekoret in the private sector, a
structural deficit in the trade balance (wih exports of goods and services covering imports by a rate of just over
20%), and inflation, which reached about 10% by 1990. Because of poor economic pfonrmance and the very
limited amount of job creabon in the public sector, unemployment steadily increased, reaching about 30% by
1990.
In addition to these intemal economic problens, the intrnational crisis produced external difficulties that
had a negatve impact on emigration and the flow of official development assistance. It was under these difficult
mcroeconomic circumsances that a new political systan was itroduced in Januazy 1991.
2.     The Government's Obiectives
The new Government adopted the following main objectives:
(i)    Reform of the financial sector, with a view to modenizing it and allowing instios to
specialize. The Government has also endeavored to itroduce compctitaon among the various financial
intermediaries.
(ii)    Development of new financial products, by establishing new nonbank institutions (e.g. regional
develpment companies, venture capital companies, investment compnMies, leasing comps, etc.), or banlcng
and insurance companies.
(iii)    Reform of the trade institutions (which had previously oprated by m ng imprt ceilings
and granting import lioenses), making them capable of gathirig processing and di fmati  infonnation on
both domestic and extemal trade to enterprises and consumers. This reform should also enable the ittutions to
play an active role in steering extenal trade toward more promusing markts.



40
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
(iv)    Privafizaton of most public enterprises, based on the principle that the Government should act
as an economic agent only when this is stategically necessaiy and the private sector is unable to respond in a
timely and efficient manner.
(v) Changes in the legal status and managment practices of those public enterprises dtat are not
privatized, so that thy can operate in the market on the same footimg as private enterprises (this involves
ammding their charters and undertkg the economic and financal rehabilitation of those that are in difficultes).
(vi)   Simplification of the tax system, maklng it more convenient for both the taxpayers and the
authorities and providing an effective means to counter fraud and tax evasion. This will also increase government
income, and simultaneously reduce the tax burden.
(vii)   Replacing the nmehanim  for direct inlervention in the ecowmy with indirect econanic
managment instruments. Previously, the Government determined monetay policy by setting interest rates and
credit limits, and price policy by setting prices for the main items in the housewife's food basket. It also imposed
incomes policies.
(viii) Introductioo of new macroeconomc management practices in which market forces are the basic
mechnism  for regulating the economy, with the Government using nacroeconmc tools and variables as a
means for achieving iternal and external equilibna as well as an appropriate distribution of incone. In fact, the
main objective will be to link economic stabilization prograns for correing cyclic changes to econonic growth
policies, so as to ensure sustainable economic development.
(ix)    The creation wihin government services of a new "cultre" that promotes and stimulates the
private sector, together with the establishment of institutions for promotng it.
3.     Macroeconomic and Sectoral Measures Adopted
A.    Reform of the Lgl Franework. From 1991, the following measures were adopted to adapt economic
legislation to the objectives listed above.
(i)    Removal of quotas and liberalization of trade.
(ii) Approval of a law on foreign investnents. This established incentives, but at the same time
redefined the "foreign" investor as anybody placing an investment in Cape Verde from an extenal source,
regardless of that person's natioality. As regards incentives, the investor receives considerable tax benefits, is
authorized to maintain accounts in convertible currencies, conduct all operaions from these accounts, and
transfer abroad both the capital originally invested and all profits derived therefriom. In addition, the decision-
making process has been greatly simplified, the cost of processing investment applications has been reduced, and
the principle of 'tacit approval" has been itroduced, according to which applications can be assumed to have
been autonmaically approved if the Government makes no response within a period of 30 days.
(iii)    Approval by the National Assembly of the law on export promoton, which gants tax and other
benefits to enterprises basically producing for the extenal market, regardless of the nature of the investnent in
question.



AR~~~~~~4
lt        ;t~~I. 
ELI Hii:~    i 
~~~hl ILII                      :I
It~ ~ ii             j          IEt



42
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
banking systei, an   utional development program is beig  implnid i BCA, covering orgnton,
computerization, ac4oun  and econonuc, finaal and capital-sucture rehabilitation. The Govlmmat has
also established the Caixa de Cidito Rural (CCR) to mea te needs of m prises n die agicu    crafls
and fishenes sectors by prvxidg loans at subsidixz  rates.
(ui)    Refbnn of the isuranc sector. These activitie have been opened up to &th private sector, amd,
in addition, the formr Instituto de Segurs de Prvidincia Social (INPS) has been urned into two new
intituions: the Compahia de Seguros Garantia,  RL (a publicly owned icorpoated body) and lhe Jnsltudo
Nacional de Preudencia Social. There is anodher pnvate insurnc ompany, MPAR. The Insliluto de Seguros
de Cabo Verde (ISCV) has also bek   established, to regulate and supervie insure activities.
(m)    Reform of the tax system. Th tax reform program has icluded approval and adoptim of the
General Tax Code and approval of the law defining the bases for the snje tax rate applied to personal and
corporate incomes.
(iv)    Development of the finncl maket In order to improve the operation of ihe financial marke
(especially tlhrugh the introduction of new financial products), legislative mensum have been adopted in the
following areas: condition applicable to cash deposits in banks; lnding by banks and bank-like instit   of
fiuds deposited with tmi; currency exchange opeAtions, and  ansactions involving gold, for which greater
fieedom of action has been granted to econmw agmts; definition of investment omani; establishment of
foreign exchange agencies; isSUing of Treaswy Bomds; and establishment of ventr capital cap   and
leasing comanies. Interest rates on deposits have bee parnally libbid, except m the ase of deposis held by
D.    Privatiation of Public Enteises. In order to reduce substantially its role in the conoomy and piuote
the private sector, the Govemment approved a program for prnvatzng and roapiing public atrprises. After
approving the privttion law in 1992, irnplnenwtation was begun. As a remsult, in 1995, 14 out of 44 public
enterprises were already privatized and 6 dissolved, while II are being reorpniuze  The iunaining 15 are in
process of being privatizd. The Goverment is commited to maintaining its policy of public enterprise
privatzation.
In addiion, the public enterprse are being inorporated, so that this new status can be used to change
the relationship between them and the Governent
4.     Government Econonic Policies for DeveloDina the Private Sector
Govemnt economic policy over the coning years will be based on de folowing principles:
(1)         idation of its economic refonns;
(2)    deveopnt of the nwket economy and the private sector.
To fiunlw its cunt refbr , te Govenmen will pay pariicular ato to the folowig points:



43
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
(i)    Cotnuato of tax refom. Tbe first part of the mfonn applied to income tax. In May 1995
the National Assenbly approved the law mstuting a single inome tax rate; this law is already m effet In
coopeatim with the World Bank and the IMF, the Govermnent will undrtake the addibtnal measures neoessoy
for refoming the tax system, so that the tax rates applied to enterpiiss and individuals can be reduced by stages
up to the year 2000.
The second part of the refori will concem indirect taxes. The Govermet is comnmtted to compling
this second component of tax refonn by the end of the year 2000, by itroducing a value added tax. Refming
fte system will simplify the processes by which taxpayers fulfill thei oblgtons and the autories calate and
collec taxes, will reduce tax fiaud and evasion, and will provide for imroved &stribution of the tax burden.
(ii)    Reform of the finial system. Finanial egislat  (including banking and  nn-banking
legislatio) will be revised, pllarly with regard to the status of BCV, to cilitate the partpat  or creai
of new institutions. BCV 's new status and the development of its organizafional and tehnical capacity will
enable it to fulfill more effiienty its function of implemting the G wvemmenes mcnxtay and excange pdoiy
and of supervising banking activities. To increse compti  in the banking sector, the Governent will take
steps to reduce BCA!s market share and the size of its balance sheet. The omposio  and role of BCA!s
exwcutive board will be strengthened according to criteria agreed with IDA. Any futre increase in BCA's capital
will take this objective into account. A ngorous debt recovery policy will be pursued with measu  being tak
to esure that curent bad debtors do not obtain new loans frim BCA or any other financial inu. Existig
lgislation requires all commercial banks to accept emiugnts' deposits; because of Cape Verde's need for foegn
exchange, and to prevent this policy fiom having a negative financial impact on the banks, the Govenment
undtakes to cmpsat the banks for the intest rate differetial wtin the limits of the law. Possible changes
in this systam will be studied with the assistance of the World Bank and the IMF.
in adto  interest rates on bank dqeosits and loans have already been liberalid, with the Govemmnit now
playing only an indirect role, by a4justing interest rates on Treaury notes and the disount rate. Banking
regulations will be revised so that the provisions goveming both the establishment of resere and the calculatin
of and accountng procedures for, bad debts to banks are brought into line with intemational standards.
As regards the publicly owned commei banks, CECV and BCA, the Govem_n undetkes to put
the entire capital of the former up for sale to private buyes by 1998, and the majority of the shares of BCA by
1999 at the latest. The foam and coxitions for these sales will be sbtdied in the liht of Cape Verde's laws, and
takig into accout te size and sructure of the banldng market and the need to promote comt. The
Governmnt also undtakoes to extd the same opeatig conditn to the CCR as apply to the other institu
in the financial systen, and the Govenment is committed to putig CCR's shares up for sale by Dooenber 1997
atthe latest.
As regards insmunce, the Govement will integrate ISCV, the monitng and supervory agency, into
BCV. In addition to the reforms already insuted, the GoveCmot plans to sell its shares in Garnlia in 1997
and promote the entry of other enterprises into the insurance sector. To allow for incresed compotio ansg
insurance cosmp  , by Decaeber 1996 at the latest the Govmmntt will dooontrol motor vhicle isuae
policy rates in line with the new regulations govering the nsuance sector, which should be in place not later
than July 1996.
in addion to the fuctoay ells in the Mindelo iduial zne financed by the Capacity Building
Project for Private Sector Promotion, the Governmt will cany out a study to identify ways of encouraging the



44
Page 6 of 7
privae sectr to finance the COnscOn of the f&ctory Shells that will be neoesay to mee the dniand fiom
enprises wanting to sd up in Cape Verde.
(iii)    Reform of the educa    systn and development of vocaonal tng. Fron 1991 to 1994,
the first phase of the education systan refoms was unplnented. This applied to basic education. One of the
aimu was to provide sudents with technical skills, thus enabling thbn to meet the needs of teprises.
At the same time, and in light of the curut sitaton in the labor maket (characteized by a work force
with veiy limtd skdlls), special short courses to provide vocational taing for the youngest mebes of the
lbor force - especially those seekdng thir first jobs - will be established. The needs of enterprises will be tak
ito accomt when these courses are prepared and taught.
(iv)    Adminiusive reform. The aurent process of adminsai ve reform will be oonued, with the
basic objectives nt only of reducing the opaetng costs of govemment dqarpments, but also of acing their
efficincy. To this end, from 1996 to 2000,  ministave reform will wnphasize the need to   nalize
organizatioal suctLur  and develop work procedues and biformation flow. Parbtclar attention will also be
given to developing a business  ltue in govemment agenc   and to  mr deveopment, with a view to
iroducing inreased compeivmess, so as to improve the quaity of service.
i order to develop a market economy, the Govemmnent will apply the following policies:
(1)    Contied deeopment of iastructure. To this end, impl t     of the currt pOt,
airport and road nfiastuctur program will be continued.  However, from  1996 to 2000 infiasuctue
developmet will focus particlauly on the following:
(a)    Deveopment of the industrial mnes, particulary Mindelo and Pmaja The Govemmeut
will pursue its policy of making the entire country an Export Processing Zone.
(b)    Implamentation of a project designed to meet the water and energy neods of economic
opators. (This project is curudy being peparwd wih support from IDA and otier donors.) The Govnenunt
will firther study the potnial role of the private sector in water and energy, in order to impve effcey and
the quality of setvice.
(c) The development oftecomm aicos. To this end, the Govenmat intends to ensure the
insallatio ofa fiber-opic cabl link to prvide an itemationa comection to one ofthe iWans.
(ii)      p     nn of economic policies for: (i) integrating Cape Verde into the global oonmr,
(u) developing trade with Souteian Africa, South America, and the Far East, among otar ngms.
(iii)   Developmet of the practice of "social consultion', so as to provide for the best possible
dialogu bdween mnwagement and Labor, and between these parties and the Govenmment and nsure that all
parcipe in the devdlopnm   ofthe coutry.
(iv)    Establishsnat of the Cape Verde International Trade Fair, with private sau, opewag
resoures, wide aut0onoy, and its own ficilities. The Govmunent will deavor to organize the Cape Verde
1io    Fair in partnarsbip with the private sector.



45
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
(v)    Sutgteing of instibuons to support the private sector. The Governmet inteds to provide
such institutions with all the resources necessary for caffying out their function. The recet merger of INATUR
and PROMEX fits into this frnmor.
In addition, the Government has provided support for the establishment and insllation of chambers of
commer, which are private law instiuons. The Government undertakes to transfer to the chambers of
commerce some of the services curtly provided by its agencies. The chambers of commerce will play a full
role as the voice of the private sector. The Government will mnain an ongoing dialogue with them on all issues
relating to the development of the private sector, taking account of their views and opinions, through a process of
pennanent consulation.
(vi)   Updating of economic legislation and guarantees of the effectiveness of the judicial system in
judging economic offenses. Currently under way are the revision of the Commercial Code, the prepation of the
law regulatng compton, establishmnent of the taxation and customns court, and the assignment and appropriate
training ofjudges with exclusive responsibility for dealing with economic offenses.
(vii) Economic protection and security. The concept of protection and security that the Government
is adopting is based on the following three principles:
(a)    Protection and security resulting from the application of sound macroecononuc
policies, and particularly the implementation of short-term stabilization policies designed to bring about domestic
and external equilibria. The aim of these policies is to promote the confidence of economic agents in prices,
wages, the control of inflation, exchange and interest rates, and the economy's extema liqudity.
(b)    Protection and security as afforded by the law, in order to make Cape Verde a counry
in which both individuals and property are protected by right.
(c) Protection through institutions with responsibility for policing economic affirs,
identifying and eliminating economic offenses, particularly those of an international nature, such as arms and
dnig traffickdng.
On behalf ofthe Republic of Cape Verde,
M. Antonio G. do Rosario
Minister of Economic Coordination
Washingtoin, April 11, 1996



46
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
LAWS REGARDING EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
1.    The Law on Foreign Investment stipulates that foreign investors are guaranteed the right
to transfer abroad all profits derived from investments in Cape Verde. They are also authorized to
maintain accounts in convertible currencies in banking institutions in Cape Verde and to conduct
all operations from these accounts. In addition to the investment incentives, such as exoneration of
taxes on profits and customs duties that are applicable, dividends and profits distributed to foreign
investors derived from  investments are not taxable.  Also, foreign investments are offered
protection against expropriation and nationalization.
2.     The Law on Incentives to Exports, which deals with the export or re-export of goods and
services, stipulates that taxes on profits during the first five years of export or re-export activities,
shall benefit from a reduction equal to the proportion of foreign currency earned to total earnings
of the exporting entity. This period can be successively and consecutively prorogated by periods of
one year, up to the maximum of ten years.
3.     The Law on Export-Processing Zones grants special incentives to enterprises whose total
production of goods or services is either exported or sold to other enterprises whose production is
also entirely destined to export markets. These incentives include: (i) complete exemption from
taxes on profits during the first ten years of activities; (ii) exoneration of taxes on dividends and
profits distributed to the shareholders of the free zone enterprise during the first ten years of
operations; and (iii) complete exoneration of indirect taxes, including the stamp tax. After this
initial period of exoneration, the tax rate on profits and dividends of the free zone enterprises will
not exceed 15% during any fiscal year. Free-zone enterprises can also import and export without
obtaining licenses.
4.    In addition to the above legislative measures, the Government has taken action to
streamline and accelerate the approval process of foreign investments as well as the granting of the
status of export processing enterprises. It has also created the Commission for the Approval of
Foreign Investments and of Export Processing Enterprises (Resolution no. 43/93 of the Council of
Ministers of August 31, 1993), and has modified the labor code to provide greater flexibility
regarding workers' employment conditions, particularly hiring and firing (lei. 10l/IV/93 of
December 31, 1993).



47
ANNEX 3
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
ECONOMIC SECTORS
1.    Manufacturing. The industrial sector's contribution of to the economy has gradually
increased from 3.7% of GDP in 1980, to 6.8% in 1985, and 8% in 1990. Statistics are not
currently available on the contribution of the private industrial sector to GDP. As of 1994, a total
of 101 enterprises, employing 3,300 persons, were categorized as industrial, of which 90% were
privately-owned, and 10% were joint ventures between the Government and private investors.
Although they are listed in 44 different fields of activity, the following six account for more than
half of the total number of enterprises: repair services (16 enterprises), carpentry (11), civil
construction (9), bakeries (8), graphic arts and metal products (6 each). Surprisingly, despite the
abundance of marine resources in Cape Verde, only four enterprises are involved in the processing
of seafood products,. Most industrial enterprises are small: only 17% employ more than 50
employees.
2.    Trade. The private sector plays a dominant role in trade which accounts for 20% of GDP
and represents one of the most developed sectors in Cape Verde. This is a legacy from the colonial
era when almost everything consumed on the islands was imported from Portugal by traders.
3.    Tourism. Cape Verde's climatic conditions, abundance of beautiful beaches, political
stability, and relative proximity by air to major European capitals are important assets for the
promotion of the tourism industry. Despite its potential, tourism does not play a significant role in
the economy and accounts for only about 2% of GDP. In 1988, the Government decided to give
priority to tourism development, but left most activities to private sector initiatives. The
Government has also agreed that the development of the sector would be synchronized with public
and private infrastructure investments in energy, sanitation and transport. In recent years, the
number of tourist facilities has increased significantly. In 1985, there were 8 hotels and 16 lodges
in the country; by 1993, the number of units had increased to 54, with a total of 1,100 rooms and
2,100 beds. In 1992, about 19,000 visitors (versus about 14,000 in 1986, resulting in a 36%
increase over four years) came to Cape Verde. It is estimated that about 1,300 persons are
employed in the sector. The occupancy rates of hotels in Sal and Praia range from 60 to 80%..
4.    A fifteen-year National Development Plan for Tourism, 1994-2009 (Piano Nacional de
Desenvolvimento do Turismo, PDNT) was prepared by the National Institute for Tourism,
INATUR (para. 2.17), with assistance from a Spanish consulting firm. The plan is divided into
three five-year implementation periods and calls for the creation of "special tourist zones", which
are areas on the various islands where hotel infrastructure and other tourist facilities would be
developed. The objectives for the first five-year period (1994-99), as expressed in the National
Development Plan for Tourism, are to: (i) have 62,000 visitors each year by 1999; (ii) have 4,500
hotel rooms of international standard or 9,100 beds; (iii) increase the average length of stay of
tourists from 5.9 to 8 days; (iv) create 11,000 new jobs in the hotel sector; (iv) attract foreign
exchange amounting to US$11.0 million during the last year of the plan; (v) promote domestic and
foreign investments in the sector; and (vi) increase inter-island tourism. Currently, 13 new hotel
projects, which would add about 1,500 beds to the country's logding capacity, have been identified



48
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 2
by private foreign investors with assistance from INATUR. Five of these projects have already
been approved or are under construction; two are being appraised and six are under discussion. If
the 13 projects actually materialize, Cape Verde would have, by the end of 1996, a total of 1800
hotel rooms (3,200 beds) of international standard..
5.     Fishing. Fisheries, which currently account for less than 3% of GDP, represent another
sector in which Cape Verde has some comparative advantage due to the large number of fish
species in the surrounding waters. The total annual sustainable yield of the sector is estimated at
about 42,000 tons, of which 7,300 tons are of deep water species, 11,000 tons are small pelagic
species, 22,000 tons are tuna and 1,800 tons are lobsters. Fishing in Cape Verde is predomiinantly
performed by artisans who account for about 85% of all of the fishermen in the country and
operate approximately 1,330 small, open boats, of which half are motorized.
6.     Fish Processing. About 6% of the sector's total annual catch is processed into canned
fish products and fish meal. Four small factories involved in fish processing operate at a very low
capacity of only 10% and are very dependent on the tuna run, which takes place during the second
half of the year. Facilities related to the fishing industry include fishing wharves 340 meters long
in Sao Vicente as well as cold storage units of 25,450 cubic meters, deep freezers with a capacity
of 30 tons daily, a ship repair facility and a maritime training school. On the island of Sal, there
are fishing wharves, a cold storage plant of 1,660 cubic meters, a deep freezer with a processing
capacity of 15 tons per day, as well as a lobster hatchery.



49
ANNEX4
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMTION
INSTITUTIONS PROVIDING SUPPORT TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR
1.    Local Insuions  Two insfitutions are curraty responsible for providing support to
develop the pnvate sector PROMEX and LADE. Most of hese insttuas have only recently
started operations. To ensure adequate cooperation among then, while avoidig duplicatio, the
Goverment intends to create an investnent committee, which will include these insbtitons, to
coordinate all investment policies designed to help the private sectr. It is expocted that the
committee will be operational by mid-1996.
2.    PROMEX was created in 1990 by the Government, with assistance fmm the US Agency
for Intemational Development (USAID), to assist in export promotion and foreign investnent
development. USAID has funded part of PROMEX's operating expenses, but is withdrawing frmm
Cape Verde at the end of 1995. In 1992, the Govemnment revised PROMEX's sttutes to give the
agency sufficient autonomy or decision making power to enable it to fulfill its fiucbons efectively,
and PROMEX commenced operations as a one-stop-shop for foreign investors.
3.     Since 1992, PROMEX has played a significant role in the preparation of various laws
necessary to facilitate the establishment of foreign investments in Cape Verde. It is actively
seeking to attract foreign investments in the country and, in spite of existing cosaints, it has
succeded in attracting five foreign enterprises which have collectively invested US$8.5 million in
light manuficturing. As a result, the creation of about 800 jobs is expected. Further investments
are currently being considered by several enterpises from Hong Kong and Porhtgal. There is
particular interest in garment manufacturing, an area in which Cape Verde has a signifcant
comparative advantage due to its relatively low labor costs and its prefinal access to markets of
the European Union, the United States and te ECOWAS countries.
4.    INATUR was created in February 1993 (Decreto No. 1/93) to promote the developmet of
the tourism sector. Specifically, INATUR was responsible for helping the Govemment to defi
the national policy for tourism development, preparing plans and programs for the development of
tourism, and ensuring their implementation. However, due to similarities in the mandates given to
PROMEX and INATUR, the Government merged, in October, INATUR into PROMEX to achieve
economies of scale and better utiization of the limited human and financial resources.
5.    LADE was created at the beginning of 1992 with the asnce of the Afncan
Development Bank for the purpose of developing entrepreneurial capabilities and improving the
utilization of the instlled productive capacity. LADE, which started operating in October 1993, is
expected mainly to provide assistance to smal- and medium-size enterprises in technical, financiatl
commercial, or organizational areas to improve their productivity and their ability to compte in
domestic and external markets. Untl now, LXDE has provided assistance to a very limited
number of enterprises. This is due, in part, to its operating procedures which require the approval
of its assistance contracts by the Minister of Economic Coordination himself. Undertandably,
private entrepreneurs are reluctant to provide information on their activities to LADE as they know



50
ANNEX4
Page 2 of 2
that such information will be communicated to high-level Government officials. IADE is therefore
not effectively playing its mandated role and needs a major restructuring program which would
involve, among other things, (a) a management change; (b) a redefinition of its relationship with the
Government; and (c) a modification of its operating procedures.
6.    Trade Associations.  There are two trade associations: the Associa,cao Comercial
Sotavento, which includes commercial enterprises located in the first group of islands of Santiago,
Fogo, Brava and Maio; the Associagao Comercial Barlavento, which includes commercial
enterprises in the second group of islands of Sao Vicente, Santo Antao, San Nicolau, Sal and
Boavista; the majority of its members are concentrated on the Sao Vicente island



51
ANNEX 5
Page I of 14
CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
SELECTED FINANCIAL SECTOR TOPICS
A. Supervision And Regulation Of Financial Institutions
Bankdng Supervision
1.    Organization. The supervision of banks is the responsibility of Cape Verde's central bank, the
Banco de Cabo Verde. A banking supervision departnent was established in September, 1993 when the
Banco de Cabo Verde transferred its commercial banking activities to the newly-created Banco Comerctal
do Atlantico. The supervisory staff comprises the director of the department, two supervisors, and one
trainee. Since its creation, the department has been receiving assistance from the Banco de Portugal. As a
result, the department is generally well organized and managed, with most important supervisory policies,
procedures, and regulations in place. However, significant gaps in regulation do exist. These weaknesses
are discussed below in paragraph 9.
2.    The banking supervision department has embraced a supervisory approach which encompasses
both on-site examination and off-site surveillance. This is entirely appropriate and suitable for the needs of
Cape Verde.
3.    On-site Examination. Since its inception, the department has examined the Caixa Economica
twice. One examination was a comprehensive examination which focused on all significant areas of risk, as
well as the CAMEL (Capital Adequacy, Asset Quality, Management, Earnings, and Liquidity)
components. The second examination was targeted to foreign exchange activities. Thus far, however, the
Banco Comercial do Atlantico has not been examnined. A planned examination was postponed in view of
the special diagnostic audit which was carried out for the 1994 accounts. Written examination procedures
are tailored for each examination depending on its planned scope. The report of examination is primarily in
narrative form and examiners are expected to render specific conclusions on all major areas of examination
miterest. Reports are discussed with the bank's administrative council. This discussion should be further
extended to the supervisory board. It is intended that comprehensive general examinations of each bank are
carried out once per year.
4.    The examination process is developing in an appropriate manner. However, additional experience,
particularly in assessing asset quality and its implications for a bank's financial health, is noeded.
Experienced examiners in some industrialized countries will have analyzed thousands upon thousands of
credits. There is no easy way to gain such experience except by doing it. Continued training in on-site
examination and credit analysis provided by the Banco de Portugal and financed under this project wil
support the further development of the on-site examination process.
5.    The examination process can provide additional benefits by its use as a catalyst in bringing about
changes in the way banks are managed. In particular, examiners should stress the need for banks to obtain
current and satisfactory financial information on their borrowers from the inception of a loan to its ultimate
repayment. There is no substitute for such information in evaluating the quality of credit. Admittedly, the
quality of this information may be poor in the short-term. However, over time, as banks realize its use and
educate their borrowers, the quality of information should improve. Obviously, the nature of the financial
infonnation required of commercial enterprises wil differ from that of individuals. Other areas where the



52
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 14
examination process can provide the stimulus for change are strategic planning, loan review, and the
adoption of written policies.
6.     Off-site Surveillance. Periodic prudential reports submitted to the Banco de Cabo Verde form the
basis of the department's off-site surveillance function. Reports are required in the following areas: Risk-
based capital adequacy, Components of capital, limits on fixed assets, Liquidity, Limits on large exposures,
Equity participations, Minimum provisions, Investment in Government Securities, Registration of banks,
and Registration of bank officials.
7.     These reports provide a starting point for an effective off-site surveillance function. However, the
off-site reporting system can be improved through the development of a more detailed analytical base which
permits evaluation of banks using ratio and trend analysis. Prudential reports should be compiled in a
standard analytical format where such ratios and trends are calculated. When justified by the number of
banks, peer groups should also be introduced for comparison. The off-site analysis should provide an
interim means of evaluating or monitoring a bank's efficiency and profitability, funding strategies, exposure
to interest rate and foreign exchange position risks, past due loans, growth trends and capital between on-
site examinations. However, it will not substitute for a thorough on-site analysis of asset quality, internal
controls, and management. The automated off-site system should also permit ad-hoc reports and queries, as
well as the downloading of information into spreadsheets for modeling and sensitivity analysis. The project
will support the financing of appropriate software to drive an automated off-site surveillance system.
8.     Because of serious operational difficulties at the Banco Comercial do Atlantico, it has failed to
submit the required prudential reports. Thus, in practice, the supervision department's off-site monitoring
function has been frustrated.
Prudential Regulations and the Legal Framework for Financial Institutions
9.     Prudential Regulations. Laws or prudential regulations have been promulgated in the Official
Bulletin of Cabo Verde addressing the following topics: limits on concentrations of credit risk, risk-based
capital adequacy, minimum loan loss provisions, limits on equity participations, limits on investment in
fixed assets, internal controls, licensing, loans to insiders and connected parties, enforcement powers, and
minimum provisions. As noted above, there are, however, gaps in the existing regulations which require
action on the part of the Banco de Cabo Verde. These weaknesses are as follows:
Classification of Assets, Provisioning, and Treatment of Interest on Non-Performing
Assets. An existing regulation classifies loans and requires minimum provisions based only on historic
performnance, i.e., past due status. Since one reason for grading the quality of credit is to identify problems
at an early stage when they can still be corrected, the classification criteria should focus not only on historic
performance but also, and very importantly, on prospective performance. An assessment should be made of
a borrower's ability to repay the bank through primary sources of repayment, i.e., cash flow for term debt,
and the business asset conversion cycle for working capital credit. This assessment can only be made
through current and satisfactory financial information obtained from the borrower through the life of a
loan. The current regulation serves to understate the problems existing within the loan portfolio since many
problem assets will not immediately show up as past due. In addition, provisioning rates are liberal when
compared to past due status. For instance, a loan up to three months past due requires only a 1% provision.
By the time a loan is approaching three months past due, it is likely that all liquid assets have already been
dissipated. Thus, the risk of loss must be higher than only 1%. Further, specific rules should be established



53
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 14
regarding the suspension or non-accrual of interest on non-performing assets and the accounting treatment
to be accorded such interest, to included reversal of previously accrued but uncolected interest taken into
income. Rules should also address capitalization or refinancing of interest which is due and uncolected.
The regulation should also require write-off of old outstanding items and classification of other assets such
as foreclosed real estate.
Capital Adequacy. There is an existing regulation requiring a minimum capital adequacy
ratio using a risk-weighted assets formula. However, the risk-weights assigned to certain asset categories
are questionable given the economic environment in which the banks are operating. Of these, the weight of
50% assigned to housing loans is the most questionable. Although the Basle guideline allows national
discretion and permits a 50% weight for residential mortgage loans, the weighting was the subject of much
dispute within the Committee. In Cape Verde, since real estate is the most widely used collateral, the 50%
weight tends to dilute the mandatory minimum capital requirement. Collateral, in most cases, does not
repay loans. If the bank had to foreclose, there would be the expense and time of foreclosure, costs to
maintain or improve the property before it could be sold, the costs of security guards, opportunity costs as
funds are tied up in a non-earning asset which, most likely, is being funded by an interest-bearing liability,
etc. Thus, real estate is not the panacea to sound assessment of a borrower's primary sources of repayment.
Many countries have experienced collapses in their residential property markets. Further, the legal system
in Cape Verde does not yet permit timely foreclosure or repossession of collateral. There are strong
arguments, therefore, for saying that loans secured by real estate are a normal banking risk--a risk which
should require a standard risk-weight of 100%.
Uncovered Foreign Exchange Positions. A regulation should establish the outside
constraints on risk-taking by banks in foreign exchange activities. These constraints should limit the net
open position in any single currency and the aggregate net open position in all currencies, as a percent of
the bank's unimpaired capital and reserves. In addition, the regulation should require that all positions in
foreign currency are revalued at least monthly and all losses, realized or unrealized, resulting from the
revaluation are immediately recognized as an expense of the bank and all gains, realized or unrealized,
resulting from the revaluation are immediately recognized as income to the bank. The regulation should
also require banks to formulate written policies governing foreign exchange activities. These policies should
include a formal ratification of internal limits, within the tolerances established by the regulation, governing
overnight open positions by currency and for all currencies combined. Where the volume of activities
warrants, intraday limits should also be established. Limits should also be established for counterparty
credit, settlement, and country risks. Country limits should be established for total exposures to all
counterparties in each country. Limits should also be established for foreign currency interest rate and
liquidity risks as part of overall asset and liability management.
Resolution of Failed Banks. The Banco de Cabo Verde should have powers to close an
institution when it is technically insolvent or approaching technical insolvency, i.e., the value of the bank's
assets is less than the amount of its liabilities. When a bank is permitted to operate while insolvent, its
losses are most likely to grow rapidly in a perverse, but unsustainable, spiral of interest rate increases on
deposits and ratcheting up of the amount of bad loans in the portfolio -- culminating in the eventual
illiquidity of the bank and potential govermnent liability to depositors. The resolution of failed banks is a
difficult and complex issue in all countries. It is important, then, that the Banco de Cabo Verde is granted a
broad array of discretionary powers to deal with such situations. The experience of most countries suggests
that ad-hoc approaches do not work when attempting to resolve failed bank situations. If a failed bank is to
be restructured, certain key principles apply: a) the bank's management is removed; b) the shareholders,
who have lost their investment, are wiped out by the losses sustained; c) the bad assets are carved out of the
balance sheet, preferably with government bonds; and d) the pricing of the bonds used in



-54                                  ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 14
the financial restructuring must ensure that the bank returns to profitable operations. The legal framework
should permit the central bank to undertake all these actions, i.e., to declare a bank insolvent and closed, to
remove management, to wipe out the shareholders of a failed bank, and to carve out bad assets, in a timely
manner based on the factual conditions existing. When a political decision is involved, action often is
delayed, causing losses to mount. In a liquidation situation, in order to maintain the stability of the banking
system and avoid a banking panic, the Banco de Cabo Verde may find it necessary to finance the payoff of
depositors or assumption of deposits by another institution. The usual rule in deciding whether to
restructure or liquidate and the methodology to be used is that the least cost alternative should be used,
provided that stability in the banking system is maintained. Given the complexity of these issues,
particularly during times of financial system distress, the legal framework should be strengthened to
provide for such possibilities in advance of the actual need. Therefore, appropriate legislative changes
should be made granting these powers to the Banco de Cabo Verde.
10.   Debt Recovery. In addition to strengthening the prudential environment, there is a need for
additional legislation in the area of debt recovery. Currently, banks have difficulty in collecting on
delinquent debts because the court system is januned with civil and criminal cases. A case may not be taken
up by the court for several years. This delay contributes to a poor repayment ethic as even those capable of
paying see no reason not to be slow in their paymnents. Once a case is heard by the court, however, the bank
is generally successful in obtaining a favorable decision. Clearly, there is a need to bypass the normal court
system with a special court, or a commercial tribunal, that deals only with issues of commercial law. This
would expedite the hearing of simple foreclosure actions so that banks would be able to instill discipline in
the repayment practices of their borrowers. For assets other than real property, laws should permit the bank
to physically repossess the asset without resorting to the court system. This would benefit the bank by
allowing it to acquire the asset before its value dissipates further, thus reducing the amount of loss that may
be incurred. If a debtor believes he has been wronged, it should be up to him to bring suit for redress. The
project will seek additional legislation to implement these recommendations.
Centralized Credit Risk Information System
11.   A law has been approved, but not yet promulgated, authorizing the creation of a centralized credit
risk information system. In addition to its supervisory duties, the department of bank supervision is
responsible for the development and maintenance of this system. The proposed system will collect
information on borrowers from all banks. Ideally, the bank supervision department hopes to collect this
infornation on diskette so that it can be quickly loaded on computer and consolidated with information
collected from other banks. Each borrower will have a unique identification number--either his national
identity card number for individuals, or a tax identification number for companies. The type of information
to be collected has not yet been decided, but will include basic information such as the name of the
borrower, the amount outstanding, the maturity date of the loan, the current status of payments, etc. Banks
will be the only authorized users of the system. When information is reported to a bank, it will be in
aggregate form, i.e., the borrower's loans will not be attributed to a specific institution. Past due
information on a borrower will also be reported on a global basis. The project will support the development
of this systemn.
Insurance Supervision
12.   Supervision of insurance institutions is the responsibility of the Instituto de Seguros de Cabo
Verde. The Institute has only six employees including the Commissioner, two technical assistants, and three
clerical personnel. Thus far, supervisory activities have been limited to off-site monitoring through
prudential returns filed by the insurance companies. On-site examinations have not yet taken place.



55
ANNEX 5
PageS of 14
Assistance is being provided from Portuguese sources. Given the smaU size of the Institute, it lacks
authority. Thus, the project will propose that the function be merged as a separate division with the
department of banking supervision in the Banco de Cabo Verde. The professional staff in both banking
supervision and insurance supervision should be cross-trained to create a pool of trained personnel
available to carry out supervisory activities in either discipline. The proposed merger should result in
synergies such as the elimination of overheads and increased prominence of the supervisory function.
Additional training for insurance supervision will be provided under the project.
13.   Insurance regulations currently impose a subsidized, mandatory motor vehicle premium rate and a
limit on suitable investment alternatives. They also need clarification with respect to reinsurance guidelines.
Therefore, the project will support a review of insurance regulations, to include technical and mathematical
reserve requirements, investment policies and constraints, reinsurance guidelines, and mandatory premium
rates, so that the latter reflects underlying risk.
B. Analysis of Caixa Economica and Banco Comercial Do Atlantico
I. Financial Appraisal Of Caixa Economica Dc Cabo Verde
14.   Overall Conclusion. The overall financial condition and future prospects of Caixa Economica de
Cabo Verde are good. The bank is well-managed, very well-capitalized, has a good reputation, and should
expect strong earnings in 1995. Given the problems of its chief competitor, the bank has an opportunity to
expand market share and become a more significant player in the market. The overall outlook is
exceptionally bright.
15.   Background. The Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde was established as a postal savings bank in
1928. It received its banking license in September 1993. Currently, it operates two banking offices, the
head office in Praia and a branch in Mindelo, as well as 15 postal agencies. It has 56 employees. The bank
is the second largest in Cape Verde with a 10% market share of assets, 20% share of net loans, and 8%
share of deposits. The bank is wholly-owned by the Government (through the Ministry of Economic
Coordination and three state-owned enterprises). However, the Government plans to sell to the public all
shares of Caixa Economica by 1997.
16.   Financial statements for 1994 were audited. In the opinion of the auditors, the financial statements
represent a true and fair portrayal of the bank's position as of December 31, 1994. However, the auditors
expressed one caveat. Because of the large number of small loans and the time constraints under which they
were working, they could not examine enough credits to make an adequate test of the provision for loan
losses.
17.   Management. The management team is competent, well-organized, and in-tune with market
developments. The bank's president joined the bank in 1991. Although not a banker by training or prior
experience, she has adapted remarkably well by using common sense and good business judgment. She
clearly provides vision and leadership, and appears to be an effective delegator and innovator. The staff is
well-integrated into the operations of the bank and supporting managers are capable.
18.   Asset Quality. Asset quality is fair. At year-end, past due loans of more than one month
aggregated approximately 22% of outstanding loans and 74% of the bank's capital and loan loss reserves.
By June 30, 1995, the volume of past due loans had declined to 12%., which shows a significant
improvement. Management indicates that individual borrowers tend to delay payments over the holiday
season at Christmas, thus explaining somewhat the higher past due ratio. Nonetheless, past due amounts



56
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 14
above 10%/., even in a developing country environment, are a cause of concem and require even greater
attention to collection activities. Two-thirds of the past due amounts are less than six months overdue. To
intensify collection activities, management has employed local attomeys on a commission basis. Several
cases have DOW been brought to court. Management also has initiated an active cal program to identify
loan problems at an early stage, as wel as to identify market opportunities. Since year-end, capital has
been augmented by an additional 30 million escudos, thus reducing the volume of past due loans to about
52% of the bank's gross capital funds. When the additional 48 million escudos in capital is issued, this
percentage will decline further to about 46%.
19.   Since receiving its banking license, Caixa Economica has been diversifying from its traditional
housing and consumer credits to short-termn commercial finance and longer-term projects. As of 12/31/94,
the portfolio mix was as follows: housing loans - 42%/o, consumer loans - 25%, commercial loans - 21%,
and aUl others - 12%. The past due amounts are mostly in the housing and consumer loan categories. To
better control past dues, repayment of housing loans is being set up on a payroll deduction plan with the
agreement of the borrower's employer whenever possible.
20.   Loans to individuals for housing and consumer credit, unlike commercial loans, are generally
evaluated on a performance basis. Thus, even though the auditors did not have the opportunity to review a
large enough portion of the small loans to comfortably opine on the adequacy of the loan loss provisions,
the likelihood is that, in this instance, the past dues portray a reasonable picture of portfolio quality. With
that assumption, the loan loss reserve of nearly 6% of net loans is probably realistic. Nevertheless,
continued vigilance is necessary and any deterioration in portfolio quality should be iunmediately met with
additional provisions.
21.   As noted above, commercial lending activities are relatively new. The bank has established lending
authorities at its branch and within its main office, as weUl as a loan committee of seven persons to review
larger loan requests. Despite a period of rapid growth in lending early this year, loan growth has recently
slowed due to the credit ceilings imposed under the Government's program with the IMF to constrain
monetary expansion. However, many projects remain in the pipeline. For 1994, net loans increased by 19%
over the prior year end.
22.   The bank is involved with several bilateral donors, including Caisse Francaise de Developpment
and the US Agency for International Development, and NGOs in microenterprise on-lending schemes. The
latter have provided resources of FF 5 millien and US$3 million, respectively. Monies are used for small
and medium and micro enterprise projects.
23.   Earnings. Earnings for 1994 were fair. The bank suffered a net loss of 4 million escudos, or a
negative return on assets of .22%. However, the loss was largely due to two factors. The first was the non-
recurring expenses attributed to preparatory work for the automation of the bank's activities. This is bome
out by the high non-interest expense of 4.49% of average assets. The second factor is that the bank had
little investment alternatives in 1994 since treasury bills had not yet been introduced and the bank had little
choice but to let funds remain idle. The lack of investment alternatives is reflected in the relatively low
earning assets ratio. Average earning assets were only 65% of average assets. The amount of cash and due
from banks was nearly 30% of total assets. With the introduction of treasury bills, there is now another
investment alternative. The bank has taken advantage of this by purchasing approximately 600 mnillion
escudos in T-bills since their introduction at a tax-equivalent yield of about 8.9%.
24.   Thus, both factors that led to the loss in 1994 have been addressed. Otherwise, the bank's income
and expense structure looks sound. The bank's interest income as a percent of average assets was 7.58%



57
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 14
compared to interest expense of 3.74% of average assets. This resulted in net interest earnings of 3.65%.
The yield on average earning assets was 11.69%, the cost of interest bearing liabilities as a percent of
average eaming assets was 6.07%/o-leading to a healthy net interest margin og 5.62%. The yield on loans
was 12.33%. While the cost of time deposits was relatively high at 9.38%, the bank enjoyed a favorable
mix of deposits with demand and low-cost savings accounts representing two-thirds of the deposit base.
Management is discouraging new deposits unless it can employ them profitably. Earnings, therefore, should
be healthy for 1995 barring unforeseen events.
25.   Capital Adequacy. The bank is very well-capitalized. At year end, book capital represented 12.6%
of end-of-period assets. On a risk-weighted basis, capital was 17% of risk-weighted assets. An additional
48 million escudos in capital is to be sold pending the finalization of the 1994 audit. The stock issue is fully
subscribed. Given the strong eamings performance from core activities expected in 1995, there is no reason
to believe that capital will not remain adequate as a cushion against unforeseen losses.
26.   Liquidity, Asset and Liability Management. Liquidity, asset and liability management practices
are satisfactory. For the most part, the bank uses traditional asset management techniques to meet its
liquidity needs. Funding is primarily provided through low cost deposits. With the introduction of short-
term treasury bills, management is now able to invest in a secondary source of liquidity. Management
closely monitors deposit costs and alternatives for investment. High cost sources of funds, such as emigrant
deposits, are discouraged. The bank has adequate availability of funds to meet its loan demand but is
constrained by the credit ceilings imposed on it.
27.   Interal Control and Internal Audit Activities. Intenal controls are satisfactory. Although the
auditors noted several internal control weaknesses, none was judged as significant. Overall, the bank is
well-organized, and administrative and accounting controls appear to be in order.
28.   The bank does not yet have an internal auditor. However, there are plans to create an intemal
auditor position in the near tern. The person designated by management to fill this position is currently the
accounting manager and is very capable. He will assume his new duties once a suitable replacement can be
found for him in the accounting area. His selection demonstrates management's strong commnitment to
establishing the internal audit function as an important bank activity.
29.   Future Prospects. Future prospects for Caixa Economica are good. The bank is well-managed,
adequately capitalized, and should enjoy strong earnings during 1995. With the problems at the Banco
Comercial do Atlantico, there exists an opportunity to expand market share and play an important role
within the Cape Verde economy. Management plans to further market its services through post offices, to
further develop its commercial lending activities, to market foreign exchange services to selected clients, to
strengthen its credit administration, and to augment its range of services, with products such as ATMs and
secondary market activities in T-bills. At the same time, management plans to maintain its niche in the
housing area.
30.   Technical Assistance Needs. The bank can use assistance in four areas: strategic and business
planning; the implementation of cost accounting, profit centers, and transfer pricing; new product
development; and the establishmnent of the internal audit function. In addition to staff training, the project
will provide assistance in these areas.



58
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 14
II. Fmancial Appraisal of the BCA And Recommended Action Plan For Its Restructuring
(a) Financial Analysis of the BCA
31.   Overall Conclusion. The overall financial condition and future prospects of the Banco Comercial
do Atlantico are poor. The bank is in disarray, poorly managed, and in serious financial distress. Its
operations reflect significant weaknesses in internal accounting and administrative controls, non-
compliance with internal policies and procedures, violations of banking regulations, and unsafe and
unsound lending practices. The bank's future viability can only be assured through strong actions designed
to change its banking culture and management practices, through the introduction of a professional
management, the establishment and adherence to tough new banking policies and procedures, automation of
management information systems, a willingness to dispense with the services of individuals who cannot
perform satisfactorily and to discontinue unprofitable operations, and a concerted effort to remake the
institution from the ground up. An action plan to restore the bank to financial, operational, and managerial
health is presented below.
32.   Background. The Banco Comercial do Atlantico was created in September 1993 when it assumed
the commercial banking operations of the central bank, the Banco de Cabo Verde. The bank operates 12
branches and has 366 employees. As of December 31, 1994, the bank had a 90% market share of assets,
80% share of loans, and 92% share of deposits, making it the predominant banking institution in Cape
Verde. The bank is Government-owned.
33.   Financial statements for 1994 were provisionally audited. However, the auditors were unable to
express an opinion on the financial statements due to the following limitations: a) financial statements were
not prepared for year-end 1993, thus comparative financial statements are not available and there is a lack
of continuity; b) the financial results have not yet been approved and finalized - all numbers are still
provisional; c) there are significant deficiencies in accounting and internal controls including the absence of
reconciliations, lack of supporting documentation, an inability to check accounts, and the lack of an audit
trail. Thus, the accuracy and reliability of information cannot be ascertained; and d) information on
borrowers was not available to determine the adequacy of loan loss provisions. The auditors state that they
cannot assure that all problems have been identified because of the bank's general state of disarray.
34.   Management. With the exception of the bank's new president, management is unsatisfactory.
Admittedly, many of the bank's problems are inherited from the Banco de Cabo Verde and some problems
are due to the inadequacies of the management information system. However, this does not excuse the many
weaknesses within the control of management such as the need to reconcile accounts, maintain adequate
intemal accounting and administrative controls, pursue active collection activities on delinquent borrowers,
grant and administer loans on a sound basis, adhere to established policies, etc. While some members of the
management team might be capable in a nonnal banking environment, they have been unable to exercise the
tough decision-making and leadership called for in a distress situation. Clearly, a turnaround managment
is required.
35.   Notwithstanding the foregoing comments, the bank's new president appears capable of leading the
bank back to health if given adequate support. Since joining the bank in February 1995, he has correcdy
diagnosed the bank's many problems and begun to take appropriate steps to tum the bank around. He has
personally taken responsibility for renegotiating several large delinquent loans and he recently negotiated a
contract to upgrade the bank's data processing facilities and inplement a new management information
system. However, he needs help in the form of a strong supporting management team. To this end, the
project will support the employment of capable supporting managers experienced in turnaround situations.



59                                  ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 14
36.    Adding to the bank's management problems, is an organizational structure in which there is an
excessive number of departments, where some activities are duplicated and some departments lack clear
definition. On the other hand, the bank lacks a marketing function and formalized planning (strategic plan,
operations plan, capital plan, etc.). Management's time horizon is short-term, day-to-day, rather than
strategic. Management reacts rather than leads. Further, branch operations are largely independent and lack
adequate supervision by head office. A new human resources management policy is required, including job
descriptions, performance evaluation, recruitment policy, etc. Although employees are now evaluated, the
evaluation is perfunctory. The intent of new human resources management policies should be to better
define accountability and evaluate and reward performance.
37.    Supervision by the board of directors is poor. Not only has the board of directors not provided
adequate supervision, it has interfered in the day-to-day operations of the bank, by-passing the normal
credit approval process. Rather than referring credit requests to the bank's lending staff so that the
applications could be evaluated in a normal manner, members of the board simply directed that the loans be
granted. This is a serious breach of fiduciary responsibility and bank policy. The directors should be held
personally responsible for the repayment of these loans. Clearly, there is a need to reconstitute the board of
directors with responsible members who can actively contribute in a positive way to the bank's restoration
to health. Further, the board's duties and responsibilities must be clearly spelled out. The board must
provide prudent and capable leadership while supervising the affairs of the bank in an informed and
responsible manner.
38.    At year-end, the bank had 366 employees in the head office and twelve branches. The supporting
staff, although better paid than the market, is poorly trained and lacks a customer service orientation.
Staffing levels are high and can certainly be reduced without any significant reduction in services. Training
of staff should be an important priority and requires serious attention.
39.    Asset Quality. Asset quality is unsatisfactory. The bank's loan portfolio is divided into the
following sectors: construction (26%), commercial (19%), transport (10%), industry (9%), others (23%),
and past due (13%). Unfortunately, information to allocate past dues by sector was not available, nor was
an aging of the past due accounts. In order to determine the financial condition of borrowers in these
sectors, detailed financial information is required. However, the financial statement information available to
the auditors was inadequate to evaluate repayment prospects. Nonetheless, past due loans, at 13% of loans
outstanding, are relatively high and, given the weaknesses described below, the condition of the portfolio is
likely to be much worse. At 12/31/94, the volume of the past due loans represented 65% of the bank's gross
capital funds (capital funds and loan loss reserves). This means that at least 65% of the bank's capital and
reserves is represented by assets which are problematic in nature. Despite the level of delinquencies, by
year-end 1994, not a single loan had been taken to court for collection. Only since the arrival of the new
president, and his personal efforts, has the bank become more aggressive in collections. The new president
recently engaged outside legal counsel to pursue collections on a commission basis.
40.   The numbers alone, however, don't tell the whole story. Based on an evaluation of the credit
process, the risks associated with the loan portfolio are significantly higher than indicated by the past due
amounts. The auditors report major weaknesses in loan approval and administration. For example, loan
files lack adequate information, including financial statements and collateral documentation; lending limits
are not controlled-there is no central information file or liability ledger on individual borrowers that would
capture a borrower's total loans outstanding; branches have independent credit tracking systems and
delinquencies at one branch are not communicated to head office or other branches; concentrations of credit



60                                        ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 14
exist; collection activities are dispersed throughout the bank, rather than being centalized in a workout
unit; some loans lack guarantees and, even when a guaranty is obtained, the bank often fails to determine if
the guarantor has the capacity and character to repay if called upon; mortgages are not registered; real
estate is not appraised or valued; transactions are processed incorrectly; the conditions for obtaining credit
are not met; credit rules are not followed; accruals are posted incorrectly; etc.
41.    The auditors further report that the bank lacks policies to control credit risk. They note the lack of
uniform credit standards and rules for defining past dues, problem credits, and the treatment to be accorded
interest on non-performing assets, the need for a credit grading system, the lack of portfolio management
guidelines, and the need for more stringent underwriting standards, including the analysis of financial
indicators and economic factors.
42.    The amount of provisions for loan losses is determined by individual branches based on their past
due accounts. Unfortunately, because the branches do not report aging of their past dues, the head office
has no way of ascertaining the reliability of reported amounts and of determining the quality of these assets.
Because loans are not graded based on an assessment of a borrower's ability to repay, the amount of
provisions which have been established is alnost certainly inadequate. A comprehensive loan review is
necessary to ascertain the true situation.
43.    Given the difficulties in the lending area, it is clear that it needs a complete overhaul, including the
establishment of an internal loan review function and a loan workout unit.
44.    Problem assets, however, are not limited to the loan portfolio. Unreconciled differences between
trial balance amounts and the general ledger, large undocumented suspense accounts (488 million escudos
at 12/31/94), differences between head office and branch accounts, unreconciled due from bank accounts,
and various other asset amounts are subject to potential write-off. The situation is so grave that the auditors
were not able to resolve these situations during the course of their audit. Clearly, there will be losses
incurred from these operational deficiencies. However, the extent and size of the losses cannot be
determined at this time.
45.   Information on foreign exchange positions was not available because of the bank's unreliable MIS.
Thus, it is not possible to determine whether the bank has a significant exposure resulting from uncovered
positions in foreign currency. In practice, activities in foreign currency are limited to deposit-taking on the
liability side and cash, bank placements, and nostro accounts on the asset side of the balance sheet. Foreign
currency amounts in excess of $1.5 million must be sold to the Banco de Cabo Verde. Foreign currency
loans, borrowings, and off-balance sheet activities are not evident. Nonetheless, the inability of
management to provide the requested information demonstrates that the management of foreign exchange
risk must be strengthened.
46.    The investment portfolio is limited to Government bonds and a small equity participation (9% in
Garantia). The Government bonds, together with accrued interest, were given to the bank retroactively in
accordance with a protocol executed at the time of the bank's inception. The bonds represent the payment of
Government guarantees on loans to state-owned enterprises, i.e., an asset-to-asset swap. The bonds are
amortizing and range in maturity from 5 years to 30 years at tax-free interest rates of 5% to 10%.
47.   Fixed assets were transferred from the Banco de Cabo Verde at book value. However, there is no
idependent valuation of the fixed assets. Management states that the values assigned to some classes of
assets are questionable. The auditors report a need to take a complete inventory of assets and determine
realistic carrying values.



61                                      ANNEX5
Page 11 of 14
48.    Earings. Eamings are poor. The provisional results for 1994 reflect a lack of core earins
needed to sustain the bank's future growth and viability. For the year ended, net profits were only 114
million escudos, or a return on assets of .56%. However, 112 million escudos of this amount is attributed to
net extraordinary gains. Operating profits were only 2 million escudos, or .01% of total assets. Tbese
amounts are provisional and do not reflect the potentially significant losses likely to be incurred fromn
opmerational deficiencies and a prudent classification and provisioning of loan risks. Additionally, the bank
has not accrued its potential tax liabilities for 1993 and 1994 (because of its ownership by the State, the
bank's tax status has not yet been decided) and the bank has potential unfunded pension liabilities which
could result in additional expense. These uncertainties, when resolved, are likely to worsen the bank's
provisional 1994 results and throw it into a loss position.
49.    Several factors contribute to the bank's poor 1994 earnings. First, only 60% of the bank's assets
are invested in earning assets. Nearly one-third of total assets are in cash and due from banks
(correspondant banks and the BCV) while the bank's loan to deposit ratio is only 28%. Interest income for
1994 was only 5.14% of total assets--nearly 250 basis points less than Calxa Economica. Although its cost
of funds was similar to Caixa Economica, its yield on earning assets was more than 300 basis points less.
For 1994, its yield on loans, before provisions, was 9.49% and for investments, 8.2 1%. Provision expense
was 1.65%oftotal assets.
50.    High cost (12%) emigrant deposits also contribute to the poor results. These deposits, aggregating
more than 4 billion escudos, cannot be invested profitably. In fact, given the bank's average yield on loans
during 1994 (9.49%/O), the bank has a negative spread and is losing money on these deposits. Given the
existing investment climate and interest rate levels, it is in the bank's interest, if not the Government's, to
discourage the taking of these deposits.
51.   Non-interest expenses are 2.89% of total assets. This percentage is not unreasonably high, nor is it
as significant as the factors discussed above. Nonetheless, cost cutting measures to reduce excessive
staffing and to close unprofitable branches should be considered as part of a package of measures to cut
costs and enhance revenues.
52.   If the Banco Comercial do Atlantico is to be restored to health, a strong, sound earnings stream
from core activities must be developed. This means that more assets must be placed in earning assets,
particularly higher-yielding, properly priced, loans. Banks traditionally maintain 85% or more of their
assets in earning assets and loan to deposit ratios around 65%. However, given the significant managerial
and operational weaknesses in the bank's lending activities, it may not be prudent to expand any further in
the loan area until all problems have been resolved and strong lending management, policies, and controls
are in place. Alternative investments are limited, mostly treasury bills and bank placements. Even tmough
the yields may be less than desired on these instruments, as compared to loan yields, it is better than having
money lay idle not earning interest at all. If funds can be properly employed, it is likely that the bank's
earnings can be improved. Nonetheless, without sound growth in the loan portfolio and the higher yields
available on loans, the bank's earnings are likely to remain depressed.
53.    Capital Adequacy. Capital is inadequate. Given the bank's many problems, the uncertainty
surrounding its financial condition and the adequacy of loan loss provisions, the high cost of restructuring,
and the lack of core earnings, the capital of the bank can only be viewed as insufficient to provide the
needed cushion for the losses which will be incurred. At year end, the bank's book capital was only 3.5% of
total assets. However, because of the large amount of lower risk assets such as cash, due from banks, and
investments, the bank's capital was calculated at 7.75% on a risk-weighted assets basis. Obviously, this
ratio would quickly change if the bank began to redirect its activities to the lending area, thus changing its



62                                    ANNEX5
Page 12 of 14
mix of assets. The Government, recognizing the need for capital, placed an additional 250 million escudos
in the bank in June 1995. Another 250 million escudos is planned later in the year. Notwithstanding, until
the bank's hemoraghing can be contained and problems resolved, the adequacy of capital will be in doubt.
54.   Liquidity, Asset and Liability Management. The bank is excessively liquid. Funding for the
bank's activities is primarily provided through deposits, split evenly between demand and time deposits, and
including the high cost emigrant deposits discussed above. The excessive liquidity and the negative spread
on emigrant deposits are examples of poor asset and liability management practices which contribute to the
uninvested cash and idle balances in foreign bank accounts. The bank's management information systems
bank's unsatisfactory earnings. Cash management practices are also weak as the bank holds excessive do
not permit it to adequately monitor exposure to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. Clearly, the
whole area of liquidity and asset and liability management is in need of significant strengthening.
55.   Internal Control and Internal Audit Activities. Internal controls are poor. The auditors report
cited numerous weaknesses in the bank's internal administrative and accounting controls--some significant.
Because of these weaknesses, the bank is vulnerable to fraud and embezzlement, as well as to operational
losses. While the backlog in data processing (reported to be as much as one year) is responsible for many
problems, there is no reasonable excuse for not performing regular reconcilements of accounts,
safeguarding the bank's physical assets, making sure of a person's identity when cashing a check, keeping
an inventory of checks and payment orders, etc. The lack of adequate internal controls is indicative of a
sloppy operation and poor management.
56.   The internal audit function is unsatisfactory. Despite its 366 employees, the bank has assigned only
one person to internal audit. For all intents and purposes, the internal audit function does not exist. This
area needs immediate attention as the weaknesses in internal control make the bank extremely vulnerable to
losses that could otherwise be prevented. A strong internal audit function could serve to remedy many of
the bank's internal control weaknesses, ensure adherence to bank policy, and safeguard bank assets. The
internal audit function should report directly to a reconstituted and strengthened board of directors.
57.   Future Prospects. Future prospects are poor. Unless strong and timely actions are taken to resolve
the bank's many problems and restore it to health, the bank will continue to be a drain on government
resources and a constraint to economic growth and development in Cape Verde. If the bank were not the
predominant banking institution in Cape Verde, one might argue for its closure and liquidation. However,
the Government is committed to restoring the bank to health, as well as to privatizing it in the near term.
Recommended actions for achieving these goals are contained in the attached action plan for restructuring
the bank.
58.   Technical Assistance Needs. A complete managerial, operational, and financial restructuring is
required if the bank is to be restored to health. The project will support the restructuring of the bank by
providing monies for engaging a supporting management team of experienced tumaround managers, an
updated management information system, and staff training.
(b) Action Plan to Restructure the BCA
59.   The principle problems of the BCA may be summarized as follows: Poor management and banking
culture, Unsound lending practices, Poor earnings and unsound financial structure, Inadequate intemal
accounting and administrative controls, Inadequate supervision of branches and delays in inter-branch
clearings, Poorly trained staff, Significant operational deficiencies, Government policies in the financial
sector, and Inadequate management information systems.



63                                  ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 14
60.   The first step in any restructuring of the bank must be the replacement of several layers of the
existing management with a new, professional management team. This is necessary to ensure that the
change in management is deep enough to change the existing banking and management culture. The new
management must have a clear mandate, and the freedom, to undertake all measures, no matter how
painful, necessary to restore the bank to health. Management must be able to operate without interference
from the Govermnent and the bank must not be used as a tool of Govenunent policy, whether directly or
indirecdy. Without a new, independent, and professional management team, all other measures are likely to
fail. The GOCV has agreed to this suggestion and a search is now underway to recruit an independent
management with excellent banking skills. This can be achieved also through a twinning arrangement with
a foreign bank to ensure good governance and complete change in culture.
61.   The new management team must be capable of taking tough and unpopular actions, particularly
with regard to pursuing collections on overdue credits, educating borrowers in the necessity of providing
current and satisfactory financial information, reorganizing and simplifying the bank's management
structure, introducing accountability, closing or scaling back unprofitable branches, and dispensing with
the services of unsatisfactory or redundant staff. Given this requirement, the managers should come from
abroad and have no ties or allegiance to Cape Verde or its residents. It is important to recognize that the
immediate objective of this management team is the clean-up and turnaround of the bank with the goal of
preparing it for full or partial privatization within a period of two, but not more than three years. New
business development will not be a priority until the bank's privatization, the expiration of the management
contract, and the appointment of successor management.
62.   The new management team will be responsible for preparing the plan for restructuring the bank.
The components should include the following measures:
-  strengthened governance by the board of directors, to include closer supervision of the bank's activities
through participation in standing committees (e.g., for audit, credit, etc.), more frequent meetings,
review of monthly management reports, status reports from management, etc.;
-  reorganization and simplification of the management and organizational structure with the intent of
eliminating duplication, enhancing lines of authority, better defining duties, responsibilities, and
accountability, improving communications, and strengthening decision-making;
-  automation of all major banking activities, with a particular emphasis on better integrating the branch
network and eliminating float between branches;
*  development of an effective and timely management information system so that management can make
decisions on an informed basis;
* strengthened internal accounting and administrative controls, including timely reconcilements of all
accounts and the write-off of stale reconciling items, unallocated account differences, and
undocumented suspense items;
*  introduction of cost accounting, profit centers, and transfer pricing with the objectives of better
defining costs so that unprofitable activities can be discontinued, scaled back, or improved, products
and services appropriately priced, and performance accurately measured and rewarded;
rationalization of staff and branches with the intent of optimizing efficiency and profitability. Banking
services can be provided in outlying areas in ways other than brick and mortar branches;
*  accrual of estimated corporate income tax liability for 1993, 1994, and 1995. Although the fiscal status
of the bank has not yet been determined, it is likely that taxes will have to be paid. Anticipating this
eventuality is prudent. Profits may be overstated in the amount of taxes which will be due and payable;
*  resolution of responsibility for unfunded pension liabilities resulting from the transfer of employees
from the central bank. An actuarial assessment should also be made of the bank's known pension
responsibilities to ensure that reserves are adequate;



64                                  ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 14
strengthened lending practices to include better assessment of a borrower's ability to repay, better
monitoring through current and satisfactory financial information obtained throughout the life of the
loan, timely collection activities, closer supervision of branch lending activities, strengthened portfolio
management, and prudent recognition and provisioning of losses;
*  establishment of workout units and a department to carry out independent loan review on a continuous
basis;
*  implementation of formalized planning to include the formulation of a strategic plan, operating plan,
financial plan, and capital plan. The strategic planning process should involve management and staff at
* various levels of the organization and, when completed, major goals and objectives should be
adequately communicated to all staff;
* modification, as necessary, of written policies and procedures to ensure they are reasonable, complete,
and provide prudent guidance for management and staff within which they can be expected to operate.
Non-adherence to policy, except when a pre-established approval process for exceptions is followed,
should be grounds for disciplinary action and, possibly, dismissal;
*  reorganization of customer services, with a particular emphasis on eliminating heavy lobby traffic and
long waiting lines;
*  development and implementation of a comprehensive training program for staff. The training should
emphasize not only banking skills, but also a customer service orientation;
* an adequately staffed and strengthened internal audit function, reporting directly to the board of
directors and its designated Audit Committee;
*  development and grooming of a successor management;
*  a privatization strategy to be implemented when the bank is restored to health but, in no event, later
than three years.
63.   Additional financial resources may be necessary to offset loan and operational losses, maintain
adoquate capitalization, and finance restructuring activities. Given the absence of adequate information
regarding the bank's loan portfolio and financial condition, it is difficult to estimate the amount of resources
which will be required. However, the amount is likely to exceed the CVE 500 million in additional capital
to be placed in the bank during 1995.
64.   An alternative approach to dealing with the Banco Comercial do Atdantico is to minimalize it by
curtailing its growth, hiving off certain activities and branches through sales to new banks or branches as a
condition of entry, and supporting the growth and development of the better managed Caixa Economica de
Cabo Verde. The principle obstacle to this approach is that existing institutions and new mnarket entrants
alike will resist taking over problems that may affect the condition and operations of their own
organizations.
65.   Further to the BCA technical problems which can be addressed through this technical assistance
project, there is a need for the GOCV to review some of the policies affecting the financial sector. These
are for example,: (i) policies on emigrant deposits which forced commercial banks to paying higher rates
than on resident deposits (with the GOCV paying for additional premium) while lending opportunities
remained very limited; and (ii) interference of the GOCV in the financial sector by forcing banks to make
loans to state-owned enterprises. This issues are being addressed in this project through the letter of
development policy in which the GOCV has committed: (a) to liberalize interest rates on deposits and loans
before the end of 1996 and to let banks compete for business based on market conditions; and by pursuing
the privatizaion of public enterprises and banks so that new private institutions can be free to deal amongst
themselves only on pure conmmercial terms.



65
ANNEX6
Page 1 of 12
CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
ECONOMIC COST-BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT
Background
1.    Economic analysis of private-sector support projects in general causes some problems,
particularly when those projects aim to induce foreign private-sector investment. In recent Bank
SARs one finds a number of different approaches:
(a)    value of increased profit of private enterprises (benefit) attributed to project-financed
costs;
(b)   taxes payable in absence of tax holidays taken as "lowest bound" of benefits, and
attributed to project-financed costs;
(c)    surplus of benefits over costs of employed labor and earnings of economic processing zone
(as an enterprise) taken as benefits, and attributed to project costs;
(d)    expected capital investment of overseas entrepreneurs counted as a cost on the same basis
as project costs, and their profits included in benefits.
2.    The problem is essenfially one of deciding what costs, and what benefits can fairly be
attributable to the project. It really does not make sense to count private profits resulting from a
project on the benefits side when the private capital employed is not counted on the costs side
(example (a) above). The issue of ownership of costs and benefits also takes on a particular
importance when the costs are borne by foreign entrepreneurs, and the benefits accrue to those
same entrepreneurs on the clear ustanin that they may be freely remitted outside the host
country. There is also an intuitive reasonableness of treating taxes as project benefits in these
circumstances, instead of the conventional practice of treating them as internal transfers.
3.    The proposed Cape Verde project raises all of these issues. Its two main components are
to:
(a)    develop  export-oriented  manufcturing  and  infornation-technology-based  service
industries by attacting foreign investment and know-how by, among other things, developing an
Export Promotion Zone (EPZ);
(b)    develop the tourism sector, again primarily through foreign investment, and by, among
other things, developing infiastructure in potential towuist hotel locations..
4.    There is also a component to increase the efficiency of the financial sector, but this is
essentially a means to the end of achieving success in the other two main components. The
expenditurs on this sector are therefore assigned to the other sub-projects.
5.    The approach taken in this case was to accept that ownership of costs and beefits
mattered, and to confine the analysis to costs and benefits to "Cape Verde Inc." - the combination
of the Government and residents of Cape Verde. Foreignwed enterprises themselves, and their
foreign owners are not considered to be part of Cape Verde Inc. The justification for this is that the
decision that is faced by the Government, and its partner the Bank, is whether to use the scarce



66
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 12
resources available to Cape Verde (including those it can borrow from IDA) to achieve future
benefits for the Government and people of Cape Verde. The issues of whether another corporation,
"Footloose Investors Inc." is behaving rationally in deciding where and how to use its own
investment resources to eam profits for itself, and whether that corporation is earning retums on its
capital of 0.5% or 50%/0, are not its direct concem. They are important in an indirect way, because
if the projects of Footloose Investors Inc. are not financially viable, Cape Verde Inc.'s project will
eventually fail. But the two lots of resources are not fungible, and the investing firms' internal
profitability calculations or criteria are not available to the Bank or the Govemment.
6.     The main benefit sought by the Goverrment is, without a shadow of doubt, local
employment at a wage that yields more than the opportunity cost of labor. The second benefit is
more fiscal resources (that the project should be at worst fiscally neutral might be regarded as a
precondition). Making the EPZ or the tourist zone into a directly profitable piece of public
entrepreneurship probably takes third place, way behind the other two aims. There are plenty of
circumstances in which a loss-making EPZ management corporation could be justified.
7.     Detemination of the opportunity cost of labor in Cape Verde is a matter of judgement.
Per-capita GDP is estimated at $800, and much of the population lives in even greater poverty than
this figure implies. Twenty-three percent of the working-age population is officially classified as
"unemployed". The fall-back occupation of most of the poor is very low-income subsistence
agriculture (because of very low rainfall, barren stony soils and arable land scarcity). It is therefore
arguable that the true opportunity-cost of labor is below $800. To err on the side of caution,
however, it was taken as $1,000. The current wage of unskilled formal-sector labor is $1,500,
and average wages in new foreign-owned enterprises were taken as $1,600 (since they include a
proportion of skilled labor).
8.    It is conventional in economic evaluations to ignore second-round effects, since these are
notoriously susceptible to exaggeration in order to pump up the ERR, and since the transactions
involved can conservatively be expected to take place at, or close to, the opportunity costs of the
factors involved. In the case of overseas direct investment, however, second-round employment
effects are also an important part of the beneficiary's objective, and as studies generally agree that
direct overseas investment generates considerably more employment indirectly than directly, it was
felt justifiable to take into account a conservative estimate of the employment benefits arising from
this. In the manufacturing component, one indirectly generated job was taken into account for
every directly-generated job, at a lower average wage rate of $1,280 (many of these jobs will be in
the informal sector). In the tourism component, a lower coefficient of half an indirectly-generated
job per directly-generated job was used.
9.    The other main benefits are revenues accruing to Government and public agencies from
rents and taxes. In cost-benefit analyses that are based on a modified enterprise profitabilty
calculation, these are ignored as transfer payments. In the Cape Verde Inc. approach they have to
be included, because they are payments from non-stakeholders in Cape Verde Inc. to stakeholders,
whereas the profits of the foreign-owned enterprises should be ignored as these are transfers
between non-stakeholders in Cape Verde Inc. Profit to owners of local enterprises providing
indirectly-generated employment should theoretically be included, but no safe estimate could be
made of these and they were ignored in the calculations. The overall approach was to see whether,



67
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 12
on very conservative assumptions, the investments make sense for Cape Verde Inc. No shadow-
price was put on foreign exchange, as the Cape-Verde Escudo is effectively convertible.
First Component: Export-oriented Manufacturing Promotion
10.   For the first sub-project, the initial costs taken into account were the costs of PROMEX
(promotion agency) in support of this activity, the costs of the EPZ, including factory shells, a
share (50%/0) of overall anagme  costs, and a share (67%) of the costs of the financial sector
support in the project. Also included was $1.82 m2 of EPZ start-up costs and factory-shell
constuction undertaken on grant terms by the European Union and Luxembourg. These were
phased over four years. The allocation of the financial sector component cost between the
manYufacturing and tourism sub-projects is based on the importance of each in the total credit.
11.   The benefits side depends on a prediction of employment generation made by an
experienced consultancy group specialising in enterprise relocation. Their base case prediction was
that the project would directly create 3,740 jobs over four years. However, the promotional effbrts
of the Government and PROMEX created 800 jobs based on foreign direct investment in 1992-94,
so it is not legitimate to attibute all new employment in this sector to the project. To take this into
account, the number of directly created jobs attributed to the project has been reduced to 2,740.
Tese jobs are phased in over four years like the investment, but with a one-year lag. An equal
number of indirectly-generated jobs is phased in at the same time, at the same opportunity cost of
$1000 per year. A fiuther cost, assumed to continue over the full life of the project, is an allowance
of $200,000 per year for management of the EPZ, to be bome by the Govermnent of Cape-Verde.
12.   The labor benefits are the wages received by the diredy and indirectly-created jobs,
costed at $1,600 for the directly-generated jobs and $1,280 for those indirectly generated (the
tables show simply net benefit; i.e. wages less opportunity-cost). Based on PROMEX estimates,
rents are taken at $20 per square meter for pr-constructed factory-shells, and $2 per square meter
for factories built by entrepreneurs for their own occupation. Direct taxes only become payable
after the end of a ten-year tax holiday, at flat rates of 15% on overall profits plus 15% on any
distributed profits. These have been estimated very conservatively, with entrepreneurs being
assumed to have annual taxable income equivalent to only 7.5% of their initial investment, and to
pay distributed-profits tax on only half of this. There is undoubtedly a substantil further benefit
from indirect taxe and import duties, but this hard to  tumate and has been ignored. Taxes paid
on labor incomes are ignored here (as transfers between stakeholders in Cape Verde Inc.), but have
to be taken into account in the fiscal impad analysis (not covered here), where they are a
significant contributor.
13.   The opportunity-cost of capital (real cost) was taken as 12%, which may be considered as
a conservative yardstick.
14.   On this basis, the export-oriented manu icmonent has a positive NPV of
S7.56m (on cumulative project costs of S9m, including contributions from other donors), and an
iotemal rate of return of 31% over a project life of 15 years. This positive impact derives
prmminanly from the "surplus" accruing to directlyeated employment.



68
PFa 4 of 12
15.   Sensitivity analyses have been carried out to identify the efficts of variancs f   tho
ba-case on the economic return of the private sector component. The biet ri  is a Dxt  in
job-creation, and the swiching value for this variable at which the NPV booomes  -a is 1,430
jobs.
16.   What wwld happen if private investors' capital and profits wore inchlded? Euinoly tis
wowld tansfrm the cost-benefit analysis into a conventional one based on overall profitbility
_gnorin non-Caps-Verde ownership of a large part of benefits and costs. Inv1tr' Coa  ar nt
blown in any detail, but it is easy to do an order of magnitude calculation. If iveto ' post-tax
rebur  exceed the 12% discount rate, but fall short of 29% (the most likely case), NPV goes up
substantially (if irrelevantly), while ERR faIls slightly.



COST4UNEGFIT ANALYUS FRN THE MANJWFMATURU    SECTOR
(1965 Lm  U)
Fin.  Project      BENEFITS            Drec   Idrect             Tot net  Taxes on
projct  rest    mgtL   EPZ   Ret to  Tax. after Inrefn.  kcernm.           cosdlben  incr.(DI)
Yew'  co st share  share mg!!L   EPZ   10 years  wages   waes                    for year   wag"
12.50%
1    -2.515  .0.735  *0.061  -0.060                                             -3.371      0
2    -1.095  -0.735  -0.061  -0.060  0.147           0.548    0.256             -1.001     0.100
3    -1.0S5  -0.735  -0.061  0.100  0.300            1.096    0.511             -0.084     0.201
4    -1.0S5  -0.735  *0.061  -0.150  0.447           1.644    0.767              0.817    0.3014
5                           0.150  0.447             1.644    0.767              2.708    0.3014
6                           0.150   0.447            1.644    0.767              2.708    0.3014
7                          -0.150  0.447             1.644    0.767              2.708    0.3014
8                          -0.150  0.447             1.644    0.767              2.708    0.3014
9                          -0.150  0.447             1.644    0.767              2.708    0.3014
10                         -0.150  0.447              1.644    0.767             2.708     0.3014
11                         -0.150  0.447    0.187    1.644    0.767              2.895     0.3014
12                         -0.150  0.447    0.374    1.644    0.767              3.082     0.3014
13                          0.150  0.447    0.561    1.644    0.767              3.269     0.3014
14                         -0.150  0.447    0.561    1.644    0.767              3.269     0.3014
15                         -0.150   1.526    0.561    1.644    0.767             4.348     0.3014
-5.800  -2.940  -0.245 -2.020  6.888    2.244   21.372   9.974  NPV(12%)   7.563
IRR      0.309
i-nX
0



70
ANNEX6
Page 6 of 12
Second Component: Tourism Promotion
17.   The tourism development plan aims to move from 1,100 hotel roams, 19,000 visitors, and
an average stay of six days in 1993 to 4,500 rooms, 62,000 visitors and an average stay of eight
days in 1999. The cost-benefit analysis is based on a more modest target of 750 new rooms , and
30,000 extra tourists by 1999, with average stay rising to eight days. Expendie per tourist-day
is estimated at $80 per head, of which $40 fbr the room, $20 for other in-hotel expenses, and $20
for out-of-hotel expenses. Cost of construction is $50,000 per room, of which 30% is for local
labor. Land for hotel construction is sold to the entrepreneurs at a margin over opportunity cost
(which is almost neglegible) of $20 per square meter. Direct job creation is one per room, and
indirect job creation 50% of direct (very conservative assumptions). Wages and opportunity-costs
are the same as in the manufacturing sector evaluation. A wide range of taxes is applicable on the
tourist sector receipts: rental tax, tourist tax, consumption tax and profits tax. Rental and profits
taxes have tax-holidays (5 years 100%, 10 years 50%/6), and receipts have been lagged in all cases.
Profits taxes were assumed to be paid on profits equivalent to only 7.5% of gross investment costs.
18.   The analysis yields a positive NPV of $8.31 million at 12% discount rate, and has an ERR
of 72%. The positive return again derives largely from the increment in earnings, but in this case
incremental taxes paid by non-stakeholders in Cape Verde Inc. also play a large part. This suggests
that there is scope to reduce the tax burden on the idustry if this is thought to be decisive i
achieving the targeted increases in tourist activity. The two principal risks are that investors will
not be attated, and that the desired tourist inflow will not materialise.
SensiHvity
19.   Sensitivity analyses were also camed out for the tounsm sub-cmponent. Again, the main
risks are shortfalls in hotel construction and number of tourists. Assuming that these two variables
remain in the same ratio, the switching point at which NPV becomes zero is 23% of the base level,
i.e., 175 new rooms, and 7000 additional tourists.
Combined lst and 2nd Components
20.   For the project as a whole, including the components for which benefits were not
quantified, the NPV and the ERR become S14.9 million and 370, respectively.



COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS FOR THE TOURISM SECTOR
(1995 USSmillion)
Total   Taxes
BENEFITS                                Increm.                         net     on              Other    Tax
Fin.   Proj.                        Consump.         wages  Direct Indirect         cost/  incr.  Tax coll.  tax      coil. !Other    Net
Year Project GCV/dono  rest.   mgt.  Land  Rental  Tourist  & imp.  Profits   on    Incr.  Incr.             benef.  (D+i)   costs.  (in CBA)  other  fiscal  budget
costs   share  share   sale   tax       tax     tax    tax   constr. wages wages            for year wages  icr.wages +land sale  tax  Otolays  impact
12.50%   -25%             -25%
1  -0.55667  -0.085   -0.275  -0.061  0.113                                                                -0.865    0        0      0.000   0.000 | -0.085  -0.085
2  -0.55667  -0.085   -0.275  -0.061  0.113                                  0.820                         .0.044   0.103   -0.026    0.113   -0.028  -0.085   0.077
3  -0.27833  -0.0685  -0.275  -0.061  0.113                                  0.820  0.113  0.053           0.399   0.123   -0.031    0.113   -0.028  4.085   0.092
4  -0.27833           -0.275  -0.061  0.113          0.216    0.300          0.820  0.338  0.158            1.330   0.164   -0.041    0.113   -0.028  0.000   0.208
5                                                    0.432    0.600                 0.450  0.210            1.692   0.083   -0.021    0.629   -0.157  0.000   0.533
6                                            0.047   0.432    0.600                 0.450  0.210            1.739   0.083   -0.021    1.032   -0.258  0.000   0 336
7                                            0.063   0.432    0.600   0.141         0.450  0.210            1.895   0.083   -0.021    1.079   -0.270  0.000   C 371
8                                            0.094   0.432    0.600   0.281         0.450  0.210           2.067   0.083   -0.021    1.235   -0.309  0.000   C )88
9                                            0.188   0.432    0.600   0.422         0.450  0.210           2.301   0.083   -0.021    1.407   -0.352  0.000   1 117
10                                           0.188   0.432    0.600   0.563         0.450  0.210            2.442   0.083   -0.021    1.6541   -0.410  0.000   1 293
11                                           0.188   0.432    0.600   0.563          0.450  0.210           2.442   0.083   -0.021    1.782   -0 446  0.000   1 398
12                                           0.188   0.432    0.600   0.563          0.450  0.210           2.442   0.083   -0.021    1.782   -0.446  0.000   1.398
13                                           0.188   0.432    0.600   0.563          0.450  0.210           2.442   0.083   .0.021    1.782   -0.446  0.000   1.398
14                                           0.188   0.432    0.600   0.563          0.450  0.210           2.442   0 083   -0.021    1.782   -0.446  0.000   1.398
15                                           0.188   0.432    0.600   0.563          0.450  0.210           2.442   0.083   -0.021    1.782   -0.446  0.000   1.398
-1.67    -0.264   -1.098  -0.245  0.460  1.616   4.968    6.900   4.219   2.461   5.400  2.520 NPV(12%) 9.306                               NPV(12%  S4.14
________   _______   _______________   ~IR R  0.723   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
O0  z
ON 
(02x
a-
0
I-



OVERALL FISCAIJUDGETARY IMPACT
COMBINED COST-BENEFIT
YR           TOURIS  OTHER TOTAL                                                    Disb.                   IDA
M     ___                       Net                        Total  Repay  Outat.  Interest   disb.                               Re-    Total
Impact               IDA    with  sched. balance Payable  Smillion        Interest  Psj ents  payments  IDA
1   -0.865   -3.371   -0.330  -4.566    Year Tourism       Total Service  IDA      -I      -I    0.75%     11.8   Yr.1   Yr. 2   Yr. 3  Yr. 4         Service
2   -0.044   -1.001   -0.330  -1.375      1   -0.085        -0.145 -0.022  -0.167        -1.000  -0.008           -0.022                      0.000   -0.022
3   0.399   -0.084   -0.330  -0.015       2    0.077        0.092  -0.044   0.048        -1.000  -0.008           -0.022  -0.022              0.000   -0.044
4    1.330    0.S17   -0.330   1.817      3    0.092        0.243  -0.066  0.176         -1.000  -0.008           -0.022  -0.022  -0.022      0.000   -0.066
5    1.692    2.708           4.400       4    0.208        0.434  -0.089  0.345         -1.000  -0.008           -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022   0.000   -0.089
6    1.739    2.708           4.447       5    0.533        0.759  -0.089  0.671         -1.000  -0.008          -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  0.000   -0.089
7    1.895    2.708           4.603       6    0.836        1.062  -0.089  0.973         -1.000  -0.008           -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022   0.000   -0.089
8   2.067    2.708            4.775       7    0.871        1.097  -0.089  1.009         -1.000  -0.008          -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  0.000   -0.089   t
9   2.301    2.708            5.009       8    0.988       1214  -0.089   1.126         -1.000  -0.008          -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  0.000   -0.089
10   2.442    2.708           5.150       9    1.117         1.343  -0.089   1.255       -1.000  -0.008           -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  0.000   -0.089
1    2.442    2.895           5.337      10   1.293          1.519  -0.089  1.430        -1.000  -0.008           -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  0.000   -0.089
12   2.442    3.082           5.524      1 1   1.398         1.765  -0.324   1.441  0.020  -0.980  -0.007         -0.022  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  -0.236   -0.324
13   2.442    3.269           5.711      12   1.398          1.905  -0.323   1.582   0.020  -0.960  -0.007       -0.021  -0.022  -0.022 -0.022  -0.236   -0.323
14   2.442    3.269           5.711      13   1.398         2.045  -0.322   1.723  0.020  -0.940  -0.007          -0.021  -0.021  -0.022 -0.022  -0.236   -0.322
15   2.442    4.348           6.790      14   1.398         2.045  -0.320   1.725   0.020  -0.920  -0.007         -0.020  -0.021  -0.021 -0.022  -0.236   -0.320
Overall project return:           37%      15   1.398         2.045  40.318   1.727   0.020  -0.900  -0.007        -0.020  -0.020  -0.021 .0.021  -0.236   -0.318
NPV (12%)    S14.87                  NPV   5.579          4.815  -0.900
0
It-



73
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 12
Are these results reasonable?
21.   The Cape Verde Incorporated approach has, in this case, given a very high rate of reurn,
that will inevitably give rise to some scepticism. It is true that a conventional approach that
includ  investors' capital and profits, and calculated overall value-addd modified by the shadow-
price of labor would yield very much lower NPVs and rates of return, but in fact it can fairly
easily be shown that these would simply be the sum, in the case of the NPV, and the weighted
average in the case of the ERR of the high rate of return for Cape-Verde Inc. and the lower rate of
return that the investors would be assumed (without any real evidence) to earn on their capital. An
example of this is given above in the sensitivity analysis in the manurin industry component.
The fact that this averaged result is lower deflects critical scrutiny, but does not make it any more
accurate. Indeed, it is probably less accurate. Moreover, it yields a result that is a far less useful as
a criterion of how Cape-Verde should use the resources it controls, or as an indicator of the
rewards to success in this enterprise.
22.   In fact, these high returns are a fair indicator of the rwards a poor, low-income country
can reap by successfully attracting foreign investment. The critical fictor is the probability or
plausibility of success. The cost-benefit of expending a worm to catch a large fish is very high, but
the ex-ante calculation is of little value unless the probability of success is taken into account. In
general, the less plausible (and hence the lower the cost) of a government's efforts to attract a given
quantity of overseas investmt, the higher will be the apparet ex-ante rate of return. What
matters far more is the coherence and plausibility of the promotion activities in question. At the
same time, a rather important conclusion is that even a promotion campaign that might be seen as
rather unsuccessful (as represented by the lower limits of the sensitivity analyses) can produce very
attractive nationally-owned returns - attractive enough to justify very considerable additional
expenditures if initial results fall short of expectations.



74
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 12
Economic Benefits of
Establishing an Industrial Park (IP)/Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in Mindelo
23.   The establishment of an industrial park (IP)/export processing zone (EPZ) in Mindelo,
offers substantive economic benefits which are presented below. These include the creation of
direct and indirect employment, improvement in the balance of trade, foreign exchange earnings
and transfer of technology.
Direct and Indirect Employment
24.   On the basis of a study (Market Analysis and Demand Forecast), carried out by a
consulting group recruited by the GOCV, the Services Group, on the investment potential in the
export processing zone (EPZ) in Mindelo the following three scenarios for the take-up rate and
direct employment in the EPZ are possible:
(i) the base scenario assumes take-up of under-roof space of 41,140 m2 with 3,740
employees after 4 years;
(ii) the optimistic scenario assumes take-up of under-roof space of 70,400 m2 after 4
years. At the end of this period, the number of people employed at the IP/EPZ
will stand at 6,400;
(iii) the pessimistic scenario is based on a take-up at 24,640 m2 and 2,240 people
employed at the IP/EPZ after 4 years.
25.   Besides direct employment, foreign inward investment also generates indirect job creation
as a result of subcontracting and the need for services (maintenance, transportation, cleaning, etc.)
The ratio between direct and indirect job creation is difficult to stimulate beforehand. It is
generally accepted that this multiplier varies between 3 and 5 indirect jobs for each direct job
created. A multiplier of 4 is used in making the projections for the EPZ in Mindelo.
26.   On the basis of the above assumptions, the possible employment creation in the EPZ , over
a 4 year period, is as follows:
Optinistic             Base            Pessinustic
Scenario             Scenario          Scenario
Direct Employment           6,400               3,740               2,240
Indirect Employment        25,600              14,960               8,960
Total        32,000               18,700              11,200
The Balance of Trade
27.   Cape Verde's annual economic statistics show that the import coverage ratio has ranged
between 3 and 7% in the years 1983 to 1992 and that the deficit on the trade balance over the
same period was of ECV 6,800 million to ECV 8,800 million.



75
ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 12
28.   In order to make an estimate of the potential contribution of the EPZ to the balance of
trade, Price Waterhouse/Plant Location has calculated the import to export ratio of the Mauritan
EPZ for the period 1988 to 1991 Intenational (Establishment of Industrial Parks and Export-
Processing Zones - Constraints and Perspectives - Cape Verde - Mindelo, Plant Location
International, Price Waterhouse, July 1994). This ratio is obtained by dividing the total value of
imports by the total value of exports. The ratio has varied between 0.58 and 0.83 which means
that for each US$ 100 of export from the EPZ, US$ 58 to 83 of import were required. The lower
this ratio the more favorable the contribution to the balance of trade.
29.   In the absence of a better yardstick, one can use this as a proxy to esfimate the impact of
the IP/EPZ's in Cape Verde on the balance of trade. lt is however difficult to predict what the
import to export ratio and export per employee will be for the IP/EPZ in Cape Verde. This will
largely be influenced by the nature of the activities locating in the IP/EPZ and the success in
commercializing the IP/EPZ.
30.   Estimates of the impact the IP/EPZ can have is presented in the following tables. Three
scenarios have been used to estimate the ratio of exports per employee. (In 1991, the Mauritius
EPZ realized total exports of US$600 million, while employment in the EPZ peaked at about
90,000. Exports per employee were therefore of US$6,700.) The base case assumes USS5,000 of
exports per employee, the optimistic scenario is based on USS 7,000 of exports per employee,
while the pessimistic scenario is calculated using US$3,000 per employee.
31.   Regarding direct employment at the IP/EPZ, the three scenarios as defined in the Market
Analysis and Demand Forecast study have been used (optimistic scenario 6,400 employees, base
case 3,740 employees, pessimnistic scenario 2,240 employees).
32.   The table below presents the impact on the trade balance of exports originating from the
IP/EPZ on the basis of an import to export ratio of 80%. Given a deficit on the trade balance
ranging from ECV 6,800 million to ECV 8,800 million in the period 1983 to 1992, these exports
would result in a reduction of the deficit ranging between 1.5 and 11 percent.
Net Contribution to Trade Balance
Import to Export Ratio = 0.80
(in '000)
Exports per       Pessimic                         Optimistic
Employee          Scenario        Base Case        Scenario
(in US$)         (in ECV)         (in ECV)        (in ECV)
3              115,584          192,984         330,240
5             192,640           321,640         550,400
7             269,696           450,296         770,560



76
ANNEX6
Page 12 of 12
33.   The following table shows the impact on the balance of trade of exports originating from
the export processing zone, with an import to export ratio of 50%. Given a deficit on the trade
balance ranging from ECV 6,800 million to ECV 8,800 million in the period 1983 to 1992, these
exports would result in a reduction of the deficit ranging between 3.0 and 28 percent.
Net Contribution to Trade Balance
Import to Export Ratio = 0.50
(in '000)
Exports per     Pessimistic                      Optimistic
Employee        Scenario       Base Case         Scenario
(in US$)       (in ECV)        (in ECV)         (in ECV)
3           288,960         482,460          825,6000
5           481,600         804,100          1,376,000
7           674,240         1,125,740        1,926,400
Government Income/Foreign Exchange Earnings
34.   Establishing the IP/EPZ will have an impact on the budget as a result of the role of the
GOCV in terms of incentive programs, etc.
35.   Forign direct inward investment has considerable impact on a govermnent's budget.
Direct government income is generated through all forms of direct and indirect corporate taxation.
Indirect income is created by means of personal taxation and employee contributions to social
security, and reduced expenditure on unemployment benefits.
36.   The direct effect on the GOCV's budget will be limited as companies licensed to operate
under the Free Zone scheme are not liable to pay taxes on corporate profits and dividends, and are
exempt of paying tariffs and duties.
37.   Export oriented operations generate foreign currency reserves for the Banco de Cabo
Verde. According to the Cape Verde Free Zone Pre-feasibility Study creating 500 to 1,500 jobs in
export-oriented industries could generate US$1 to US$3 million of foreign exchange earnings.
Other benefits
38.   Important benefits of an intangible nature will be derived from the foreign investents
made in the export processing zone, such as the transfer of know-how and technology .
Furthrmore, benefits will result from the training that the enterprises will provide, both locally
and abroad, to workers and managers.



cape Verde
Cpm_y &Aft  Pi S    for Puvs Ser Develpmene
tp-i$ Man Accnta byCompcnwts - taCods
Prints Sector
Insttutonal support to PROMEX for tourism
inatiuonal support to                          activities
PROMEX for manufacturing                Support for
actMt                              the                    Improve
Support                 Implementatlon                the
Strengthening     for                     of a foreign    Support for  tourist                             Support to              Private
the      investment Strengthening    Investment     tourism    zone In    Developing an    Marine and  Strengthen    Video-    Sector
manufacturing  promoion   the tourism     strategy for   development   Sal   export-processing   Corporate   Domestic  Conferenc. Coordin.
depar        act icUvxes    department    tourism      activities   Island       zone         Registries  Enterprises  Activitis  Services
1. investent Costs
A. Chli Works
Consrbucin                                                                                             0.60              228            -                -     -
B. Goods
Equipment. Material, and Fumiure                         -            -            -           -                         0.02        0.02           -       0.08       0.07
C. Speait Sevices
1 Inteonl                                  -           -             -            0.11        0.08       -                  -        0.09        0.19       0.08       0.06
2. Naion                                 0.02          -             -               -        0.13                                                  -         -           -
SubtotalSpecladitSvke                      0.02          -             -            0.11        0.21        -                 -        0.09        0.19       0.08       0.06
D. Training
Abroad                                                  -             - -            -           -        -                 -        0.05           -
Local                                    0.05          -          0.03              -            -       -               041            -        0.34         -          -
Subtotal Training                          0.05          -          0.03               -           -        -              0.41        0.0        0.34                     -
E. Proxoonal Activiies                     0.02       0.34             -               -        0.44       -                  -        0.09
Total invextment Coats                       0.0       0.34          0.03            0.11        0.65    0.50               2.70        0.25        0.53       0.15       0.13
I1 Recurrnt Coost
A& Personnel
Salaris of contactual stff                 -           -                             -           -        -              0.04           -           -         -        0.20
Staff Travel                             0.03                                                                               -
Subtotal Personnel                         0.03          -             -               -           -        -              0.04           -           -         -        0.20
B. OM of Equipment, onsumable                -                                                 0.03       -               0.02          -         0.00         -        0.12
Total Recurrent Costs                        0.03          -             -               -        0.03       -               0.05                    0.00         -        0.33
Total BASEUNE COSTS                          0.11       0.34           0.03           0.11         0.68    0.60               2.76       0.26        0.63       0.16       046
Physical Contingencies                     0.01       0.04          0.00               -        0.07    0.06               0.30        0.02        0.01         -        0.01
Pnce Contingencies                         0.01       0.03          0.00            0.00        0.07    0.05               0.31        0.02        0.06      0.01        0.05
Total PROJECT COSTS                          0.13       OAO            0.03           0.11         0.81    0.61               3.36       0.29         0.60      0.16       0.61
Taxes                                                           -              -             -         -             -              -           -          -                -
Foreign Exchange                           0.03       025           0.01            0.11        0.36    0.36               1.67        0.22        0.21       0.16       0.17
' :>
Uq z:
X
_J
0
N)



Cape Verde
Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Development
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
Financial Sector
Improving the sector's macro infrastructure (BCV)
Strengthening the banking and Insurance
Implementing             Implementing                                              sectors
an       Reviewing       a                                                          Instituto
integrated    the legal   centralized   Strengthening Development  Banco              Nacional de  Insurance
economic and     and       credit-risk     BCV's          of      Comercial             Previdencia  Regulatory
financial   regulatory  information    supervisory    Financial    do       Caixa       Social   Commission    Project
date base   framework    system        function    Instruments  Atiantico Economica   (INPS)        (ISCV)    Preparation   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Clvil Works
Construction                                                   -                   -             -                -          -           -           -            -    2.78
B. Goods
Equipment, Material, and Furniture              0.29          -          0.08           0.15           -       0.80       0.40        0.15        0.02         0.09     2.45
C. Specialist Services
1. Intemational                                 0.01       0.10          0.06           0.10        0.12       0.50       0.11        0.08        0.13         0.72     2.73
2. National                                        -           -            -              -                      -          -            -          -             -    0.15
Subtotal Specialist Services                       0.01        0.10          0.06          0.10         0.12       0.50      0.11         0.08        0.13         0.72     2.88
D. Training
Abroad                                             -          -             -           0.05            -      0.06       0.05         0.16       0.04            -    0.41
Local                                              -          -             -              -           -       0.29       0.08         0.02       0.02            -     1.23
Subtotal Training                                     -           -             -          0.05            -       0.36      0.12         0.18        0.06            -    1.64
E. Promotional ActivIies                                    -                  -              -            -         -          -            -          -            -     0.88
Total Investment Costs                             0.30        0.10          0.14          0.30         0.12       1.66      0.63         0.40        0.20         0.81    10.63
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel
Salaries of contractual staff                      -           -            -              -            -          -         -            -           -         0.04    0.28
Staff Travel                                       -           -            -              -            -                                 --    0.03
Subtotal Personnel                                    -           -            -              -            -          -         -            -          -          0.04    0.31
B. O&M of Equipment, consumable                       -           -            -              -            -         --    0.17
Total Recurrent Costs                                 -                        -              -            -          -         -                       -          0.04    0.47
Total BASELINE COSTS                               0.30        0.10          0.14          0.30         0.12       1.66      0.63         0A0         0.20         0.84    11.10
Physical Contingencies                             0.01        0.01          0.00          0.01            -       0.10      0.03         0.02        0.00         0.01    0.75
Price Contingencles                                0.02        0.01         0.01           0.02         0.01       0.11      0.03         0.02       0.01          0.01    0.86
Total PROJECT COSTS                                0.33        0.11          0.16          0.33         0.13       1.a6      0.69         0.46        0.22         0.8K    12.71
Taxes                                                 -           -            -              -            -          -         -
Foreign Exchange                                   0.33        0.07         0.10           0.33         0.13       1.76      0.60         0.43        0.20         0.76    8.80
OQ Z:
0qi
1-h
t1)



79                           ANNEX 8
________              ________         ~~~~~Page  1    of    8
* 8tj1 t .2JIL11 
~~   L   ~~~~4u1~*
0W~I f,i                                 r
01,,'l~0  0 t                                    1 00  



OBJECIIVE 2:   FaEbtte the establbn_t and operations of foreign export-orieted esterprkes
Evautin Crteria:           C_autruci_n of factory shedh and traiig of worker.
Objectives                                              Major Activities                                 Performance Indicators
2.1 Provide physicel facilites for the establishment of foreign  2.1.1 Construct factory shells according to specifications of foreign   *   Complete construction of two factory
enterpriss                                           investors                                                       buildings provided by Luwmbourg in 1996
* Construct three new facwtory buildings no
later than December 1998
2.2 Develop stills of workers employed by ecport entaprises  2.22 Provide in-factory training of workers              *   Tuain 500 workers in 1996 and700 in 1997.
Increas proucty of workers by at kat
25% the second yar and at least 10  in
each subsequent year
2.3 Prvide high quality manament of the EPZ               2.3.1 Establish EPZ management company                      *   Company estalhedbefore December 31.
1996
2.3.2Assist in launching EPZ Management                    *   Managment copny flly operional
beore March 31, 1997
*   Degree of saifacin  of enterprises
operating in the EPZ with the serices
provided by the EPZ Mansgement Company
OBJECIIVE 3:   Promte the developmt of dte tourism sector
Evaluation Criteria:      Deveopm_t of hotel in tructure and ncease in the number of viors                                                                          OD
Objectives                                              Major Activities                                 Performance Indicators
3.1 Attract foreign investments in the tourism sector by supporting  3.1.1 Promote tourism potential among hotel chain investors  *   The number of hotel rooms of interraional
an institution specifically designed to promote tourism efforts  (a) design an investment promotion stategy              sadards (1,128 in 1993) ineases by at lest
(b) prepae documents to present tourism development zones      500 beds each yar sttng in 1997
(c) participate in workshops and trade shows              a
3.2 Incrase the number of tourists visiing Cape Verde each year   32.1 Conduct ctive tourism campaign in target markets  *   Number of touisls visitng Cape Verde
and increase length of stays of visitors                  (a) prepare and disseminate promotion materials on facilities  (19,000 in 1992) increase by 10,000 every
(b) participate in tourism fairs, pepective missions          yar starting in 1997
(c) organize visits to Cape Verde for tour opemors or tourism  *   The averg length of stay of tourists (5.9 days
professionals                                             in 1993) icreaes by 0.5 day per year staring
in 1996
3.3 Develop tourism sravices of very high qualty          3.3.1 Improve hotel services by on-the-job training of employees    *   Degree oftouist stisfation with services
provided by hotdel staff imprmves significantly
3.3.2 Establish and update on a regulr basis a dasification of  *   AD eiing hotels ae evaluaed and
hotls in line with intenaional norms                          caegorized befre Jmu 30, 1997.
*   Subsequently, the clasfication of all hotes is
reviewed annually before the sart of the touist
son
3.3.3 Establish and operate three tnurism offices (Santiago, Sal  a   The offc in Stiago is esablished befoe
ad Soo Vleente)                                               Deomber 31, 1996
*   The ffle in Sol is eahed bef6re Ju  30,     1 :
1997                                       o
*   Th offce in Soo Vcte is esahiued be          D t-fa
December31. 1997                            "X
33.4 Proide visitors with tourn gdesad maps       *           Prepay, annually, set of n" and guide        o  0
OD



before the xtart of the tourist season
3.A Obtain information at regular intervals on towists' level of  3.4.1 Conduct surveys of depuating tourists to learn their views on   a   A survey of departing tourists is conducted
satisfcion, reo , exendturs etc.                            the expeence in Cape Verde                                       each year t the and of the myor tDut on
a nd the results an analyzed wvditin two months
3.5 Monitor the evohdion of the turism industry             3.5.1 Create a staiscl unit responsible for gathering and   *   Statistical unit is opeaional before
sanlyzg data on twunam s4cto wvites                             I)ecember 31, 1996
*Before Januoy 31 ecah yer, saiticl unit
publishes information on tourism sector
__________________________________                              activities during  pecding  12  months
3.6 Develop the towurist  onin Sat Mai (Sal Wad) by         3.6.1 Build a road to the end of the zone                        Rod completed before June 30 1997
improving basic  r   etsocu
3.6.2 Embellish one beach are by planting trees and building a  *   Work completed before June 30, 1997
board walk along the beach
3.7 Srngthen the capcity of the burism support institution to  3.7.1 Expariate advisor provides technical support to the tourinm    a   Advisor pepw  trsining program for each
MEzll its role in twrisn dev oent                           support iniuion and ctively prticipates in on-dtejob truning     sff ofthe tounsm support insion
of staff
3.7.2 Train stff in al aspects of tourism indusby           a   Training program  of each staff is impemented
I___________widu_n frst year
OBJECIIVE 4:   h_prove maemget, reduceper              ash sd rlWer a be profietab    of doestpiate enterpr destough trt   and tedical  ppowt sev
Evahualm Crherla. Nusaer doanag an  stMff reeaieg tr_Cg esibe of nteprhsea receive tedual mort through _ uta.de
Objeciesm                                                 Major Actiites                                    Performance Inickators
4.1 Impme magment and profi ityofdomesic  teprise   4.1.1 Pnrvide tning to mage   nd staffofepnt                             Sysmatc sssment ofthe taining neds of
tdmxugh the Chambers of Comme                                   private entrpis  is wompkld in the
Chambers of Commrce before Octor 31,
1996
*   Trng prgm  fir privte e             is
pepared befire Deember 31, 1996
*   Each qr,  atig Jnuary 1997,  es
re given a t leat t    as of enerpfis
operaos (eg. aconting. marketing)
*   At east10 nanage a d Iraining courses
wing ec quaer
a   Atlbnt25 dtaff ofpulaentprisand
taining cous  durin eah guatr
4.1.2 Prvide tchnical support to enterprs  tough consulncy   a   Anssment of coesltnny needs of privae
eepri  li  peted by  e Chmbe of
Cmmerce bere Oa-berba 31, 1996
a   Ca _ltacy Ipr    is prephardbre
Novamber 30, 1996.
a   C    _uumtcy prom    is adved before
Deember 31, 1996
*   Sarting January 1997, at at five eneprie
rerws, eh quter, diect  hnd    ppoet 
____________________________ ____________________________ through conskmncy
x
0
onh



82                       ~~~~~~~ANNEX 8
7:~ ~~~2Pge4o 
111111'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



83                         ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 8
1a 1I
I  ~~~~~~4d
.jj     
Iri ~  ~            *



*   Insurance guidelines and reinsurance
_________ ________ ________ ________ ________ __   ______ ________ ________ ________ ________gulationsula puon inut oiptwpla by     JuJune 1199
1.3.3 Initiate an infonmation campaign to disseminate information    *   Loan recoveries increased by at least 1 0% of
on the judicial systam and principal laws relating to financial  current lvels within the first year and
and economic activities                                   increaes subsequently to 15% in following
years
1.4 Banks will improve the quality of their lending operations by   1.4.1 Establish centalized svstem to provide current financial data   *   New loans to delinquent borrowers are
minimizing lending to delinquent borrowers through         on borrower's profiles and delinquencies                    effectively eminated and overall quality of
improve risk database                                                                                                  loan portfolio has improved by December
1998.
1.5.3 Acquire equipment and software for bank and insurance  *   Improvement in BCV's knowledge of
supervision                                                      financial condition of banks through
implementation of new MIS/software by
December 1997
OBJECTIVE 2:   The scope of finandal intermediatfin of Csila Economica will hnprove by strengten th,e bankrig operat=ons through blbatln of
modem management hormatdon system and capadty building of stan
Evaluatin Criteria:        Improvement in the quality and efficiency of management information in all areas of bank operations and lending; increase professional competence of
management and sta  initiation of pnvatization process; and improved customer services.
Objeetives                                               Major Activities                                  Performance Indicators
2.1 Improve the efficiency of banking operations through   2. 1.1 Upgrade MIS system and provide training for MIS     *   Equipment installed by December 1996
modemization of MIS and training of staff in use of new    operations                                                 *   Relevant staff Uined by December 1996
equipment                                                                                                             *   Management and staff use MIS on a daily
basis to produce reports and making business    o
decisions by December 1997
2.1.3 Install computer equipment for two new branch locations  *   Equipment operational by March 1997
2.2 Determine the financial position of bank               2.2.1 Conduct external audit (funded under PPF)            *   Audit completed by June 1995 and to be
discussed with bank offias by September
1995
*   Auditor's recommendations impemented by
December 1996
2.3 Begin the privatization process                        2.3.1 Establsh timetable for Government to disengage itself of  *   Timetable for disengagement completed by
50/, of its authorized (not paid-in) capital                    September 1995
2.3.2 Begin privatization process with offer of shares to the public   *   Privatizaion process will begin by September
1995 and be completed by December 1997
2.4 Build capacity of staff and management to increase     2.4.1 Develop a comprehensive trining program for management   *   28 staff will be trained (1996-1999)
effectiveness in banking operations.                       and staff in accounting; proect hding; gea  banking        *   9 m gers will be profesionally tained
operations and computr systems
OBJECTIVE 3:   The wope of inandl Interdmetnlati  of BCA wE improve by sir __sgtng the banin operatio  through  hutabtdon ofmodens
Fmanagaesit informatle  sysm and capacty bulding of staff
Evalution Criteria:        Improvement in the quality and efficiency of management infmnation   all areas of bank opertions and lnding; increas proessional comptence of
mnagenment and stag initiation of privaation process; and improved customer services.
Objectives     _____                                     Magor Activities                                  Peformance IndictDors               Oq z
3.1 Improve the efficiency of banking opertions through    3. 1.1 Upgrade of the MIS system and provide training for MIS  *   Equipment installed by December 1996       1
modernization of equipment and traiing of staff in use of new  operatios                                              *   Relet staff taned by Deoember 1996              co
equipment                                                                                                             *   Management and staff ue MIS on a daily       o
bas to produce repor and makig busie s      o
deciaios by hne 1997



32 Detrmine tfinncial ondit ofthF bak                        32.1 Conduct wnd audit (finaced under PPF)                   *   Audit complted Jub  1995 a ID be
diusd        habk dicib dcBCA and BCV
bySpmber 1995
* Au'ws r-midfmimpo_be y
September 1996.
3.3 Bidcaacity of stff and managemenDto ineas                3.3.1 Develop a comprehesive in-country aining progrm for    *   100 sff wl be tained in basic computer
efictvaen  in b8akig woperatok aamn cit               _      manmenad staff i accounting pre  lending geal                     ug by June 1997
evaluation and loan e re and iprove the prvis  of            banking aopaions and aomputer system and profisicnal         *   5 mager wil be trined abroad in fireig
bnkig _es iding expasion of finacia poducts and              tranig abroad for techal managa                                  abange opeos ad ma_ag    by
Lau                                                                                                                            December 1997
*   Basic tining coer f at la 50% of staff
6 ouer per year (bkig opatons,
accuntzn& commercia lendin retai bankin
foreign opeain and lon administation) by
December 1999
OBJECIVE 4:    Impv the su          sry cpabilit  of ISCV (or the merged ISCV/Bankng Supervson Dpatment wihin the BCV)
Evahetlk  Crihj:            Insurance Pe-Ar is adequatey fgulated and ffctly supensed, and its orc  are more eicienldy ingrated in  financia sector devopmt
Objactivas                                                Major Activite                                      Performance Indictors
4.1 Imprv the efficien of suance mpevin operatio             4.1.1 Purchaetwocomputerwithinsura        oftware            *   Equipnt acquired by 1996
trugh modernizat   of equipmet ad tainking of staff in u  of
w equiDmet
4.2 Stregten the apaity of staff to upevis actvie of         4.2.1 Reciit new and tain xioing saff ir gaml supavim  of  *   Within thre (3) yar supervisio staff (4
p-                                                                       companms                                                    .  ade            i      s              OD
*   Traing abroad e nmination, adn  auditig ad           _n                   u     n
commcmd Enh                                                 by December IM
*   In-hou  tain  of staff in auditin and acong             *   Supevisio Departntm will y  ot at lead
P     _odw                                                  two off-so ad one bon-f ;Apoe        per yzr
by December 1996
*   Pmod_  for mvew    inopci         beo
hawe bow eplftd by Deeber 1996
42.2 Chanpg basic insu    a sucture, incuding megimg        *   Imp       tatio of wW srcte flwing
ISCV with BCV's Banking Supervision Deparmen                     submussio_ of_o_____es  _p._t
4.3 Impro  the reguatry inatutr                              4.3.1 Advisory servicesto asmescurrentand p   e regulatory   *   Ain ple esablihed by Decrbor 1997
chanes                                              a*   Any necomry a4uim ts to &v pdenal
regulations complibd by Ms f l99
*   Govw_mit review odthe auo inuanes rds
.uctre  by January 1997
4.32 lIue of automobil inunce pemiums and regulation for   *   Auto  sranc premium  rvid by March
insuance intrmediaries addressed                                 1998
4.4 Maimize puttl ontributon of longterm ins                 4A.4I Technicel asistnc for policy support in developing a   *   Adopt agWeed poicies as per chnial
resources withn financial serr                               strtegc soral  atey investmen policy nd reinranc                 asisoance    mwithi a
guidelines                                                       reasonbAle time frame  _sthtry to IDA (no        5
laorthanLIauary 1999)                        Po 
(Dt 1
0
cc



OBJECTIVE 5:   Improved capacty of INPS to serve he population  a v*ae socal security bld.
Evahida Cdterla:          Impfovme  in the long-term finana sructqr of the Socil Security Fund, including invasment of resurces in acceptable grade nd profitble opporities
Olbiectiws                                              Major Activities                                 Performance Indicatos|
5.1 Improve the efficiency of social scurity operations through  5. 1.1 Upgade MIS sytem and provide specialized uinig in  *   Equipment insalled by June 1996
mode_nization of equipment and trining of staff in use of new  softwar  applications                                 *   Rdevant staff trained (2 saff per year 1996-
equipment                                                                                                                1999)
*   Management and staff use MS on a rgulr
basis to produce repor and making regubatory
decisions by December 1996
52 Build the capacity of staff in social service operations  5.2.1 In-country training of staff in auditing and accounting  *   Eight persons have beon tuaned in basic
financial sldlls by December 1998
5.3 Strengthen the capacity of staff to implement         5.3.1 Technical assistance to implement the recommendations by    a   Acceptable recommendations to be
recommendations by ILO regdng financial stuctue, investment       ILO                                                    implemented within 12 months of report
policies and intnal operatons                                                                                            submission, no later than December 1997
*   Improved long-term a i equilibrium for
INPS within three years (December 1998)
00
oq z
(Dt
cc



IAPLEMAENTATION SCHEDULE
Pro-project                     Prdect Yew   _
1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    1999/00 J
Project elmentsluaters                  ..2..1.3.1.4 .1..12.1.31.4 .1 .I2..1.3..  .1_2.1..3.1.4..
Board       x
Signature/Effectiveness/Closing        x
A. CIVIL WORKS
A.1 Consuction
1. Road in Sal Island                                              dddeAcwwww
2. Factories                                                        dddeAcwww wwwwwwwwww
3. Office for EPZ mgmt. by Promex                                   dddeAcww               l
B. GOODS
B.1 Equipment
1. Office equip. for EPZ mgmt by Promex                            dddeAcww
2. Office equip. for Marine and Corporate Registries                dddeAcww
3. Training centers of chambers of commerce                        dddeAcww
4. Data communication for BCV for payments system                   dddeAcwww wwwww
5. MIS for economic data base for BCV                               dddeAcwww wwwwww  wwww                                            -J
6. MIS for credit-risk centralized system                           dddeAcwww wwwwww  wwww
7. Comp. equip. and software for banking and ins. superv.           dddeAcwww wwwww
8. MIS for BCA                                         dddeAcwww wwwwwww wwwwww
9. MIS for Caixa Economica                                          dddeAcwww wwwwww
10. Comp. equip. for ISCV                                          dddeAcwww wwww
11. Comp. equip. for INPS                                          dddeAcww
12. Office equip. for PSCU                             dddeAcww
0.2 VeNds
1. PSCU                                                ddeAcww
B.3 Fumiture
1. Marine and Corporate Reg.                                       ddAbeAcmw
2. Training centers of the Chambers of commerce                    ddAbeAcmw
3. Office furniture for PSCU                           ddAbeAcmw
d: bid docs/LO/bidding period - b: bidding period - e: evaluation - A: approval (Bank/Government) - c: contract signature - m: mobilization/manufacturing   IV
w: works, supplyfinstallation or service execution.                                                                                 OQ z
0
I.,X



C. SPECIALIST SERVICES
LOI/TORs/Sh.L. for Approval                               dde          dde          dde         dde
Award/Contract review by IDA                                   aac          aac         aac          aac
1. Intemational
1. BCV Payment System                                                  wwwwwww
1.1 Clearing system computerization                                   wwwwwww
1.2 Drafting enactments on NI and EFT                                 wwwwwww
1.3 Training of system operators                                                    www
1.4 Implementation advisor                                            wwwwwww
2. Design/implementation of BCV data base                 www                    w  www
3. Legal consultants for review of legal and regul. framework www      www          ww          w           w
4. Design/implementation of BCV credit data center                     ww           ww
5. Bank supervision                                       _www                      www         ww          w
1. Audit of BCA                                           w
2. Audit of BCA and mgmt assistance                                    wwwwwww wwwwww
1. Audit of Caixa Economica                               w
2. Devlpt. business strategy, new banking products                     www          www         w
1. Insurance specialists for ISCV_                                     ww           ww          ww          w
1. Soc. Sec. spec. for INPS                                            ww           w           w                                             co
1. Project Preparation                                    www          _ 
1. Study on raw materials for footwear factory               wwwww www
2. Study on competitiveness in ligtht manufacturing           wwwww www
3. Market research to promote export products                 wwwww www
4. Design of strategy for tourism                                      wwwwwwww
5. Development of promotional film                                     wwwwwwww
6. Documents on tourism development zone                               wwwwwwww
7. Survey on tourist departing                                         wwww         ww          ww          ww
8. Implementation of hotel classification                                       ww
9. Implementation of a tourist tax system                                       ww
1. Specialists in maritime law                                         ww           wwwww    ww
1. Direct assistance to enterprises                                    www          www         www         www
1. Audit of Project Account                                                   www         www         www          www
2. National
1. Project Coordinator                                             w  wwwwwww wwwwww  wwwwww  wwwwww
2. EPZ management by Promex                                            wwwwwww wwwwww
3. Technical support by Promex to EPZ                                  wwwwwww wwwwww
4. Market surveys for PROMEX manuf. activities            _wwwwwww wwwwww  wwwwwwwww
OQ z
w: service execution.                                                                                                                          x4
0



D. TRAINING
1. Abroad
1. Trips to Asia and Europe for PROMEX staff                           ww           ww          ww
2. Participation in int'l fairs and study tours for PROMEX staff       www          www         www
1 . For Marine and Corporate Registries                                wwwwww             www
2. for BCV in exam. procedures.                                        ww           ww          ww
3. for BCA in foreign operations, adv. comput. finance                 wwwwww   wwwwww
4. for Caixa in foreign operations, adv. comput., finance              wwwwww   wwwwww
5. for INPS in soc. sec. mgmt., actuarial acctg., and                  ww           ww          ww          ww
in software for soc. sec. application                             www          www
6. for ISCV in insurance acctg., audit, financial analys.              ww           ww          ww          I
-~ ~      ~      ~~ 2. Locd
1. for PROMEX staff in   2     a
acctg., computer, marketing, mgmt., finance, tourism,             wwwwwww wwwwww  wwwwwww
2. Training of factory workers                                         www          www         www
3. Training at Chambers of commerce in acctg., marketing,              wwwwwww wwwwww  wwwwww  wwwwww
product develpt.
4. Training for BCA staff in basic bookkeeping, etc.                   wwwwwww wwwwwww
and in credit analysis and lending, HRD                                                  l
5. Training for Caixa staff in basic bookkeeping, etc.                 wwwwwww wwwwww% yw
and in credit analysis and lending, HRD
6. Training for ISCV staff in English                                  wwwwwww wwwwww
7. Training for INPS staff in commercial English                       wwwwwww wwwwww_
E. PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES                                              wAww;lww wwwwww wwwwwwwww_                        I
w: works or service execution.
OQ z
m M
>0
-h
w



ANNEX 10
90                                  Page l of 2
CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND BANK SUPERVISION PLAN
A. Supervision Strategy
1.     Effective project implementation will be the key to the development impact of the project
on the financial and private sectors in Cape Verde. Bank supervision strategy will pay special
attention to the project's development objectives of institutions in the financial sector (BCV, BCA,
Caixa Economica, ISCV, Previdencia) and in the private sector (PROMEX, Export Processing
Zone, chambers of commerce).
2.     Sustained supervision will be needed to keep this complex and multi-fiaceted project on
track and to monitor progress on the implementation of the various components.
3.     The mid-term review will be a critical event in the supervision process.
B. Supervision Plans and Tentative Schedule of Missions
Approximate                                       Expected Skills        Staff Input
dates                Activity                  Requirements         (Staff Weeks)
(Mo/Yr)
7 /96      Project launch workshop and first   Financial Specialist        2
full supervision. Review of budgets  Banking Specialist         2
and work prgrams of all         Private Sector Specialist       2
participating institutions for the
first year of implementation
11/96     Second full supervision mission.    Financial Specialist        2
Assessment of progress made by all  Private Sector Specialist   2
institutions involved in the project  Insurance Specialist      1
in implementing work programs   Training Specialist             1
Payment Specialist             1
4/97     Follow-up mission. review of     Financial Specialist            1
budgets and work programs of all   Private Sector Specialist    1
participating institutions for the
second year of implementation
9/97     Third full supervision mission.  Financial Specialist           2
Assessment of progress made by all  Private Sector Specialist   2
the institutions involved in the
project in implementing their
respective work program
3/98     Fourth full supervision mission.  Financial Specialist          2
Mid-Term Review of all project  Banking Specialist              I
objectives, results and legal   Private Sector Specialist      2
covenants. Review of the budget    Insurance Specialist         1
and work programs of all        Training Specialist             1
participating institutions for the  Payment Specialist          1
third year of implementation   I_I



91                             ANNEX Io
Page 1 of 2
8/98      Follow-up minon on progress        Financial Specilist 
made sinae mid-tem review.        Private Sector Specialist         1
3/99      Fifth u  sWpervision mision.       Financil Specialist              2
Review of budgets and work        Private Sector Speciaii           2
programs of all participating
insiutio  for the fourth year of
______ _____  m plementation._                  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
9/99      Final supevision and ICE Process   Financal Sector Specialist       2
Bankin Specials                   1
Private Sector Spealist          2
Insurance Special                 1
Payment Specialist                1



CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
Disbufeamnt Pro1e1ProfU de Deboufsemet
Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion
DeburownwvW  PmtWi-   Country All Sectors Profile
IDA flwW ywn an                                     Courntry Al          100%
quw           By           02_o CKA    Cracki    Sectofs 
rOUS
Aat7ess budetam                                      S.CteuAs              90%
IDA at tinemw   Per tIrisn    Cwnurbtf     Cwtfr   du Pays
( mn (US* m   CUSS mtilr      (%)       (%)
1997        1               -           -       0%        0%         -    80%
2            0.9          0.9       7%        6%         E
3            0.4          1.3      11%        8%                                                 /
1.8         4             0.5         1.8      15%       10%          *   70%
1998        1             0.7         2.5      22%       12%
2            0.9          3.4      30%       14%         c
3             1.0         4.4      38%       18%         e   60%
3.6         4             1.0         5.4      47%       22%
1999        1             1.0         6.4      56%       26%         a/
2             1.0         7.4      65%       30%              50%  -
3            0.7          8.1      71%       36%                               r
3.3         4             0.6         8.7      76%       42%
2000        1             0.6         9.3      81%       52%          e   40%  -
2            0.5          9.8      88%       82%
3            0.5         10.3      90%       70%         *L
2.1         4             0.5        10.8      96%       78%          *   30%  -
2001        1             0.3        11.1      97%       80%
2            0.1         11.2      98%       82%         _
3            0.1         11.3      99%       86%              20%
0.6         4             0.1        11.4    100%        90%
10%
0%     .     .    .    .    .    .
0        -.
0 )           0        0
_        _        N I      N
Rscal Yoar (Exercice)
0 (9
oI-
i.h



93
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
CAPE VERDE
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Export Incentive Legislation in Cape Verde, USAID/Cape Verde, Nathan Associates/he Services Group,
Arlington, Virginia, March 1993.
Technical Assistance to PROMEX on Investment Promotion and Investment Services in Cape Verde, USAID/Cape
Verde, Nathan Associates, Arlington, Virginia, November 1993.
Assessment of Training Needs and Preparation of Training Plan for Investment Promotion in CaN Verde.
USAID/Cape Verde, Nathan Associates, Arlington, Virginia, August 1993.
A Focus Study of Selected Markets in the United States for Traditional Cape Verdean Products, USAID/Cape
Verde, Nathan Associates, Arlington, Virginia, November 1994.
Offshore Services: Opportunity Identification Study, USAID/Cape Verde, Nathan Associates/The Services Group,
Arlington, Virginia, March 1994.
Report to PROMEX on Intemational Maritime Registries, The Services Group, Arlington, Virginia, Viriginia,
December 1994.
Establishment of Industrial Parks and Export-Processing Zones. Constraints and Perspectives. Plant Location
Intemational, Price Waterhouse, Brussels, 1994.
Mission d'Anpui Sectoiiel au Cap Vert sur la Defiition d'un Programme d'Actions de Marketing Anont et de
Marketinz Aval, Organisation Mondiale du Tourisme, Herblin Conseil, Nice, July 1994.
Financial Sector Development Proiect, Preparatory Review, Banco de Cabo Verde, May 1992.
Analise do Concurso Piblirco para Informatizacao do Banco Comercial do Atlantico. Estudo Comparativo das
Propostas, GESTRES, June 1994.
Informatizacaon do BCA. AnAlise das Propostas, Fernando Santos, Americo Miranda, Cristiano Moreira, Emanuel
Spencer, 1994.
Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde. Ambito. Descripcao Func6es e Normas Complementares.
Financial Statements of BCA for FY 1993/94.
Spreadsheet of BCA for FY 1993/94
Financial Statements of Caixa Economica for 1992, 1993, and 1994.
Spreadsheet of Caixa Economica for FY 1992/93 and 1993/94
2. Selected Bank Reports and Studies
Cape Verde. Industrial Finance and Promotion Project (Cr. 1579-CV), Project Completion Report, December
1993.
Cape Verde, Country Strategy Paper, June 1993.






IRED 27394
2530                - d S   25 00                         4 30                        aA-00                        2IR0D 23400
LaA. A.oA(                                                                                                                a ON. q, d. n.j i.ply ". A.p.7*YI1,w .ddanC.-,
_ordz v@_nS Fi4...D _a d. i.p9.t..+.-. .a, a. y, ph y n -d-
0MAbTN         T     O~' ~  SANTO ANTAO                                                                                         d ..-,
1700,                                                                                                                                                                                      17' O00Nn-
S    u... la dos C. d
_6. P     _SANTA LUZIA d                               I V
SAO VICENTE                  A     LUI               "    N     D
Bronco        R                                                                                       SAL d'
Roso          t -                                                    /                              -
1.6-30x                       C A  P E   V  E R D E                                     SAONICOLAU                                                                                         I 1630o-
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR                                                                                                                       /v
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION                                                                                                                                   s
  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                     _
MAIN PORTS
OTHER PORTS                                                           -  ' .          T      .                                                        F
MAJOR AIRPORTS: HARD SURFACE                                             L                                                 VIT I-
RUNWAY LENGTM OF 900. METERS                                                                                           BOA VISTA
,    FIRST CLASS ROADS                                                                                                                       _ cd v.11      I
SECOND CLASS ROADS                                                                 A     N
ELEVATION IN METERS:
.1000
X 500-1000
0-500
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0    10  20   30   40   50   6OMtns
-.30           2s,30n                       2,500                                                                               S     L    A      N     D     S
FORMER  J                                                                                 D
SPANISH rNR                                                                               D
SAHAtA,           | A
MAURITANIA
MALI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M~J.A
CAPE        .                   MALISANTIA                                                                                                            MAIO
VERDE   SENEGAL9                                           H                                          r . , do S............. d o
THE GAMBIA          ')                                                                                         &- .
GUINEA-BISSAU i7" - ,                   A                                                              PFASOIUA  P       -\        I
SIERRtA LEONEr       ~       C     ~'~              ob  6    ~ I C6TE   ) -    j i ~.~                                      .arnc.
Sk     D DIVOIRE IZ                    V .1od                                                     . 
- -          ~~~~~LJBERliA'\. 
TOGO                                         -
BRA VA       .6                                                             23
24-30'270
OCTOBER 199









IMAGING
Report No:      15030 CV
Type: SAR



