Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23041
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28640; PPFI-P7320; PPFI-P7321)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS 11.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR A
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
DECEMBER 19.2001
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = Escudo (CVE)
CVE 1 = USS 0.008347
US$ 1 = CVE 119.80
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
ATM           Automated Teller Machine
BCA           Banco Comnercial do Atlantico
BCV           Central Bank of Cape Verde (Banco de Cabo Verde)
CAS           Countrv Assistance Strategy
CCR           Caixa de Credito Riural
CECV          Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde
CIMA          Conference Interafricaine di Marche des Assuirances
EPZ           Export Processing Zone
ERR           Economic Rate of Retum
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOCV          Government of Cape Verde
IADE          Entrepreneurial Development Institute (Institutto de Apoqo ao Desenvolvimento
Empresarialh
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Agency
ILO           International Labor Organization
IMF           Intemational Monetary Fund
INPS          National Institute for Social Security Services (Instituto iVacional de Previdencia Social)
MEC          Mviinistry of Economic Coordination
MIS           Management Information System
NPL           Non Performing Loans
NPV           Net Present V'alue
POS           Point-of-Sale
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PROMEX        Export and Investment Promotion Center (Centro de Pronmoqdo Sturistica, do Investinmento e das
Exportaoes)
PSCU          Private Sector Coordinating Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SISP          National Commission for Payment Systems
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
USAID         US Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Korotoumou Ouattara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAPE VERDE
PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs -                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     16
6. Sustainabilitv                                                                         17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          18
S. Lessons Leamed                                                                        21
9. Partner Comments                                                                       22
10. Additional Information                                                               22
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      23
Annex 2. Project Costs ano Financing                                                      27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     32
Annex 5. Ratinas for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     35
Annex 8. Summary of Borrowver's Contribution to the ICR                                  36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000438                                        Project Name: PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE
Team Leader: Korotoumou Ouattara                           TL Unit: AFTFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE                            L/C/TFNuwnber: IDA-28640;
PPFI-P7320;
PPFI-P7321
Count?y/Department: CAPE VERDE                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/31/92                                 Effective: 09/13/96            09/13/96
Appraisal:  06/28/95                                   MTR: 03/31/98              02/15/99
Approval:  05/21/96                                 Closing:  12/31/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Republic of Cape Verde/Ministry of Finance and Planning
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President.      Callisto E. Madavo                         Jean Louis Sarbib
Countrv Manager:     John McIntire                               Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                    Silvia B. Sagari
Team Leader at ICR:   Korotoumou Ouattara                       Noel Kabamba Tshiani
ICR Primary Author:   Korotoumou Ouattara; Shenhua
Wang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutitonal Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualitv at Entrv. S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion (Cr. 28640-CV) in Cape Verde was
approved by the Board on May 21, 1996, for a credit amount of SDR 7.9 million or US$11.4
million equivalent. The credit became effective four months later on September 13, 1996. The
main objectives of the project, as described by the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were
employment creation in the formal sector, and a well-functioning financial sector. The specific
objectives were: (a) for the private sector, to enhance the country's foreign-exchange earnings,
attract foreign investments, and improve the performance of private enterprises; and (b) for the
financial sector, to enhance the functioning of the Central Bank as a monetary authority and
improve financial intermediation through the strengthening of banks and non-banking institutions.
The project, which was a key element of the government program, was complementary to
programs being supported by other key donors, namely the African Development Bank (AfDB),
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Government of Portugal
and the European Union as well as ongoing Bank projects in public sector reform and transport
and infrastructure sectors.
The project objectives were broad and ambitious but in line with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of promoting private sector investment as the main vehicle for the country's development.
Identification of specific development objectives proved helpful in monitoring project
implementation and assessing its achievements.
The project objectives covered all key elements of the government's program which were to: (a)
develop a strong and dynamic private sector; (b) attract foreign investments for export activities;
(c) develop the potential of the tourism sector; and (d) strengthen the financial sector. Two main
components were thus defined, private and financial sectors, to fit the government's program and
accommodate all activities to be undertaken by the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3. 3 Original Components:
The project had two main original components: private sector development and financial sector
development (See table 1). Each component had several subcomponents. In the private sector, the
project was to (a) provide support to the Export and Investment Promotion Center (PROMEX)
to (i) develop export and tourism activities; (ii) establish a video-conferencing facility; (iii) launch
an international marine registry; (iv) develop an export processing zone (EPZ) in the province of
Mindelo; and (v) establish private sector coordination services, and (b) provide support to
domestic enterprises, through the Chambers of Commerce, to improve their performance. In the
financial sector, the project was to finance (a) technical support to modernize the macro
infrastructure for financial operations, including the design and development of an effective
payment system, the review and updating of the legal framework for the financial sector, and
assistance to the Central Bank (BCV) to strengthen its  supervisory function over financial
institutions, and the redesign and implementation of an integrated economic and financial
database; and (b) assistance to public commercial banks (BCA, and CECV) and social security
agencies (INPS, and ISCV) in staff training, audits, and a management information system. The
- 2 -



assistance to the commercial banks was to specifically prepare them for privatization before the
end of this four-year project, i.e., before December 2000.
The project components and activities were designed to relate directly to project objectives in
support of the government's program to strengthen the private and financial sectors. Although the
Ministry of Economic Coordination (MEC) was accountable for project execution,
implementation of project sub-components was to be carried out by key institutions which were
also project beneficiaries: BCV, BCA, CECV, ISCV, INPS, the two chambers of commerce and
PROMEX. The primary role of the Private Sector Coordinating Unit (PSCU) was to coordinate
and monitor the implementation of the various project sub-components by the key sector
institutions, and provide the link between the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) and the World
Bank.
Although technical assistance projects are usually not the best instruments for policy reformn
activities, several such activities were included in the project and undertaken successfully. All
reforns pertained to the financial sector and the Central Bank on the premise that a well
functioning financial system is key in supporting the growth in the private sector. The reforms
included a wide array of changes in the legal and regulatory framework, and included an update of
the Banking law, a revision of the Central Bank statutes and a draft of a new law on off-shore
banking. Given their importance, new banking and insurance regulations were a condition of
credit effectiveness, which helped ensure their approval.
Table 1: Project Original Components and Costs
Component                                             Cost(in US$ million)  Rating
Private Sector Development                           5.90               s
Financial Sector Development                          4.35              S
PPF Refinancing                                       0.85
Unallocated                                           1.10
Total                                                 11.40
3.4 Revised Comnponents:
The project's two main components remained the same throughout project implementation.
However, the subcomponent dealing with the establishment of a video conferencing facility was
not carried out. After credit approval, Cape Verde telecom established two video conference
rooms in Praia and Mindelo, and the video conference facilities envisaged under the project were,
thus, no longer required.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was not evaluated by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). It is rated satisfactory
in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for several reasons. The project objectives and
cormponents were in line with the government's economic program, as stated earlier. Although the
project predates the introduction of the logical framework approach, the preparation team
provided, in the annex of the SAR, a detailed listing of project performance indicators. Those
performance indicators were, in the end, used to draw up the logical framework matrix included in
Annex 1 of this report. However, as was common with most Bank projects at the time, several
-3 -



indicators were input rather than output/outcome related.
In accordance with the Bank's safeguard policies, an environmental assessment was performed
due to potential negative impact of industrial and tourism development on the fragile ecosystem of
the island nation that is Cape Verde. The assessment concluded that the project would not have a
significant adverse impact on the environment, and was given a B rating. There was, therefore, no
ex-post evaluation of the environment impact of the project.
Several project risks were identified by the team and in particular related to government's
commitment to reforms as well as its capacity to implement the project. The project included a
significant amount of expert advisory services to help mitigate these risks.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome in the private sector is rated satisfactory with respect to the achievement of
its objective of employment creation by attracting foreign investment and enhancing foreign
exchange earnings.
The Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion was being implemented at a time
when Government adopted in 1970s, an outward-oriented strategy aimed at privatizing public
enterprises and liberalizing trade after the failed inward-looking policies of the late 1970s and
early 1980s. In 1993, economic growth began to recover with a growth rate of about 4.5 percent,
thanks to higher public investment in economic and social infrastructure and some private sector
investment, particularly foreign, in light manufacturing and fisheries. The formal private sector
played a dominant role in import and domestic trade but its contribution was low in
manufacturing, tourism and services. At the beginning of the project, the manufacturing sector
accounted for 8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Despite Cape Verde's natural
endowments as an Island, its comparative advantage and its potential, tourism did not play a
significant role in the economy and accounted for about 2 percent of GDP, whereas fisheries
accounted for less than 3 percent of GDP. Cape Verde enjoyed a long period of political stability
and a relatively well educated labor force but unemployment remained an important problem with
23 percent of the working-age population officially classified as unemployed.
The project made it its central mandate to contribute to employment creation by directly focusing
on attracting foreign investment in manufacturing, fisheries, and the services sectors with the
establishment of an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) and investment in the tourism sector and the
development of tourism activities. Support was, therefore, given to PROMEX, in charge of the
implementation of Government export-led development strategy to undertake these key activities.
- 4 -



With a continuing stable political environment and fueled by actions in the project, in particular
the establishment of the EPZ with the construction of factory shells for foreign companies, and
promotional campaign abroad by PROMEX to attract tourism demand for Cape Verde, the
project effectively contributed to employment creation in the private sector. According to
PROMEX data, during project implementation years, there was an increase in the volume of
investments in the manufacturing sector which produced a total of 3,655 jobs corresponding to
projects in operation by the end of 2000 (see Annex 1). That achievement has surpassed project's
predictions that 2,700 jobs would be created in manufacturing. The new foreign investment
projects approved from 1997 to the end of October 2000 in the manufacturing sector are
expected to generate, when they attain full operation, a total of 4,071 new direct jobs. From 1996
to 2000, a total of about US$425 million in investment projects was approved by Cape Verdean
authorities and investment projects of about US$188 million are currently in operation.
At the end of the project in June 2001, in the tourism sector, there were about US$63 million
investment projects in operation and US$218 million in the pre-investment phase. A total of 843
jobs had been created and it was expected that projects in the pre-investment phase would create
an additional 2,020 jobs. Tourism sector contribution to the gross domestic product (GDP) has
also increased from 2 percent in 1996 to 3.9 percent in 2000.
The fishing and fish processing industry was able to create 14 jobs for US$600,000 of investment
with project funds.
The project was, thus, able to attract foreign investment as planned and increase the country's
foreign exchange earnings. Exports increased from US$10.3 million in 1996 to US$12.7 million
in 2000, with an average annual growth rate of 5 percent. More importantly, the structure of
exports has changed substantially, and in 1999, garment, shoes, and electronic products accounted
for 82 percent of the total value of goods exported, which were traditionally dominated by
primary sector products. That achievement is directly related to the increase of foreign investment
in the manufacturing sector, and thus, linked to project activities.
An obstacle in the way of the project's objective of enhancing the country's foreign exchange
earnings was the setting up of an international ship registry which was not fully realized. The
results of that activity did not materialize as a draft legislation is still awaiting parliamentary
approval and might be subject to a long and intense scrutiny to make it compliant with
international best practice standards. Also, the construction of the tourist alley, a one-mile road
amenity enhancement in the area of Santa Maria, on the Island of Sal was not completed due to
delays in counterpart funding. The road was built in 1999 and the improvements along the alley
are underway but could not be completed before project closing date of June 2001. That activity
was deemed essential for attracting private investors to develop beach front hotels and
government has committed to complete the alley soon.
A considerable number of people have been trained with project's funds although the full impact in
improving the performance of private enterprise is not known. It is expected that the training
activities and other project support would have improved the capacity of managers and technical
staff, as well as the efficiency or competitiveness of domestic enterprises. As was often the case
- 5 -



with most Bank projects at the time, this project only had input indicators on the number of
people trained but no outcome-related indicator.
In the financial sector, the project's main objective of delivering a well functioning sector was
rather ambitious and optimistic for a four-year project in a country that was transforming a highly
centralized economy into a market-oriented one. The outcome in the financial sector component
is rated satisfactory with respect to achievement of specific objectives of enhancing the monetary
authority of the Central Bank (BCV) and improving financial intermediation as substantial
progress was made in these areas.
BCV has successfully established its function as a Central Bank, after its split from BCA, a
state-owned commercial bank, which was subsequently privatized. With the support of the
project, the Central Bank has implemented an array of activities intended to strengthen its
authority and facilitate its supervisory role. These included the development of a new domestic
and international payment systems; the creation of an economic information database system; the
establishment of a credit risk assessment center which monitors the credit portfolio of the
commercial banks and serves as a credit information center of the banks; a revision of the legal
framework for banking and insurance supervision including regulation for supervision of
operations, legislation on off-shore banking systems and a new law on car insurance, and
employers accident insurance. The supervisory role of the Central Bank over the banking and
insurance sector has been enhanced with the strengthening of its newly created supervisory
department for both banks and insurance companies. BCV is now able to perform regular
inspections including one on-site and two off-site inspections per year of each financial institution.
However, BCV remains a young Central Bank and it is expected that its supervision skills will
improve in the coming years as it becomes more adept at detecting serious problems quickly and
recommend remedial actions at institutions under its supervision.
The improvement in financial intermediation started with the privatization and strengthening of
the state-owned banks and has led to a more competitive banking industry. Cape Verde, which
had no private banks at the start of the project, now has four commercial banks that cater to about
36 percent of the population which is higher than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Some
banks have also started lending for nontraditional activities such as microfinance, as they are faced
with increased competition and try to diversify their portfolio. Commercial banks in Cape Verde
can also rely on a connection to the SWIFT network, realized under the project, which allows
fast, secure, and reliable intemational payments. Domestic financial transactions are also cleared
within 24 hours instead of the originally 48 hours planned under the project. However, the
domestic interbank clearing services have yet to be perfomned electronically rather than manually
as is currently the case.
Despite the important results achieved by the project in the financial sector, there are still several
challenges facing the sector. For instance, the level of financial intermediation, measured as loan
to deposit ratio was 41.2 percent in the year 2000 and remains much too low by international
standards. Although BCA has been privatized, it remains the largest bank in the country with 20
percent Government's ownership and "Golden" share rights that give the State the power to
influence decisions at BCA. Also, the deteriorating macroeconomic environment in Cape Verde in
- 6 -



the year 2000, due to the increase in oil prices, has had a negative effect on the financial sector
with an increase in non-performing loans (NPLs) at commercial banks to 11 percent and 18
percent for BCA and CECV respectively. These elements point to a financial sector that remains
vulnerable and will require careful monitoring in the future.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Private Sector Component (US$5.90 million SAR, US$5.19 million actual):
The private sector component was allocated the largest share of the credit with 52 percent of the
funds at appraisal. It is rated satisfactory as most critical activities were carried out successfully
though with a few shortcomings. The main two subcomponents were (a) institutional support to
PROMEX for (i) development of export manufacturing activities; (ii) development of tourism
activities; (iii) development of an export processing Zone (EPZ) in Mindelo Province; (iv)
establishment of an international marine registry; and (v) establishment of a video conferencing
facility; and (b) support to domestic enterprises. These activities were to be performed by
PROMEX and the two chambers of commerce, and were carried out successfully for the most
part as described below and in Annex 1:
(a) Institutional support to PROMEX:
Created in 1990 by the Government with assistance from USAID, the primary role of
PROMEX was to assist in export promotion and foreign investment development. In 1992,
PROMEX extended its activities to include promotion of tourism as well as positioning itself
as a one-stop-shop for foreign investors. Thus, support from the project was intended to help
PROMEX fulfill its role as the export and investment promotion agency responsible for the
implementation of the Government export-led development strategy under its new statutes as
an autonomous agency. Under the project, training was provided to PROMEX staff to help
fulfill its role.
(i) Development of Export Manufacturing Activities by Domestic Enterprises:
PROMEX's efforts to help domestic enterprises expand their exports included several
studies in 1996 and 1997 on Cape Verde's competitiveness in light manufacturing, raw
materials for footwear and garments; and identification of new export markets. The
project also financed several training programs under which a total of 29 staff were
trained locally and 18 abroad. PROMEX also carried out a media campaign to inform the
business community about its services and started publication of two trade publications:
the investment bulletin CONTACTO, published quarterly, and the magazine
PERSPECTIVA, published annually to provide information to domestic enterprises in
search of new markets for their products. Additional market information provided in both
publications to local producers could have contributed to export expansion by domestic
enterprises. However, PROMEX has not kept separate data on domestic versus foreign
enterprise exports, which has made it difficult to fully assess the impact of the project on
domestic enterprise exports.
(ii) Development of Tourism Activities:
The tourism sector has experienced a tremendous growth during the project years spurred
to a large extent by efforts by promotional activities by PROMEX supported with project
funds, and by macroeconomic and political stability in the country. From 1997 to 1999,
- 7 -



PROMEX participated in a total of 41 tourism promotional activities abroad to stimulate
tourism demand for Cape Verde. Several help desk booths were set up throughout the
country, and tourism offices on the islands of Santiago and Sal were created. All existing
hotels were evaluated and categorized before June 30, 1997. The classification of all
hotels is reviewed annually before the start of the tourist season. A survey of departing
tourists is conducted each year at the end of the major tourist season and the results are
analyzed within two months by the statistical unit established in 1996. Before January 31
of each year, the statistical unit publishes information on tourism sector activities during
the preceding 12 months.
By the end of 1999, according to PROMEX data on tourism, there were 2,200 rooms and
4,135 beds in Cape Verde, surpassing project target numbers. An estimated 2,391 hotels
rooms and 4,475 beds were available for the year 2000. The number of tourists visiting
Cape Verde increased 211 percent, from 37,000 in 1996 to 115,015 in 2000. The average
length of stay of tourists reached seven days in 2000, one day short of the initial target of
eight days. A recent survey by PROMEX revealed that the degree of tourist satisfaction
with services provided by hotel staff has improved significantly since the beginning of the
project.
One important shortcoming in the development of tourism activities was the
non-completion of the tourist alley along the Santa Maria beach due to delays in
counterpart funding. Only a one-mile road in the Sal Island Tourism Zone was built as
planned to enhance hotel development and may not be enough to attract more
tourist-related investments. However, the government is committed to complete the
beautification of the tourist alley and continuing the work started under the project.
(iii) Development of an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in Mindelo Province, S.Vicente Island:
The project was to finance the construction of physical facilities (factory shell) for the
establishment of foreign enterprises. Three factory buildings provided by the Government
of Luxembourg were completed under the Project and successfully leased to three export
enterprises. From the initial target of four factory buildings of 1000 m2 each (totaling
4000 m2), two larger factory buildings were completed instead under the project, one of
1000 m2 (in Praia) and another of 5000 m2 (in S.Vicente), for a total of 6000 m2. One of
these factories has in fact the equivalent surface area of five initially envisaged factories to
accommodate the request from the company. In addition to the construction of the
buildings, the project financed in-factory training of 1,180 workers (98 percent of the
target) from nine EPZ companies.
The management of the EPZ zone was to be carried out by PROMEX until the number of
companies was sufficient to justify the transfer of management responsibilities to a private
company on a concession basis by March 1997. However, opposition from the Mayor of
S. Vicente has prevented PROMEX from assuming that responsibility and the EPZ is
currently without a clearly defined management, which is an important shortcoming of this
project that may threaten the sustainability of the EPZ zone if a solution is not found soon.
-8 -



It should be noted that a government's decree in 1997 transferring management of lands
for industrial uses to PROMEX has failed to resolve the dispute. Given all these
difficulties, it may be time to entrust the management to a private contractor as was
originally envisioned by the project.
(iv)Establishment of an International Marine Registry:
Following the recommendations of a 1994 study financed by USAID that found that Cape
Verde had a comparative advantage in the operation of an open international registry, the
project included this subcomponent with the objective of attracting additional foreign
exchange. The activity was delayed and responsibility for its implementation was moved
from PROMEX to the Ministry of Sea. By the end of the project, a strategic partner was
selected and a joint venture agreement between the government and the private partner
was signed on December 16, 2000. The international ship registry was to start operation in
the first quarter of 2001. However, the operation cannot start so long as the drafted
national legislation to conform to internationally accepted laws and regulations in this
sector has not been passed by Parliament. There is, however, a concern that Parliament
may not find the draft legislation acceptable and, thus delay its passage indefinitely. The
international marine registry has come under new scrutiny with the increased concern of
the international community with money laundering. The World Bank will follow up the
issue of the draft ship registry legislation to ensure that it conforms to emerging best
practices.
(v) Establishment of a Video Conferencing Facility:
This activity was not carried out under the project as the World Bank team agreed that the
establishment by Cape Verde Telecommunications Company of two video conferencing
facilities in the country, would make the construction of an additional facility unnecessary.
(vi) Private sector coordination services:
The project intended to create a Private Sector Coordinating Unit (PSCU) to monitor and
coordinate all activities of the project and was to be housed at PROMEX. A different
arrangement was arrived at later and PSCU was set up as an independent unit, directly
under the Ministry of Finance. This arrangement meant that the coordinating unit had to
hire additional personnel needed to carry its activities as a separate entity from PROMEX,
and did so successfully.
(b) Support to domestic enterprises:
Assistance provided under the project to domestic enterprises was implemented through the
two existing Chambers of Commerce and included training and consulting services for a fee to
help firms with their operational problems with the objective of improving their performance.
These services were provided on a matching grant basis to follow industry good practice. A
total of 810 staff of enterprises have benefited from training and 85 enterprises have received
technical assistance. No data was collected on the evolution of enterprise profitability
following project support. The National Institute for Statistics only reported that the number
of enterprises increased from 4,437 in 1992 to 6,633 in 1997, showing a positive growth that
is expected to continue in the future given greater market liberalization and opportunities.
-9-



The Chambers of Commerce have experienced an increase in their membership, since the
beginning of the project as was expected. For example, membership in the Chamber of
Commerce of Barlavento has risen from 187 at its inception in 1997, to 335 in 2000. The
transfer of commercial licensing activity from the Government to the Chambers of Commerce
has not only solidified ties between the Chambers of Commerce and the private sector, but has
also generated an important source of funds to support activities for the private sector. Two
business forums financed with project funds were organized by the Chambers of Commerce
that helped improve the dialogue between private and public sectors, and the creation of a
National Council for private sector promotion is in the works under the new Government. The
Council will include representatives of the private and public sectors and will function as an
important tool to maintain the dialogue.
Financial Sector Component (US$4.35 million SAR, US$4.44 million actual):
The financial sector component was originally allocated and effectively used about 38 percent of
the credit and is rated satisfactory. Most activities that were listed in the SAR in order to attain
the objective of enhancing the functioning of the BCV as a monetary authority and improve
financial intermediation were carried out successfully. They include: (i) the design and
development of an effective payments system; (ii) the review and updating of the legal framework
for the financial sector; and (iii) assistance to the BCV to strengthen its supervisory function and
to redesign and implement an integrated economic and financial database; (iv) the privatization of
the two state-owned banks; and (v) the institutional strengthening and development of the social
secunty system.
(i) Design and development of an effective payments system:
The development of an effective payments system is one of the major accomplishments of the
project. The connection of all commercial banks to the SWIFT network, which was realized
under the project, allows international payments to be made in a safe, flexible and reliable way.
Domestic financial transactions are also now cleared in 24 hours, faster than the initial project
target of 48 hours. Still all interbank clearing services are performed manually instead of
electronically.
Installation and operation of a network of automatic teller machines (ATMs) allowing
24-hour banking, allied to a network of Points-of-Sale (POS) was achieved to facilitate
payments of purchases in stores. The National Commission for Payments System (SISP),
which oversees the ATM system, is planning to connect to VISA. This would be done via a
Portuguese bank. As of June 2001, 29 ATMs were installed on 5 Islands, 158 POS were set
up, and 27,000 bank customers held ATM/Debit cards for their transactions. It should be
noted that the establishment of automated POS connecting small stores and supermarkets to
commercial banks, and ATMs were additional project activities not originally included in the
SAR.
- 10 -



(ii) Revision and updating of the legalframeworkfor thefinancial sector:
Under this subcomponent and during the project implementation period, a substantial revision
of the banking legal framework was undertaken and several laws and regulations were
adopted including, an update of the Banking Law and the Bank of Cape Verde Statutes. The
adoption of the law was an important step towards clarifying the role of the Central Bank and
giving the institution additional tools to better perform its mission.
A number of Avisos (Bank of Cape Verde Directives) were issued including the banking
supervision mission of the Bank of Cape Verde (viso No. 6/98); the general principles of this
mission (Aviso No. 7/98); the characteristics of banks'capital (Aviso No 8/98); the minimum
level of provisions (Aviso No. 9/98); the minimum level of public titles (Aviso No 10/98); the
net value of banks' assets (Aviso No. 11/98); the liquidity criteria (Aviso No.12/98); the
solvability ratio for banks (Aviso No. 1/99); the information obligations (Aviso No. 2/99); the
participation of banks in other companies and in other banks (Avisos No. 3/99 and No. 4/99);
internal control for banking institutions (Aviso No. 5/99); limit on risk concentration (Aviso
No. 9/99); accountancy rules for banks (Aviso No. 10/99); liquidity and coverage
responsibility for banks (Aviso No. 12/99); minimum cash requirement (Aviso No. 13/99); and
limits on the acquisition of foreign currency (Aviso No. 15/99). A proposed Decree-Law on
off-shore banking was presented to the Government of Cape Verde in 2000 but its adoption is
still pending. Follow-up actions by the World Bank will help ensure that the new legislation
conforms to emerging best practice amid renewed concerns by the international community
about money laundering prevention.
In the insurance industry, a number of laws and regulations were adopted, including Law No.
88/97 dated December 31, 1997 which creates a compulsory regime for automobile liability;
Law No. 52/96 dated December 26, 1996 which merges the former Cape Verdean Insurance
Institute with the Bank of Cape Verde; Avisos (Directives) No. 1/98, 5/98, 6/99 and 14/99 of
the Bank of Cape Verde dealing, respectively, with accounting rules for insurance companies,
insurance for automobile liability, obligation for insurance companies to report statistical data
in relation with the compulsory regimes for automobile liability and work accidents to the
Bank of Cape Verde, and a life insurance regime. These changes represented an important
step in the modernization of the system.
(iii)    Assistance to the BCV to strengthen its supervisory function and to redesign and
implement an integrated economic andfinancial database:
The main objective of this subcomponent was to enhance the functioning of the Central Bank
as a monetary and supervisory authority. In addition to making the payments system faster and
more reliable, the project sought to make current and reliable financial and economic
information available to BCV in support of monetary policy, and the government's fiscal
policy. A database was, thus, installed allowing the Central Bank to generate financial and
economic informnation to support the formulation of monetary and fiscal policies. Today,
BCV produces relevant statistical information available on-line on its web site and has also set
up a modem economic and financial library open to the public in the Central Bank building. A
credit risk centralization system was also put in place to provide current data to banks on
- 11 -



borrower profiles and credit history.
One of the most important achievements for BCV has been its enhanced ability to perform its
supervisory role of banks and insurance companies. The Banking Supervision Department that
was established with technical support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
Bank of Portugal, soon also assumed the supervision of the insurance sector and has benefited
from training of its bank and insurance supervisors. BCV is currently able to undertake one
on-site and two off-site supervisions yearly of each financial institution in the country. It is
expected that these supervisions will improve with time and experience and allow BCV to
detect potential problems and take remedial actions on time. In pursuing monetary policy
reforms, BCV has also abandoned its system of credit ceilings for commercial banks and
replaced it in 1999 by indirect methods of credit control.
The revision of the legal framework for the financial system has helped define more clearly
the role of the Central Bank with in particular an update of the Banking Act, conunercial
banking regulations, and BCV Statutes. As noted earlier, the issuance of banking and
insurance regulations was a condition of credit effectiveness.
One shortcoming of this subcomponent came from the nondevelopment of new financial
instruments for financing private sector development. Also, GOCV did not eliminate
government's subsidies of emigrants deposits in comrnercial banks as agreed during project
preparation. Despite the burden to public finances for continuing such an activity, successive
governments have been afraid of losing the support of the powerful emigrant community by
ending the subsidies. Cape Verde's economy is heavily dependent on remittances from abroad
(20 percent of GDP in 2000) as twice the population of 425,000 Cape Verdeans live abroad.
Both the development of new financial instruments and the elimination of subsidies on
emigrant deposits will be pursed further under the next proposed Growth and Competitiveness
project in preparation.
(iv Privatization of the two State-owned Banks:
The project supported the government to prepare and implement a plan to privatize the two
conmmercial banks (BCA and CECV). Cape Verde's banking industry, which consisted until
1993 of a single tier banking system with BCV providing all commercial banking services was
privatized under the project. The Central Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) was the county's only
commercial bank until 1993 when, under a structural reform agreed upon with the World
Bank and the IMF, it transferred its commercial activities to a new institution, BCA. In 1993,
a second commercial bank, CECV was created from the former post office savings and was
wholly owned by the government. Under the project, both BCA and CECV were privatized
by end of 1999 as planned.
Privatization of the two banks still left BCA as the largest bank in Cape Verde, by total asset
size, with about 70 percent market share. CECV is the second largest bank with close to 30
percent market share. Due to its importance in the financial sector of Cape Verde, the
performance of BCA merits particular attention.
BCA serves over 100,000 clients at 16 branches, including an important number of Cape
- 12-



Verdeans living abroad who hold 33 percent of all BCA deposits. During the period when
BCA was the only bank and government owned and controlled, loans were frequently made to
persons and institutions which were poor credit risks, and this led to a considerable amount
of bad loans. As a result, BCA had to concentrate its post-privatization efforts on establishing
a credit risk management system and recovering bad loans. During project implementation,
BCA benefited from staff training and a new management information system to help improve
the quality of its portfolio. Although the situation of non-performing loans (NPL) has
improved from 35 percent of BCA's outstanding loan portfolio in 1997 to 11 percent of
outstanding loan portfolio in 2000, that situation is still worrisome as the NPL level remains
too high by international standards. BCA is a profitable institution but the analysis of its
audited financial statements for the year 2000 points to a fragile institution. The bank faces
several challenges including a very low 41 percent loan to deposit ratio, and a mismatch of the
term structure of its assets and liabilities with 75 percent medium and long-term loans, 25
percent short-term loans versus 56 percent term deposits. The current situation of BCA needs
to be further improved as the vulnerability of the entire financial sector in Cape Verde hinges
upon BCA's performance.
Another concern arising from the privatization of BCA comes from the fact that government
still has 20 percent equity stake at the commercial bank and has "Golden" Shares rights, i.e.,
privileged voting rights. Other shareholders include the Caixa Geral de Portugal (52.5
percent), the insurance company Garantia (12.5 percent), and small shareholders (25 percent).
"Golden Shares" were created in order for the government to maintain control over strategic
industries for a certain period. Given its importance, the issue of revoking these government
Golden Shares will be taken up in the proposed Growth and Competitiveness project under
preparation.
(v) Institutional strengthening and development of the social security system:
Under this subcomponent, support was provided to the social security fund for employees of
the private sector ( INPS), to improve its efficiency. INPS was the second largest financial
institution in Cape Verde at the time of project preparation. Activities successfully completed
include an internal reorganization, an upgrade of the management information system (MIS)
and staff training for strengthening of the investment department, as well as improvement of
the actuarial capabilities of the institution. In addition, a review of the legal framework of the
industry led to the adoption of a general law on the Cape Verdean social security system (Law
No 131/V/2001) on January 22, 2001. Three Decree-Laws in application of this general law
were submitted to the Government of Cape Verde  in early 2001. These proposed
Decree-Laws adopted a legal framework for social security in connection with self-employed
workers and other workers as well as new by-laws for a proposed "Caixa Nacional de
Previdencia Social" - Social Security National Fund.
Despite these accomplishments, the Social Security Bill that aimed at expanding the role of
INPS to cover all employees (private and public) and propose alternatives to invest INPS
resources is yet to be drafted. The project was, thus, unable to make INPS a significant player
in an expanded financial sector as was envisaged, and a pursuit of the reforms of the social
security system will be undertaken under the new project under preparation.
- 13-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retiurn:
The economic analysis carried out in the SAR was performed for (a) the development of
export-oriented manufacturing in the EPZ zone; and (b) the development of the tourism sector.
Economic benefits were calculated on the basis of the number of jobs generated by the project.
Under the assumptions of opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent, and 2,700 jobs created in the
EPZ zone in four years, the component dealing with export oriented manufacturing had a positive
net present value (NPV) of US$7.56 million, and economic rate of return (ERR) of 31 percent
over a project life of 15 years. Sensitivity analyses showed that NPV would become zero at 1,430
jobs (see Annex 3). For the subcomponent dealing with tourism development, the cost-benefit
analysis at appraisal was based on an estimate of 750 new rooms and 30,000 extra tourists by
1999 with average stay rising from 6 to 8 days per tourist. That corresponded to an average
increase of 250 rooms per year and 10, 000 new tourists per year. The tourism component had a
positive NPV of US$8.31 million at 12 percent discount rate, and had an ERR of 72 percent.
NPV became zero at 175 new rooms and 7,000 additional tourists (see Annex 3).
In the absence of updated cost data at the end of the project, and investment revenues, the same
assumptions made in the SAR were adopted and the analysis was performed on the basis of the
expected results versus those achieved.
In the manufacturing sector, from 1996 to 2000, a total of 3,655 jobs directly associated to
foreign investment were created during project implementation. That implies a positive NPV and
an indication of a positive impact of manufacturing growth on the economy.
For the tourism development component, estimates at the end of the project found that the total
number of hotel rooms reached 2,332 in the year 2000, i.e., an average of 301 rooms per year,
which is higher that the average of 250 rooms per year, making NPV positive. Also, the number
of tourists increased from 37,000 in 1996 to 67,042 in 1999 and 115,015 in the year 2000,
corresponding to an increase of more than 10, 000 tourists per year, i.e., higher than the
established goal in the SAR and an indication of a positive NPV.
The main benefits accruing from foreign investment under this project are the wages received by
the newly created labor and the fiscal revenues accruing to the Government of Cape Verde.
However, it is too early to determine those fiscal revenues as it was projected that direct taxes
would become payable to the government only after the end of a 10-year tax holiday. Therefore,
benefits to government could be evaluated more thoroughly after the tax holiday period.
- 14 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return (FRR) for the project was estimated in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
In the private sector, the project had a mixed and rather modest impact on PROMEX which was a
key beneficiary of the project as well as responsible for implementing a wide range of activities.
In the course of the project, PROMEX benefited from staff training and hands-on participation in
operations that strengthened the organization's ability to undertake better its traditional core
business of promoting Cape Verde exports and tourism. However, the project was less successful
in its attempt to strengthen PROMEX's ability to provide technical assistance to export-oriented
domestic enterprises and facilitate companies' business operations. A study completed in March
2000 on the sustainability of PROMEX recommended that the organization limit its activity to
investment, export and tourism promotion. The study also recommended that PROMEX start
providing some paid-in services to investors and enterprises and give up its investment approval
function which should be carried out by a Government Committee, according to the study.
PROMEX has merged in 2000 with the Entrepreneurial Development Institute (IADE) and is
being restructured. This has delayed the implementation of the study's recommendations, the
success of which will determine the sustainability of the organization.
The project had a positive impact on the Chambers of Commerce's abilities to serve private sector
enterprises. Staff at the chambers of commerce benefited from training offered by the project and
should be better prepared to handle the transfer of commercial licensing activity from the
Government to the Chambers of Commerce. That new activity has not only solidified ties between
the Chambers of Commerce and the private sector, but has also generated an important source of
funds to support activities for the private sector, and make the chambers of commerce sustainable
in the long run.
In the financial sector, the institutional development impact on the Central Bank was substantial.
BCV's ability as a monetary and supervisory authority has been enhanced, in particular, with the
enactment of several laws and directives that clarified the role and statutes of the Central Bank.
The training of Central Bank staff under the project will remain an important asset for BCV
development and sustainability as the young Central Bank of Cape Verde strives to build up on
the four-year project achievements and become better with experience.
Overall, the Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion made important achievements
in the private and financial sectors possible, although much still remains to be done. Cape Verde's
record over the past three years has been one of strong economic growth, in an environment of
low 2 percent inflation. Efforts to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) have begun to bear
fruit, especially in light manufacturing, such as leather goods, and tourism-oriented infrastructure.
Economic growth has been strong over the past five years and during project implementation
period, at an annual average of 6.4 percent. That was spurred by the steady pace of structural
reforms aimed at making the economy more responsive to market incentives and included several
privatizations since 1988 (including all the commercial banks under the project), tariff reform, and
liberalization of staple commodity markets. The challenge for the government is to sustain
- 15 -



economic and political stability for continued growth and permanent improvements in Cape
Verde's international competitiveness.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Asian financial crisis of 1998 dampened somewhat the effects of Cape Verde's promotional
efforts to attract Asian foreign investment, especially in the manufacturing sector. Also,
government had no control over Parliament's failure to approve on time some legislation such as
off-shore banking and marine ship registry laws. However, key legislation, such as that relating to
the Banking Act and the Central Bank statutes was enacted in a timely manner as it was made a
condition of credit effectiveness.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors under the control of Government have affected project implementation. They
include:
(i) High levels of intemal government debt that restricted public expenditures and had
negative impact on project implementation, both in terms of delays in the disbursement of
counterpart funds and  the allocation  of   government resources for important
complementary activities such as EPZ infrastructure, and enterprise development programs.
(ii) For fear of political backlash, the government has not stopped subsidizing emigrant
deposits at commercial banks.
(iii) Several government reorganizations and changes of project coordinator and managers of
some institutions involved in project implementation such as the Chamber of Commerce
occurred and caused some instability and delays but did not have a lasting negative impact
on project implementation. Government did not immediately appoint a new head at
PROMEX after its merger with IADE and that has left the new institution in a state of
uncertainty for a while. The nomination of a new managing director became effective only
in September 2001.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Despite the changes of project coordinators, the PSCU, the main implementing agency handled
project coordination activities in the field and relationship with the World Bank satisfactorily.
Implementation of the project was also undertaken by the main beneficiaries such as PROMEX
and the Chambers of Commerce whose actions and/or predispositions were responsible for delays
in several projects activities. They include:
(i) Institutional weakness of PROMEX hampered the implementation of certain activities
under its leadership. Thus, the establishment of an international marine registry, originally
placed under PROMEX's responsibility, was later transferred to the Ministry of Sea but
the activity could not be completed before the end of the project. PROMEX was also not
- 16-



able to assume the management of the EPZs due in part to its institutional weakness.
(iii) Institutional fragility, low representation, and weak maturity of the Chambers of
Commerce at the beginning of the project delayed the start up of training and technical
assistance activities to enterprises but did not prevent the implementation of these
activities in the end. The Chambers of Commerce were, in fact, able to gain the trust of
enterprises they worked with and able to significantly increase their membership during the
project years.
5.4 Coxts andfinancing.
The original cost of the project was estimated at preparation at US$12.71 million including an
IDA credit of US$11.4 million (see tables in Annex 2). The project closing date was extended
once from December 31, 2000 to June 30, 2001. At project closing, disbursed funds represented
95 percent of total IDA credit. Total project cost at completion was US$10.91, representing 86
percent of original project cost (see tables in Annex 2). The final project cost was less than SAR
estimates because a few activities were not completed on time to permit their financing with IDA
resources. The delays in implementing those activities were due primarily to government's
inability to provide counterpart funding on time to contractors. Throughout project
implementation, the government's contribution fell behind schedule. The Cape Verde Government
contribution to total project cost was estimated at US$1.3 million, corresponding to about 10
percent of the total project cost. As of March 31, 2001, three months before project closing date,
the World Bank had already disbursed about 89.7 percent of the total IDA credit while
Government had only disbursed 62.3 percent of its share of total funding. By the end of the
project in June 2001, GOCV came through and lived up to its commitment of disbursing 10
percent of project cost (see Annex 2).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely. There are good reasons to believe that results achieved by
the project under the private sector component will be sustained in the long run. They include: (i)
EPZ companies showing signs of good profitability prospects and their export activities going
well (some of them have already added additional capacity or are in the process of doing so); (ii)
tourist flows to Cape Verde continue to show an increasing trend; (iii) there are new investment
projects in the pipeline and; (iv) domestic companies have acquired new skills and technical tools
that should allow them to improve efficiency and competitiveness.
There are, however, concerns that sustainability of the achievements of the project under the
private sector component may be threatened if the following conditions arise: (i) the
manufacturing sector remains vulnerable as foreign investment is highly concentrated in the
garment and shoe industries that are subject to strong international competition, are characterized
by extreme mobility, and are particularly sensitive and vulnerable to external shocks; (ii) the lack
of a clearly defined management in the EPZ, if allowed to continue much longer, may threaten the
growth of the zone and even cause the departure of already established firms who expect
management to improve the infrastructure of the zone to facilitate exports further; (iii) PROMEX
is unlikely to become a much more effective organization if it does not implement the
- 17 -



recommendations of the study about its sustainability. It is reassuring, however, though a new
administration is in place, following the January 2001 parliamentary elections, the new
government remains commnitted to the promotion of foreign investment, export, and tourism, as
shown in the program submitted and approved by Parliament. That commitment should translate,
among other things, in continued support of PROMEX with funding necessary for the
continuation of its core promotional activities until it is self-sustaining.
In the financial sector, the project activities contributed to modernization and privatization of the
sector that are almost irreversible gains. The Central Bank is a more efficient and stronger
institution with a much better ability to perform its supervisory mission due in part to the legal,
institutional and monetary policy reforms made under the project. There are reasons to believe
that results achieved at the Central Bank will be sustained thanks in part to staff training and
capacity building implemented during the project. It is also reasonable to expect that the new
Central Bank will be able to achieve greater efficiency with experience and continuing education
and training of staff.
The privatization of the banking industry achieved under the project marks an important step in
the modernization of the financial sector. Nevertheless, the post-privatization situation of banks
needs careful monitoring to take advantage of improved management infornation system at the
commercial banks, and make BCA, in particular, a stronger bank than it currently is.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Project activities were undertaken by such agencies as PROMEX, the Chambers of Commerce,
and the Central Bank that performed activities associated with their regular mandates and
operations. That, therefore, eliminates the need for special transition arrangements. Capacity
building efforts in these organizations should have improved technical staff skills needed to
efficiently pursue their future tasks. It is however, doubtful that PROMEX has built enough
capacity to assume the management of the EPZs and questionable whether that type of activities
should become part of its future mandate. It may be time to assign the EPZ management task to a
private contractor now instead of later as was envisaged under the project.
It should be noted that several activities initiated under this project will be continued under the
proposed Growth and Competitiveness Project to take advantage of the existing momentum and
push achieved progress further. They include continued capacity building at the Central Bank for
development of new financial instruments, pension reforn, and review of the insurance sector
where partnership with the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets (CIMA) would be
examined.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
World Bank performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory.
The project was identified in such a way that its objectives were in line with the CAS and
government priorities to set a conducive environment for investment and private sector growth,
and removing obstacles in domestic business growth, in particular in the financial sector.
- 18-



Project preparation and appraisal were carried out according to a participatory approach, which
involved all the key stakeholders. Contacts made with GOCV  and the  relevant public
administration departments, several surveys and interviews with private companies and
businessmen, business associations, financial institutions, and private sector support agencies were
made, in order to ensure an adequate assessment of the constraints and obstacles facing private
sector development, a realistic design of action needed, and a full appropriation of the project
objectives and activities by the beneficiaries. Performance indicators were identified, although
focusing sometimes more on inputs rather than outputs and outcomes.
During project preparation, involvement of other donors and multilateral agencies such as USAID
and AfDB were taken into consideration and project activities came as a complement of the
support already being provided by these agencies. Participation of the IMF in the area of
monetary policy was also factored in at project preparation.
Several project risks were identified in the SAR. These related to the government's capacity to
implement the project, its willingness to pursue macroeconomic reforms, including  trade
liberalization and the risk that foreign investment would be too small to have a positive impact on
economic growth. Risk mitigation measures were proposed by the World Bank team which
consisted essentially of maintaining a constant, open, and frank dialogue with GOCV to help the
country fulfill its promises under the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision by the Bank was satisfactory but there are several indications that it could
have been significantly improved. Supervision missions were undertaken on average just once a
year instead of twice per annum as initially planned (see Annex 4) but that fact did not have a
lasting negative impact on project implementation as Cape Verde enjoys a relatively well educated
and capable workforce. Thus, the World Bank team at headquarters could rely on dependable
partners at the PSCU and in other key organizations such as the Central Bank, and took
advantage of quick email communication. There were also several visits from the project
coordinator to the World Bank headquarters for working sessions on the project.
For quite a while, there seemed to be a disconnect between project's highly satisfactory rating and
implementation progress recorded in each aide-memoire which raised some issues such as
government's postponing the emigrant deposits issue. It appears that the World Bank team was
overly optimistic and was letting its judgement be influenced by the fact that additional, unplanned
activities were being undertaken instead of focusing on current shortcomings. In retrospect, some
issues were more complex than they first appeared and greater interaction would have been
desirable on issues related to the marine registry, the management of the EPZ, and building of a
tourist alley.
The mid-term review was undertaken 29 months after project effectiveness and in line with the
schedule in the SAR. However, up to 80 percent of project funds had already been disbursed by
then. The mid-term review took stock of the realizations of the project and proposed an action
plan for the future. It was agreed, among other things, to reallocate credit funds within existing
categories but that was never followed up by Bank team, allowing several budget overruns to
- 19-



occur. The only formal reallocation took place after the December 2000 mission when an
extension of the credit was granted in order to complete a few remaining activities and another
reallocation of project funds was ultimately needed.
The project was never found at risk. The closing date was extended once to allow completion of a
few remaining activities. The Bank team remained responsive to changing conditions and made
needed adjustments during project implementation such as the relocation of the project
coordinating unit, adding and dropping some activities, allowing other activities to be undertaken
by a different entity than the original one, as well as allowing funds reallocation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Project team adopted a participatory approach
involving all key stakeholders during project preparation. During supervision missions, the Bank
maintained staff and consultants that weTe familiar with the project, most of whom had been there
since the project inception. Continuous monitoring of project activities, even if from headquarters,
allowed Bank staff and its partners in Cape Verde to take appropriate steps and make the relevant
decisions and adjustments needed for the project to go forward.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. High level Government
officials were involved very early on in the preparation of the project. That resulted in the
project's objectives closely reflecting government's development priorities that were later
confirned in the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy delivered to the Bank.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's overall performance in project implementation was satisfactory. However,
GOCV received an unsatisfactory rating at the end of the project due to delays in counterpart
funding that were responsible for non completion of certain activities such as the tourist alley.
7.6 Imiplementing Agency:
The performance of the PSCU was satisfactory. A general procurement and financial review that
took place during the last ICR mission noted that PSCU made an effort to follow Bank's
procurement procedures and guidelines. The statement of expenditures (SOE) review did not
reveal any material irregularities. Despite changes of project coordinators (three in total), PSCU
produced regular annual work programs and budgets, progress reports (quarterly, semi-annual,
and annual) as well as SOEs, and regular audits of the project accounts. It should, however, be
noted that PSCU had some problems monitoring status of commitments as the coordinator used
to make commitments and budget allocation by project beneficiary instead of by credit category.
- 20 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance was satisfactory. Government remained responsive throughout
project implementation and made appropriate decisions when needed such as having to replace
the project coordinator when the first one left for another job and a competent replacement had to
be found rather quickly. However, as already noted, availability of govermment funds was less
than satisfactory as counterpart finds faced significant disbursement delays during project
implementation. In the end, these delays affected the status of some activities that could not be
completed by the project closing date.
8. Lessons Learned
Several lessons were learned from implementation of the project:
*   Open and constructive dialogue with Government ensures prompt corrective actions when
needed. The World Bank team maintained a good working relationship with project coordinating
unit as well as government officials. That climate allowed both IDA and the GOCV to reach
consensus on new developments during project implementation such as the need to (i) relocate the
project coordinating unit; (ii) move implementation of some activities from one agency to another
that has proven more capable; (iii) drop some activities to be undertaken by others; (iv) include
new activities which proved essential and natural to the success of the project.
D   Careful assessment of weaknesses of partner institutions and or beneficiaries is essential for
successful implementation of project activities. It appears that PROMEX's capacity to handle
several activities for which it was responsible for was overestimated. It became evident in the early
stages of project implementation that PROMEX did not have the institutional capacity to house the
project coordinating unit. Also, the plans for PROMEX to assume the management of the export
processing zone and the establishment of an international marine registry have proven to be beyond
the institution's capacities.
*   Government commitment and collaboration with other donors and key stakeholders is
essential for project success. Most accomplishments under this project would not have been
possible without strong government commitment and competent civil servants in key areas such as
the Central Bank. The government viewed the project activities as key elements of its program and
stayed highly committed to the project from preparation to the end. Despite changes in government
during implementation, support for the project has not wavered. Efforts made by the World Bank
team to coordinate with other donors already present in the country has proven useful and effective.
It created positive synergy and a climate of useful collaboration that allowed the project to
undertake only complementary activities as well as drop planned activities that were executed by
others.
*   Complex issues require considerable involvement and proactivity. It was made clear by the
implementation of the project that dealing with complex issues requires pro-activity on the part of
both Bank staff and the government. Greater interaction would have been desirable on issues
related to the marine registry, the management of the EPZ, and building of a tourist alley, all
activities that turned out to be more complex than anticipated in their execution.
- 21 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In its completion report (see summary in Annex 8), the borrower noted that World Bank's performance,
both during project preparation and implementation is considered very satisfactory.
According to the report, World Bank employees and consultants who were part of project
identification, preparation, and appraisal missions have always adopted a participatory approach in
their relationships with the govemrnent, public administration, beneficiaries, and other entities
involved. That allowed them to better assess the problems to be solved, define priorities, design
alternative solutions, and identify the risks and key factors for project success. In the end, project
objectives complied with the government strategy and were agreed upon by all interested parties.
PSCU's relationship with World Bank staff remain good throughout project implementation and
Bank staff was always available to provide clarifications and solutions to problems raised during
project implementation. Bank staff have always shown the required flexibility to introduce the
adjustments deemed necessary, due to the changing project environment and/or the experience
acquired during implementation. The procurement documents for non-objection requests were
analyzed and processed quickly, as well as the disbursement requests and replenishment to the
project's Special Account. Borrower credits the rapidity of the email communication system used, as
well as the fact that the project task manager was the same from preparation to until only six months
before the end of the project for a smooth working relationship with the World Bank.
The borrower notes, however, that Bank staff did not closely follow the scheduled supervision
missions agreed upon in the SAR. Thus, out of eight originally planned supervisory missions, only
five were carried out. Also, the mid-term evaluation which was supposed to take place
approximately two years after project effectiveness, was finally carried out 29 months after project
effectiveness, in February-March 1999, when about 80 percent of the project funds had already been
disbursed.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
PRIVATE SECTOR
Develop exports by Cape Verde based                                            From 1997 to 2000 foreign investment
foreign enterprises and by domestic                                            projects totaling about US$ 609 million were
enterprises.                                                                   approved and of these US$ 188 million are in
operation and US$ 240 million are in the
pre-investment phase.
A total of more than 3,000 jobs have been
created. Export of goods have increased from
US$ 10.3 million in 1996 to US$ 13 million in
1997, to US$ 10.1 million in 1998, US$ 11.5
million in 1999 and US$ 12.7 million in 2000.
Facilitate the establishment and operations of                                 Three factory buildings provided by
foreign export-oriented enterprises.                                           Luxembourg were completed under the
Project and are being used by the following
enterprises: SIMPLICIDADE (textiles ),
BEAR PNEUS (tires) in Mindelo, S.Vicente,
ECPI ( mattresses) in Praia, Santiago.
Promote the development of the tourism                                         Investment in tourism infrastructure and
sector.                                                                        services represents about 52% of total
investments approved for the penod 1997 to
2000. Of those approved, about US$63
million investment projects are in operation
and US$218 million, are in the
pre-investment phase, representing 91% of
all investment projects in this phase.
The number of tourists visiting Cape Verde
has progressively increased over the years
and reached 115,015 in 2000. Development
of hotel infrastructure and increase in the
number of visitors.
Improve management, reduce operating                                           Training and technical assistance was
costs and raise the profitability of domestc                                   provided under the project to enterprises in
pnvate enterprises, through training and                                       the areas of accounting, management,
technical support services.                                                    human resources, computer training and
business expansion, restructuring and
financing. A total of 810 staff of enterprises
have benefited from training and 85
enterprises have received technical
assistance. No data on impact was collected.
Increase foreign exchange through the                                          The institutional arrangements for the
operations of an Intemational Marine                                           operation of the registry was not completed.
Registry.
Promote the development of                                                     Policies and strategy are designed to develop
micro-enterprises that operate in the informal                                 the informal sector was left to another donor.
sector.
FINANCIAL SECTOR                                                               (i) Financial transactions are processed and
Improve BCV capacities to more effectively                                     settled in a secure and reliable manner,
implement monetary and fiscal policy.                                          thanks to a new payment system; (ii) BCV
now has reliable and current financial and
economic information to support monetary
and fiscal policy, thanks to the creation of a
new database; (iii) several laws governing
financial transactions were enacted including
revision of BCV statutes to ensure the
- 23 -



independence and stability of the Central
Bank; (iv) financial institutions are able to
obtain current and dependable information to
support the credit evaluation process thanks
to the creation of an effective risk
centralization system; and (v) supervision of
financial institutions (banking and insurance)
is conducted on a regular basis, at least twice
every year.
The scope of financial intermediation of                                     CECV was privatized in 1999. New MIS is
Caixa Economica (CECV) will improve by                                        able to track better bank operations and
strengthening the banking operations through                                  especially lending. However, non performing
installation of modem management                                             loans (NPLs) are still too high at 18 percent
information system (MIS) and capacity                                         of total loan portfolio.
building of staff.
The scope of financial intermediation of BCA                                  BCA was privatized in 1999. Staff benefited
will improve by strengthening the banking                                     from several training programs. MIS was
operations through installation of modem                                      enhanced and the bank has experienced an
management information system and                                            improvement in the quality and efficiency of
capacity building of staff.                                                   management information in all areas of bank
operations and especially lending. However,
quality of loan portfolio needs to be improved
with NPLs still too high at 11 percent.
Improve the supervisory capabilities of ISCV                                  Insurance sector is now supervised by the
(or the merged ISCV/Banking Supervision                                       Central Bank on a regular basis.
Department within the BCV).
Improve the capacity of INPS to serve the                                     Improvement in the long-term financial
population as a viable social security fund.                                  structure of the Social Security Fund,
including investment of resources in
acceptable grade and profitable opportunities
was not completed.
- 24 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
PRIVATE SECTOR
(a) Increased investments by foreign     From 1996 to 2000 a total of about US$425   From 1996 to 2000 a total of about US$425
enterprises / Create employment in EPZ:    million in investment projects was approved. million in investment projects was approved.
(i) At least 3 foreign enterprises invest in    Investment projects totaling about US$188   Investment projects totaling about US$188
1998, and at least 5 in each subsequent year million are currently in operation, employing   million are currently in operation, employing
for a total of 13 firms by the end of the  3,666 people.                          3,655 people. Thirty (30) investment projects
project.                                                                         in manufacturing alone were in operation in
2000.
(D) Complete construction of the two factory  Three (3) factory building provided by  Three (3) factory buildings provided by
shells financed by Luxembourg in 1996 and  Luxembourg were completed under the    Luxembourg were completed under the
lease by end of 1997. Construct four new    project. Two (2) new factory buildings were   project. Two (2) new factory buildings were
factory shells with signed lease agreements  financed under the project. One of these  financed under the project. One of these
no later than December 1999.             factories (CVCC) has the equivalent surface factories (CVCC) has the equivalent surface
area of 5 initially envisaged factories. 1000   area of 5 initially envisaged factories. 1000
people employed.                        people employed.
(b) Increased volume of private investments  Number of tourists increase every year:  63 million investment projects currently in
in tourism and increased number of tourists: 1997 -  45,000                      operation.
Number of tourists visiting Cape Verde   1998 -  54,829                           Number of tourists reach 115, 000 in the year
(19,000 in 1992) increases by 5,000 every   1999 -  67,042                       2000. The average length of stay is 7 days.
year for a total of at least 59,000 by Dec  The average length of stay is 7 days.
2000.
(c) Improved management and profitability of 38 training programs have been implemented 38 training programs have been implemented
domestic enterprises:                    benefiting a total of 548 people from national benefiting a total of 548 people from national
At least 40 managers and 100 staff of private 'enterprises.                       enterprises.
enterprises attend training courses each
year.
(d) Improved service exports through     Partner for registry was chosen and      Partner for registry was chosen and
registration of foreign ships:           agreement was signed with GOCV on Dec.  agreement was signed with GOCV on Dec.
At least five ships are registered before end   16, 2000 but activity has not started yet  16, 2000 but activity has not started yet
1999, 10 ships in each subsequent year.    pending adoption by parliament of drafted    pending adoption by parliament of drafted
new legislation.                        new legislation.
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Payment system equipment installed, and    Payment system equipment installed, and
Financial transactions are processed and    staff trained by September 1998. Domestic  staff trained by September 1998. Domestic
settled in a secure and reliable manner:  financial transactions are cleared within 24   financial transactions are cleared within 24
Payment system equipment installed, and    hours. Total of 195 people were trained  hours. Total of 195 people were trained
staff trained by September 1998.         locally and 12 abroad. All commercial banks locally and 12 abroad. All commercial banks
are currently connected to SWIFT.        are currently connected to SWIFT.
Additionally, a network of ATM and POS has Additionally, a network of ATM and POS has
been installed and is currently operational.   been installed and is currently operational.
Laws governing financial transactions are    Banking and insurance legislation revised    Banking and insurance legislation revised
revised to support the growth and soundness and prudential directives established by June and prudential directives established by June
of financial institutions and the independence 1997.Insurance guidelines and reinsurance   1997.lnsurance guidelines and reinsurance
and stability of BCV.                    regulations put into place by June 1997.  regulations put into place by June 1997.
Supervisory staff (4) are trained in insurance  195 supervisory and other staff trained locally 195 supervisory and other staff trained locally
supervision by December 1998.            and 12 abroad.                           and 12 abroad.
Supervision Department will carry out at least BCV supervision department carres at least One on-site and two off-site supervision
two off-site and one on-site inspections per  2 off-site and one on-site supervisions per   inspections ( 3 in total) are carried out by
year by December 1998. Supervision of   year by Dec. 1998. Supervision of banks and BCV each year for all financial institutions.
financial institutions (banks and insurance) is insurance companies is conducted on a
conducted on a regular basis.            regular basis.
Banking and insurance regulations,      Banking and insurance legislation revised    Banking and insurance legislation revised
- 25 -



acceptable to IDA, are in force by Dec 1998. and prudential directves established as  and prudential directives established as
required by June 1997. Insurance guidelines required by June 1997. Insurance guidelines
and reinsurance regulations put into place by and reinsurance regulations put into place by
June 1997.                              June 1997.
CECV and BCA are financially and        100% of CECV shares are offered for sale to CECV was 100% privatized in 1999.
institutionally strengthened, so as to be able  the private sector in 1998 and CECV
to be offered for sale to pnvate investors and  privatized in 1999.
100% of CECV shares are offered for sale by
1998.
At least the majority of BCA shares is offered The majority of BCA shares (80%) are  BCA was prvatized in 1999 with 20% shares
for sale by 1999.                       offered for sale to the private sector in 1999. held by Govemment as planned. However,
Government's "Golden" Shares have
privileged voting rights.
Improve the efficiency of social security  MIS equipment and software installed  MIS equipment and software installed
operations through installation of modem  59 staff have been trained locally and 3  59 staff have been trained locally and 3
equipment and training of staff.        abroad. 8 staff trained in basic financial skills abroad. 8 staff trained in basic financial skills
by December 98.                         by December 98.
Management and staff currently use MIS on  Management and staff currently use MIS on
a regular basis to produce reports and make  a regular basis to produce reports and make
regulatory decisions.                   regulatory decisions.
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Private Sector                                        5.90            5.19           0.87
Financial Sector                                      4.35            4.44            1.02
Project Preparation (PPF)                             0.85            0.45           0.52
Total Baseline Cost                                  11.10           10.08
Physical Contingencies                               0.74            0.83            1.12
Price Contingencies                                  0.87            0.00
Total Project Costs             12.71           10.91
Total Financing Required              12.71           10.91
The original cost of the project was estimated at preparation at US$12.71 million including an
IDA credit of US$11.4 million. At project closing, disbursed funds represented 95 percent of total
[DA credit. Total project cost at completion was US$10.91, representing 86 percent of original
project cost. The final project cost was less than SAR estimates because a few activities were not
completed on time to permit their financing with IDA resources.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      3.10          0.30         0.00          0.00          3.40
(2.10)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.30)
2. Goods                      2.60          0.40          0.02         0.00          3.02
(2.60)       (0.40)        (0.02)        (0.00)       (3.02)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          2.50         0.00          2.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.50)        (0.00)       (2.50)
4. Training                   0.00          0.00          1.30         0.00          1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.30)        (0.00)       (1.30)
5. Promotional Activities     0.00          0.00          1.10         0.00          1.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
6. Operating Costs + PPF      0.00          0.10          1.27         0.00          1.37
(0.00)       (0.10)        (1.17)        (0.00)       (1.27)
Total                      5.70          0.80          6.19          0.00         12.69
(4.70)       (0.70)        (5.99)        (0.00)       (11.39)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.                        ~~~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          1.69           0.00           0.00           0.00           1.69
(1. 19)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.19)
2. Goods                          2.60           0.40           0.81           0.00           3.81
(2.60)         (0.40)         (0.81)         (0.0()         (3.81)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00           2.15           0.00           2.15
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.15)         (0.00)         (2.15)
4. Training                       0.00           0.00           1.28           0.00           1.28
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.28)         (0.00)         (1.28)
5. Promotional Activities         0.00           0.00           0.58      i    0.00           0.58
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.52)         (0.00)    i   (0.52)
6. Operating Costs + PPF          0.00           0.00           1.40           0.00           1.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.98)         (0.00)         (0.98)
Total                          4.29           0.40           6.22           (.00           10.91
(3.79)         (0.40)         (5.74)         (0.00)    i   (9.93)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured tlhrouglh national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs relatcd to (i)
maniaging the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l  r                            | Percentage of Appraisal
Component       [      Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
=  IDA    Govt.     CoF.       IDA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA  i Gov.,  CoF.
PrivateSector             5.90       1.12      0.00       6.02       1.14      0.0()    102.0  101.8   0.0
Financial Sector          4.35       0.00      0.00       4.44       0.00      0.00     102.1   0.0    0.0
PPF                       0.85       0.00      0.00       0.45       0.00      0.00     52.9    0.0   (0 (
Contingencies             1.61       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    (.0
Total                     12.71      1.12      0.00      10.91       1.14      0.00     85.8   101.8   0.0
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
(1995 US$ million)
BENEFITS
Fin.    Project                Tax.    Direct   Indirect           Total net Incr.
Project Rest.   mgt.   EPZ     Rent to After 10 Increm.  Increm.           cost/ben  (D+1)
Year costs  Share  Share  mgmt.   EPZ    years   Wages  Wages                   for year  wages
1  -2.515  -0.735  -0.061   -0.060                                                       0.125
2  -1.095  -0.735  -0.061   -0.060  0.447           0.548    0.258             -3.371    0.000
3  -1.095  -0.735  -0.061   -0.100  0.300           1.096    0.511             -1.001    0.100
4  -1.095  -0.735  -0.061   -0.150  0.447           1.644    0.767             -0.084    0.201
5                          -0.150  0.447            1.644    0.767              0.817   0.3014
6                          -0.150  0.447            1.644    0.767              2.708   0.3014
7                          -0.150  0.447            1.644    0.767              2.708   0.3014
8                          -0.150  0.447            1.644    0.767              2.708   0.3014
9                          -0.150  0.447            1.644    0.767              2.708   0.3014
10                          -0.150  0.447            1.644    0.767              2.708   0.3014
11                          -0.150  0.447   0.187    1.644    0.767              2.708   0.3014
12                          -0.150  0.447   0.374    1.644    0.767              2.895   0.3014
13                          -0.150  0.447   0.561    1.644    0.767              3.082   0.3014
14                          -0.150  0.447   0.561    1.644    0.767              3.269   0.3014
15                          -0.150  1.526   0.561    1.644    0.767              3.269   0.3014
-5.800  -2.940  -0.244   -2.020  7.190   2.244   21.372    9.973 NPV(12%)    4.348   0.3014
IRR       7.663
_ _ _ _ _ _ ______   _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _  _ _ _   __ __ _   __ _ _ _ __ _ _  0 .3 0 9 1 _ _ _ _
Economic analysis was evaluated in the SAR for two main subcomponents, i.e., a) the
development of export-oriented manufacturing; and b) the development of the tourism sector. The
financial sector was viewed as a means to an end of achieving success in the other two main
components.
(a) For the sub-component dealing with the development of export-oriented manufacturing and
information technology-based service industries, in addition to direct project costs, 67 percent of
the financial sector component costs, and 50 percent of the project management costs, the
evaluation also took into account US$1.82 million of EPZ start-up cots and factory-shall
construction undertaken on grant terms by the European Union and Luxembourg. The benefits
have been calculated on the basis of 2,700 new jobs created in the EPZ as a result of the project
(a more conservative estimate than the "base scenario"of 3,700 jobs predicted by Plant Location
International), each of which produces one low-paid indirect job outside the zone. Rents of the
factory shells (US$20 per square meter per year for pre-constructed factory-shells) become
payable on occupation, and direct taxes become payable only after the end of a ten-year tax
holiday (income taxes paid by local workers are transfers within Cape-Verde Inc. and are not
taken into account). The opportunity cost of capital has been taken at 12 percent. On the basis
of these assumptions, the component dealing with export oriented manufacturing has a positive
NPV of US$7.56 million, and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 31 percent over a project life
- 29 -



of 15 years. This positive impact derives predominantly from the benefits accruing from the
directly-generated employment.
Sensitivity analyses have been carried out to identify the effects of variances from the base-case
on the economic return of the private sector component. The biggest risk is a shortfall in
job-creation, and the switching value for this variable at which the NPV becomes zero is 1,430
jobs.
Under the same assumptions used at appraisal, it is estimated that at the end the project, NPV is
positive given that a total of 3,655 jobs directly associated to foreign investment in the
manufacturing sector were created under the project.
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS FOR THE TOURISM SECTOR
(1995 US$ million)
=___ .___  =__=_   BENEFITS
Taxes on
GCV/  Fin.    Project                                         Increm.  Direct             Total net incr.
Project  dono   Rest.  mgt.    Land   Rental Tourist consump. Profits  Wages on Incr.             cost/ ben  (D+1)
Year costs   costs   Share  Share   sale  tax   tax        & imp. tax tax    constr.   Constr.          for year  wages
1 -0.55667   0.085   0.275   -0.061  0.113                                                             -0.865  12.50%
2 -0.55667   0.085   0.275   -0.061  0.113                                                             -0.044    0.000
3 0.27833   0.085   0.275   -0.061  0.113                                   0.820   0.113               0.399    0.103
4 0.27833           0.275   -0.061  0.113         0.216     0.300           0.820   0.338               1.330    0.123
5                                                 0.432     0.600           0.820   0.450               1.692    0.164
6                                         0.047   0.432     0.600                   0.450               1.739    0.083
7                                         0.063   0.432     0.600  0.141            0.450               1.895    0.083
8                                         0.094   0.432     0.600  0.281            0.450               2.067    0.083
9                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.422            0.450               2.301    0.083
10                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.563            0.450               2.442    0.083
11                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.563            0.450               2.442    0.083
12                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.563            0.450               2.442    0.083
13                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.563            0.450               2.442    0.083
14                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.563            0.450               2.442    0.083
15                                         0.188   0.432     0.600  0.563            0.450               2.442    0.083
-0.557   0.255   1.100   -0.244  0.452  1.520   4.968  6.900  4.222    2.460   5.401 NPV (12%)   25.166
IRR        7.230
(b) For the sub-component dealing with tourism development, the cost-benefit analysis in the
SAR is based on an estimate of 750 new rooms (average increase of 250 rooms per year) and
30,000 extra tourists by 1999 (average increase of 10,000 tourists per year). Government
estimates predicted 4,300 new rooms and 43,000 additional tourists. The average stay per tourist
was to rise from 6 to 8 days. Expenditures per tourist-day are estimated at US$80 per person,
and cost of construction is US$50,000 per room, of which 30% is for local labor. Direct job
creation is of one per room (conventional staffmg rates often reach twice this level) with indirect
job  creation  being  50%   of direct.   Wages and  opportunity  costs are the  same  as in  the
manufacturing sector. On the basis of these assumptions, the tourism development component of
- 30 -



the project has a positive NPV of US$8.31 million at 12 percent discount rate, and has an ERR of
72 percent.
Sensitivity analyses were also carried out for the tourism sub-component. The main risks are
shortfall in hotel construction and number of tourists. Assuming that these two variables remain
in the same ratio, the switching point at which NPV becomes zero is 23 percent of the base level,
i.e., 175 new rooms, and 7,000 additional tourists.
At the end of the project, under the same assumptions used in the SAR, NPV remains positive
given that the number of hotel rooms reached 2,332 in the year 2000, corresponding to an
average increase of 301 rooms per year compared to the predicted 250 rooms per year in the
SAR. The number of tourists visiting Cape Verde also reached 67,042 people in 1999, greater
than the original estimate of 30,000 tourists.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
09/94                         6   3 Financial Sector Specialists,
3 Private Sector Development
Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/95                         4   2 Financial Sector
Specialists, 2 Private Sector
Specialists
07/95                         8   1 Financial Specialist,
2 Private Sector Development
Specialists, 5 Consultants
Supervision
10/96                         2   1 Financial Specialist,              HS             HS
I Private Sector
Development Specialist
03/97                         1   1 Financial Specialist               HS             HS
03/98                         2   1 Financial Specialist, I Private    HS             HS
Sector Specialist
03/99                         8   1 Sr. Financial Specialist, I        HS             HS
Banking Specialist, 3 Private
Sector Development Specialist, 3
Private Sector Insurance
Specialist, 1 Lawyer
12/00                         2   1 Sr. Financial Specialist, I        S              HS
Consultant
ICR
06/01                         3    1 Sr. Financial Sector               S              S
Specialist, I Private Sector
Development Specialist, I
Lawyer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 49.5                          52.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                      80.6                         140.7
Supervision                              100.43                        348.3
ICR                                        20.5                          74.9
Total                                    233.03                         611.1
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development                O H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                             O H  O SU O  M  * N  O NA
Social
ZPoverty Reduction                  OH  OSUOM              N  * NA
Z Gender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
1 Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                   0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Financial Sector Development
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
M Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
: Supervision                                       O HS * S  O  U  O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
* Preparation                                       OHS *@S  O U  O HU
* Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
? Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U   O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
*   Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
*   Missions Aide-memoire
*   Back-to-Office Reports
*   Beneficiary Institutions Reports
* Government Contribution to the ICR Report
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Summary of the Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion
(Credit 28640-CV)
1.  The Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion (CBPPSP) started with a letter
addressed to IDA by the Government of Cape Verde in 1992, requesting to fund a private sector
development program. This program should have included, namely, capacity building activities for those
institutions supporting private sector development and exports, as well as activities supporting financial
sector liberalization, modemization, and expansion.
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design
2.  The development objectives of the CBPPSP as established in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
and the Project Implementation Manual were (i) the creation of jobs in the formal sector of the economy;
and (ii) the establishment of a modem and functional financial sector.
According to the Development Credit Agreement, these objectives were to be achieved through support
to the Government in (i) the creation of a framework conducive to private sector development; (ii) the
implementation of an export-led development strategy; and (iii) the liberalization and expansion of the
financial system. Given these objectives, the Project was structured in two main components, one
relating to the Private Sector and the other to the Financial Sector.
3.  The activities supporting the Private Sector centered around two main objectives: (i) the creation of
new economic export-led activities generating foreign exchange eamings (industries oriented towards
exports, tourism and other services); and (ii) the improvement of the efficiency and competitiveness of
national enterprises. Implementation of activities under the first objective remained with PROMEX -
Center for the Promotion of Investment, Exports and Tourism, while implementation of activities under
the second objective was delegated to the newly created Chambers of Commerce, associations
representing the interests of the national private sector.
4.  In the Financial Sector the Project contemplated support activities directed towards (i) the
strengthening of the Central Bank capacity to supervise and regulate the monetary market and the
banking and insurance sector; (ii) the rehabilitation and modemization of the commercial public banks in
preparation for privatization; and (iii) the reform of the social security system. Implementation of the
activities contemplated under the first objective was logically attributed to the Central Bank (BCV), the
second to the two commercial public banks existing at the time (BCA and CECV) and the third to the
INPS, entity managing the social security system for the private sector.
5. The approach outlined above is coherent with the strategy undertaken by the Government when the
Project was designed that viewed the private sector as the principle vehicle for national development.
This was based upon a series of government programs and measures with the goal of i) increasing
national currency revenues generated by the creation of a strong industrial export sector and the
development of tourism and ii) removing barriers to national enterprise growth with emphasis upon a
functional financial system.
- 36 -



6.  The approach chosen is also coherent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World
Bank for Cape Verde at the time of Project preparation which prioritized three main objectives: i) the
reduction of State presence in the economy, ii) the improvement of infrastructure and iii) the promotion
of an enviromnent favorable to investmnent and growth of the private sector. The PCIPSP intervened in
all three areas with emphasis in the latter.
7.  Project preparation followed a participatory approach and involved all relevant entities
(Government, public administration, agencies supporting the private sector, commercial and industrial
associations and financial institutions). Thus, project preparation sought to secure an adequate
identification of the factors leading to private sector development, design a realistic framework for
Project interventions and ensure complete appropriation of project objectives by beneficiaries in order to
guaranty the relevance of activities chosen and maximize efficiency and efficacy in their implementation
and in the achievement of results desired.
8.  Project design was guided by the importance of avoiding duplications and exploring synergies with
other projects financed by IDA, namely the Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2377 CV),
the Transport and Infrastructure Project (Cr. 2466 CV) and the Public Sector Capacity Building and
Reforn Project (Cr. 2566 CV), as well as by other donors such as AfDB (at the time supporting IADE),
USAID (then supporting PROMEX until mid 1996) and other bilateral agencies active in support for to
private sector.
9.  Despite care taken during its preparation, the Project presented a relatively high level of complexity
requiring capacity and willingness of the Govemment and beneficiary as well as determination to
undertake certain risks that could adversely impact the efficiency and efficacy of its implementation.
The SAR indicated two main risks that could affect the implementation of the Project::
The possible slow down in the implementation of macroeconomic and structural policies alongside an
eventual resistance of the Government and/or beneficiary institutions to adopt certain measures for the
liberalization of trade, pricing and finance. In fact, certain macroeconomic policy changes have been
experienced, contributing to a rapid growth in the internal public debt, difficulties in foreign payments,
subsequent cutbacks in public expenditures and maintenance of import and credit ceilings beyond those
previously planned. The project also suffered some delays from the lack of clear definitions in adopting
legislation and other measures initially proposed under the project.
A weak response from foreign investors, tourism operators and tourists to the promotional efforts and
incentive packages offered by the Government of Cape Verde. In this case the response was positive,
although the results achieved for the tourism sector have not yet reached the expected levels.
In general, as will be further developed, the difficulties encountered in these various spheres did not
significantly impair the implementation of the project. This was in large part due to the precautionary
measures built into the SAR and an adequate mechanisms for dialogue and collaboration between the
Government and the Bank/IDA, allowing for continuous adjustments of Project implementation to
external conditions.
10. In conclusion, it may be stated that the original objectives of the Project were clearly and
realistically defined, coherent with the development priorities established by the Govemnment and the
World Bank and did not undergo significant alterations, remaining relevant throughout Project
implementation.
- 37 -



Project design may have been complex and ambitious with respect to the institutional capacity of the
Government and some beneficiaries, but the potential risks were adequately identified in the SAR.
Some of these risks did in fact materialized but their impact was minimized by the precautionary
measures adopted and the participatory model utilized for Project preparation and implementation. This
model allowed full engagement of the Government and all beneficiaries in the implementation of the
activities and facilitated the establishment of mechanisms for dialogue and collaboration and continuous
adjustment to changing conditions.
B. Objectives/Results Achieved
11. As previously mentioned, the Project is structured in two main components, Private Sector
Development and Financial Sector Development, in tum subdivided inlto sub-components. The
achievement of objectives for each of these sub-components is analyzed and presented in detail in the
Implementation Completion Report and respective annexes. In this section only a summary is presented.
Component A. Development of the Private Sector
This component is subdivided in two main sub-components:
A. 1 - Capacity Building of PROMEX, implemented with funds provided to support the center's
activities in the areas of foreign investment, export and tourism promotion as well as to improve its
capacity to intervene in these areas;
A.2 - Assistance to National Enterprises with funds channeled through the two Chambers of Commerce
for the implementation of training programs and technical assistance to these enterprises as well as for
the organization of entrepreneurial forums.
Sub-component A: Capacity Building of PROMEX
12. Funds made available under the Project for this sub-component were directed to PROMEX to
support (a) the implementation of promotional campaigns for foreign investment and tourism; (b)
improved conditions for the establishment and operation of free-zone enterprises and hotel units; (c)
improved export capacity of established enterprises; and (d) strengthelning the institutional capacity of
PROMEX in developing activities in these areas.
Funds for the establishment of an International Ship Registry in Cape Verde were included under this
sub-component, but responsibility was later transferred from PROMEX to the Ministry of Sea and the
Project Coordinating Unit (PSCU).
13. An evaluation of this sub-component demonstrates that the results expected were practically all
achieved with respect to activities (a) and (d) above, and only partially attained with respect to (b) and
(c), given that several of these activities suffered significant delays in their execution or were only
partially implemented.
Several factors contributed to this situation but the following should be emphasized (i) a great dispersion
and variety of activities delegated to PROMEX; (ii) the fact that PROMEX's activities are more
oriented towards investment promotion than towards exports and post-investment services to enterprises
( "after-care"); (iii) the delegation of activities and responsibilities to PROMEX for which it is not
specialized; and iv) the lack of rigorous estimation of the costs and/or legal and institutional conditions
- 38 -



necessary for the development of certain activities.
14. Despite the difficulties encountered, the principal objectives established in the SAR and in the
Development Credit Agreement with respect to new industry and tourism investment, growth in exports
and the number of tourist visiting Cape Verde was attained or were very close to expected levels.
Hence, it may be affirmed that the execution of this sub-component was overall satisfactory.
Sub-component A.2: Assistance to National Enterprises
15. Funds available under this sub-component were channeled through the Chambers of Commerce
and directed towards support for (i) the implementation of training programs and technical assistance to
national enterprises; and (ii) the implementation of entrepreneurial forums.
Evaluation of this sub-component concludes that results expected from the activities inplemented were
fully attained, although more consistently with respect to training than with technical assistance, given
that activities in the latter concentrated more on feasibility and new enterprise studies than on improved
management and profitability of existing enterprises as established under the SAR. With respect to the
forums, two of the four planned were implemented, as a result of the nascent and fragile institutional
capacity of the Chambers of Commerce that also caused delays in training and technical assistance,
although later recouped. In substitution of one of the planned forums, an Atelier to discuss the
development of the Private Sector is scheduled for end of May 2001.
Although it is not possible to present quantitative indicators of the impact of these training and technical
assistance activities on management efficiency, competitiveness and profitability of beneficiary
enterprises, general opinion is that the impact has been visible and very positive. Results achieved were
also relevant in strengthening the institutional capacity of the Chambers of Commerce who were able to
benefit from training, create a team of consultants/trainers available for future activities, reach out to
enterprises and increase membership.
16. Thus, the established objectives were achieved and the execution of this sub-component is
considered as very satisfactory with respect to the training programs implemented.
Co,nponent A. Financial Sector Development
17. This component initially contemplated 5 sub-components:
B. I - Assistance to the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) in order to improve its operation, regulation and
supervision of the banking system, modemize the national and intemational payments system, secure the
appropriate coordination and control of monetary policy and develop new financial services and
products;
B.2 - Support to the commercial bank - Banco Commercial do Atlantico (BCA) with emphasis upon
improving management and efficiency of its operations in preparation for privatization;
13.3 Support to the commercial bank - Caixa Econ6mica de Cabo Verde (CECV) along the lines of the
support given to the BCA;
B.4 - Support to the social security agency - Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (INPS) in order to
improve its efficiency and facilitate the implementation of recoimmendations made in a study prepared by
the Intemational Labor Organization; and
B.5 - Support to the national insurance entity the Instituto de Seguros de Cabo Verde (ISCV) in order to
strengthen capacity in regulation and supervision of the insurance sector. These sub-components were
later reduced to four with the integration of the ISCV into the Supervision Department of the BCV.
- 39 -



Sub-component B.1: Assistance to the BCV
18. Assistance to the BCV contemplated providing technical assistance, equipment and training to (i)
implement and develop a secure and efficient international and national payments system; (ii) develop an
integrated database of economic and financial information; (iii) revise some banking and insurance
sector legislation and regulation; (iv) install an efficient and centralized credit risk system; (v) strengthen
the banking and insurance sector's capacity for supervision; and (vi) improve coordination and control
of monetary policy and develop new financial products and services.
19. Evaluation of the execution of this sub-component is summarized as follows: (i) with respect to the
payments system, the Project supported BCV, BCA, and CECV connection to the international SWIFT
system, the creation of an inter-bank corporation, SISP, and the installation of a network of ATMs and
POS (activities not initially contemplated in the project) with only automatic compensation of
inter-bank transactions remaining and to be operational during the year 2001; (ii) the database of
economic and financial information was installed and a technical assistance is currently being provided
to modernize the computer programming. This will introduce new functions including the possibility of
on-line research through BCV's web page, also financed under the Project, although not initially
planned; (iii) legal consultants elaborated a series of legal diplomas and regulations submitted for
Government consideration, but some of these diplomas have not been published given certain
reservations and/or required previous revision of higher legislation; (iv) the Credit Risk Center was
installed in the BCV, although with some delays, and is regularly updated with information provided by
commercial banks and consulted for analysis of bank loans; (v) the Supervision Department of the BCV
was strengthened and regularly undertakes supervision of the banking and insurance sectors; (vi) the
teclml-ical assistance contemplated under the Project in the areas of monetary policy and new financial
products and services was not used, as BCV opted for support provided by the IMF and the Bank of
Portugal and the work groups created for implementation and coordination encountered difficulty in
reaching consensus.
20. Given these results it may be stated that, with the exception of the last activity mentioned above,
the objectives with regards to the development and modernization of a payments system, the
improvement of the credit portfolios of banks, the regulation and supervision of the banking and
insurance sectors and the timely production of statistical information for financial, monetary and fiscal
policy have been achieved and expected results attained, in some cases surpassed. The objectives
regarding the regulation and control of monetary policy were also achieved, although without the direct
support of the Project. Only the activities regarding the creation of new financial products and services
remain uncompleted. Thus, the overall execution of this sub-component is satisfactory and very
satisfactory in the case of the payments system.
Sub-component B.2: Support to the BCA
21. Project activities in support of the BCA basically included (i) technical assistance in management
under a management contract with an international bank to support bank administration in the design
and implementation of a general plan for restructuring and privatization; (ii) the financing of training
programs in-country and abroad for staff; and (iii) the acquisition of computer equipment and services
to modernize the information management system.
22. The management contract was later considered umnecessary given the government strategy for
privatization later on chosen, reason why this activity was not implemented and corresponding funds
- 40 -



were reallocated to other areas. These activities were thus significantly strengthened allowing for the
attaimnent of results beyond those initially expected, in particular for the information management
system that was practically recreated under the Project.
23. Although the first activity above was not implemented, the central objective of preparing the bank
for privatization as well as support during the process was fully achieved, although with some delay in
schedule and with a methodology differing from that planned. Thus the general execution of this
sub-component is satisfactory and very satisfactory with regards to the modernization of the information
system.
Sub-component B.3: Support to the CECV
24. The support activities to the CECV contemplated under the Project were similar to those directed
at the BCA, differing only in that a consulting firm would be contracted in order to elaborate a strategic
plan for privatization in the place of a management contract with an international bank.
25. An evaluation of this sub-component confirms that all activities were implemented as planned with
all results expected attained, although with some delay with respect to the initial schedule for
privatization. It is important to note that the technical assistance contracted elaborated a Strategic Plan
for Privatization for the period 1998-2002 which not only created the framework for privatization but
one which is also currently used to orient the management and development of the bank.
26. Thus, it may be stated that all the objectives of this sub-component were achieved and that its
execution is on the whole satisfactory and very satisfactory with respect to the technical assistance and
the strengthening of the information management system.
Sub-component B.4: Support to INPS
27. The support contemplated for the INPS under the Project consisted in (i) contracting technical
assistance in order to implement the recommendations of the study prepared by the ILO; (ii)
strengthening the information system through acquisition of computer equipment and software; and (iii)
financing training programs for staff.
28. From an evaluation of this sub-component it can be concluded that all the activities in the areas
contemplated were implemented, although not always in the manner as planned and with certain delays.
The results expected were attained, particularly in the areas of strengthening the information system and
staff training. Difficulties were experienced in the implementation of the technical assistance due in
large part to the lack of strategic orientation on the part of the Government in regards to restructuring of
the social security system, a plan for investment in the system or the institutional structure of the INPS.
29. The execution of this sub-component is on the whole satisfactory; with certain exceptions, the
majority of objectives planned were completely achieved. However, as compared to other Project
beneficiary institutions, the INPS could have benefited in a more substantial manner from the support
made available under the Project.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
30. The SAR provides an evaluation of the costs and benefits of the project based on expected results
of the Private Sector, these being jobs created and possible revenues resulting from the growth in export
- 41 -



industries, information technology services and tourism. Financial Sector development is considered as
a means to ensuring success in both components and is not analyzed separately.
31. A comparison of the actual results achieved in these areas with SAR estimations concludes that the
projected values for industrial investment and services were reached, but fall slightly below for those
expected for tourism, particularly with respect to growth in the number of rooms in hotels.
Notwithstanding these differences, the results achieved are above values estimated for the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) and the Net Present Value (NPV). Thus, the actual ERR and NPV calculated for
both components were on the whole positive, indirectly confirming that the main objectives of the
Project were achieved.
Thematic Obiectives
32. The World Bank places great importance on the social impact of projects financed, particularly
with regards to poverty alleviation, gender issues, the environment and the development of the private
sector.
33. Given its nature, the Project impact was particularly important for the last of the areas above, but
was also very important in poverty alleviation through the creation of a significant number of direct and
indirect jobs and in improving the social condition of women, given that the majority of jobs created
were filled by women.
With respect to the environment, the negative impacts of the Project may be considered as minor given
the nature of activities implemented. However, it must be noted that industrial and tourism development
imply risks such as the degradation of the natural, cultural and human environment that should be
adequately appraised in future interventions.
Global Evaluation
34. In conclusion, the execution of the Project is overall very satisfactory, considering that the majority
of the objectives and results expected were attained.
The areas demonstrating the most positive results include the promotion of foreign investment and
tourism, the payments system and, in general, the strengthening of the information systems of the
various entities involved and training programs, those directed towards national enterprises as well as
the beneficiary institutions.
Among areas in which results were somewhat below expected levels are the creation of conditions
favorable to the installation and operation of industrial and tourism activities, the promotion of exports
and, in general, some technical assistance and legal consulting activities.
C. Principal Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Factors not Subiect to Government Control
35. Project implementation was not greatly affected by factors of this nature. However, the following
factors may have affected, although not in a significant manner, the execution of some activities (i) the
financial crisis in Asia which may have negatively impacted efforts at investment promotion in these
markets; (ii) the continuing trend towards the reduction of bilateral aid to Cape Verde which may have
- 42 -



hampered efforts at securing co-financing; (iii) failure of some legislative bills due to conflicting bills of
the National Assembly; (iv) municipal elections in 1999 causing instabilities in municipalities key to the
implementation of some Project activities; (v) delays in disbursement and non-objections on the part of
the World Bank and IDA during the initial phase of implementation; and (vi) partial observance of
contract deadlines, specifications and conditions on the part of contractors and suppliers of goods and
services.
Factors Subiect to Government Control
36. Among the factors subject to Government control affecting the implementation of activities and the
achievement of Project objectives, the following should be emphasized: (i) the lack of timely adoption of
sufficient legal and institutional measures to significantly improve the environment for investment and
economic activity; (ii) certain delays in and/or lack of response to recommendations of the World
Bank/IDA on the part of consultants and the entrepreneurial forums; and (iii) certain changes in
ministries and the Project Coordinator.
Additional factors under this category may include certain aspects of Project design such as the disparity
between funds allocated to the sub-component "Capacity Building of PROMEX" and those to
"Assistance to National Enterprises," the nunber and volume of interventions attributed to PROMEX
and its actual institutional capacity, as well as insufficient preparation of conditions underlying the
effective development of some activities. However, in this case the responsibility for these factors
should be shared with the World Bank and on a smaller scale with some of the beneficiary institutions.
Factors Subject to Control by Implementing Agencies
37. Among the factors in this category that most affected the implementation of the Project the
following should be mentioned (i) weak institutional structure of PROMEX in relation to activities under
its responsibility and the continuing uncertainties as to its mission and key functions; (ii) fledgling and
weak institutional capacity of the Chambers of Commerce at Project start-up resulting in initial delays in
the training and technical assistance activities directed at national enterprises; (iii) the existence of
certain unclear definitions of the competency's and autonomy of the Central Bank; (iv) institutional
fragility, weak dynamism and large volume of bad credit of the BCA at Project start-up and v)
institutional weakness of the INPS not permitting this institution to take full advantage of the Project.
Impact of these Factors on the Implementation ofActivities
38. The impact of these factors are reflected in the financial execution of each of the sub-components
which reveals certain deviations from that originally planned, showing the differing capacities and
dynamism among their respective implementing agencies. Noteworthy positive examples are the BCV,
which has seen its share of Project funds increased by 41,4% of that initially allocated, and the
Chambers of Commerce, which have likewise increased their share to 18,8% of that initially allocated.
By contrast, the INPS saw a reduction by 24,2% of fund initially allocated. Other beneficiary
institutions also experienced reductions in funds allocated, although on a smaller scale: - 13,2% for
PROMEX, - 12,7% for BCA and -6,4% for CECV. In the case of the BCA and CECV, available
funds were reallocated to support further BCV activities once privatization was complete.
These factors also affected specific activities such as the development of management of the industrial
zone of Lazareto, not developed due to lack of adequate preparation of underlying conditions and
PROMEX's inexperience in this area, delays in the construction of the Santa Maria Tourist Alley due to
- 43 -



inaccurate estimations of the costs entailed, the installation of an international ship registry due to an
inadequate evaluation of the legal and institutional conditions required, and the fact that certain bills
prepared with Project support remain unpublished also due to an inadequate evaluation of the legal
conditions necessary and/or insufficient strategic orientation on the part of the government.
However, the above-mentioned factors did not significantly impact the implementation of the Project, as
is evidenced by the previous conclusion that no main objectives were left unrealized.
D. Project Sustainability
39. Sustainability of the results achieved in the development of the private and financial sectors such as
growth in external investment, increase in exports and in the number of tourists visiting the country,
improved competitiveness and export capacity of enterprises, the new payments system, strengthened
capacity of the BCV and INPS, the privatization and improved efficiency of the commercial banks, and
the creation of direct and indirect jobs appear to be reasonably sustainable as long as no serious extemal
or internal shocks occur, which at current date appears unlikely. However, some of these results, with
particular note to extemal investment and tourism, are somewhat vulnerable as the industrial activities
are concentrated in sectors sensitive to extemal shocks and investors and tourists originating from a
small number of countries, factors that ought to be minimized.
An analysis of sustainability is extremely mixed in the case of the capacity building of PROMEX and
the Chambers of Commerce and their capability in continuing promotional activities and assistance to
enterprises. In reality, the Project has been the principal support for these activities during recent years
and their sustainability will be seriously threatened if significant external financing is not encountered in
the future given the following (i) the promotional nature of these activities does not generate revenues to
secure self-sustainability; (ii) given Cape Verde's situation, resources generated by other activities of
these institutions are insufficient for continued promotional efforts; and (iii) given the current crisis in
public finances, it will be extremely difficult for the Government to contribute to these efforts with
public funds.
E. World Bank Performance
40. In light of the evaluation presented above, the performance of the World Bank during Project
preparation and implementation is considered satisfactory given the following (i) Bank staff
participating in the identification, preparation and appraisal missions of the project adopted a
participatory approach which led to a consensual and applicable framework for the project (although, as
stated above, the solutions encountered have not always proven to be the most optimal); (ii) the
relationship between the PSCU and Bank staff responsible for Project coordination and monitoring has
been smooth throughout and Bank staff have always been available to provide explanations and
information requested and to offer support in the search for the most applicable solutions; (iii) dossiers
submitted by the Government were analyzed and considered in a speedy manner and disbursement and
non-objections were decided in short time spans (with the exception of some delays experienced during
the initial phase of project implementation); and (iv) supervision and monitoring of Project activities
were satisfactorily implemented, although with significant deviations from that planned in the SAR.
F. Government and PSCU Performance
41. The performance of the Government and the PSCU are also considered satisfactory in the
preparation and implementation of the Project given the following (i) Government commitments made
- 44 -



under the Project were honored; (ii) the SAR conditions for establishing creditworthiness and initializing
disbursement were honored, although with some modifications accepted by the World Bank; (iii) the
Project Coordinator was designated, the PSCU installed and equipped with staff and the necessary
means, namely in the areas of the accounting and financial management of the Project, for its operations
in a timely manner; (iv) the Project Account was opened on schedule and the external auditor was
selected and contracted through a competitive bid; and (v) the PSCU continuously fulfilled its functions
in the monitoring, evaluation and technical and financial reporting of Project implementation as
determined in the SAR, although with some adjustments in the annual revisions as agreed upon with the
World Bank/IDA. However, the Project experienced systematic delays on the part of the Govenmment to
disburse counterpart funds, in part due to existing restrictions in public expenditures. The Government
also demonstrated certain difficulties mentioned above with respect to strategic orientation, approval of
bills and response to Bank inquiries and/or recommendations.
G. Overall Evaluation of the Outcome
42. In the light of the present summary, the overall evaluation of the Project outcome is very
satisfactory given the following (i) principle objectives were achieved; (ii) results expected were attained
(in some cases surpassed); (iii) the results achieved positively impacted the development of the private
and financial sectors of Cape Verde; and (iv) the economic rate of return and net present value are
largely positive although not reaching the projected levels based on the hypothetical values of the SAR.
H. Future Operations
Given the observations made in previous sections, a new IDA-financed intervention is highly
desirable in order to ensure the consolidation; sustainability and continuity of the results achieved and
should include activities in the following areas:
*   Private Sector: (i) definition of a strategy and plan of action to reorganize and restructure the
network of public institutions supporting the development of the private sector; (ii) capacity building
of these institutions, Chambers of Commerce and other entrepreneurial associations; (iii)
promotional campaigns for foreign investment and tourism with the aim of diversifying the sectors
of investment and the country of origin of investors, operators and tourists; (iv) improving the
overall environment for investment and business and facilitating the installation and operation of
new enterprises and economic activities; and (v) strengthening competitiveness and export capacity
of national enterprises through training and technical assistance available to all eligible economic
operators.
*   Financial Sector: (i) reform of the legal and institutional framework of the sector; (ii) diversification
of the financial market and creation of new financial instruments; (iii) consolidation and
strengthening of the institutional capacity of the BCV and its autonomy; and (v) reform of the social
security system and capacity building of INPS.
I.  Key Lessons Learned
43. The key lessons leamed from the Project's implementation for future interventions are summarized
into the following principles (i) maintain mechanisms for permanent dialogue and collaboration among
the Government, World Bank/IDA and the beneficiaries/executing agencies; (ii) ensure adequate
coordination with other donors and relevant entities not directly involved in the Project; (iii) ensure prior
and sufficiently detailed analysis of all the legal and institutional implications of proposed activities; (iv)
- 45 -



provide a realistic and solid base for estimated costs; (v) direct activities towards the resolution of
specific problems of beneficiary entities; (vi) adopt more holistic and integrated approaches towards
private sector development; (vii) integrate capacity building of public institutions supporting the Cape
Verdean private sector into a more ample process of restructuring and reorganizing the network of these
institutions; (viii) create specialized and professional institutions for the development of activities which
existing institutions may not have the capacity or vocation to implement; ix) place greater priority upon
"after-care" services with regards to foreign investment and tourism activities as compared to
promotional services; x) ensure that support activities to national enterprises with public funding are
integrated into national programs that will secure respect for principles such as universality and equal
access and treatment to all eligible economic agents; and xi) always include in projects well-developed
incentives for the use of modem information and communication technologies and systems.
- 46 -



