Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2864 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 13, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2864 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated April 11, 1996 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s private sector (hereinafter called the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Banking and Insurance Regulations” means the two sets of regulations to 
be issued for the banking and insurance industries, respectively, such banking 
regulations to regulate loan portfolio criteria, capital adequacy, exchange risk and 
debt equity ratio provisions, and such insurance regulations to regulate capital 
adequacy, risk premium exposure and portfolio diversification, and each such set of 
regulations to be acceptable to the Association.
(b)
"BCA" means Banco Comercial do Atlantico, a government-owned commercial 
bank established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) No. 43/93 dated July 15, 
1993;
(c)
“BCV” means Banco de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s central bank established 
by the Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) No. 42/93 dated July 15, 1993;
(d)
“CECV” means Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde, a government-owned commercial 
bank established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) No. 54/93 dated August 31, 
1993;
(e)
“Chambers of Commerce” means Cameras de Comercio, the Borrower’s two 
chambers of commerce established in accordance with the Borrower’s Decree-Law 
(Decreto-Lei) No. 57/95 dated October 23, 1995;
(f)
“ECV” means Escudos Cabo Verdianos, the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
“INPS” means Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social, the Borrower’s 
National Institute for Social Security, established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law 
(Decreto-Lei) No. 135/91 dated October 2, 1991;
(i)
“ISCV” means Instituto de Seguros de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s insurance 
regulatory commission established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) 
No. 132/91 dated October 2, 1991;
(j)
“MCE” means Ministerio de Coordenaçao Economica, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Economic Coordination;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
January 12, 1996 and January 22, 1996 between the Borrower and the Association.
Page  3
(l)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“PROMEX” means Centro de Promoçao Turistica do Investimento e das 
Exportaçoes, the Borrower’s Export and Investment Promotion Center established by the 
Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) No. 55/95 dated October 16, 1995; and
(n)
“PSCU” means the private sector coordination unit referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing  September 15, 2006 and ending March 15, 2036. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2016 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, environmental and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) above, 
the Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain, until completion of the Project, an account (the 
Project Account), in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $100,000 
in ECV (the Initial Deposit), and thereafter, at quarterly intervals following such 
deposit, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as are estimated to be required 
for the carrying out of the Project during the ensuing quarter, as agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association and taking into account the financing plans agreed in 
each annual work program prepared in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account, in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section, will be used exclusively for the Borrower’s 
counterpart expenditures under the Project and be made available to PROMEX, BCV, BCA, 
CECV, ISCV and INPS for the purposes of carrying out Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 and 
B.5 of the Project, respectively, in accordance with the financing plans agreed in 
each annual work program prepared in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (being PROMEX, BCV, BCA, CECV, ISCV and INPS) 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has:
(a)
issued the Banking and Insurance Regulations;
(b)
opened the Project Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement 
and deposited the amount of the Initial Deposit;
(c)
appointed the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i);
(d)
established a financial management and accounting system for the Project, 
acceptable to the Association;
(e)
prepared a detailed in-factory training program, acceptable to the 
Association, for workers under Part A of the Project for a period of one year 
following the Effective Date; and
(f)
prepared a detailed training program, acceptable to the Association, for 
the first year of the Project for each of BCA, CECV, BCV, PROMEX, ISCV and INPS for 
training under the Project; and
(g)
established the PSCU and appointed the Project Coordinator in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Economic Coordination of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Coordination
C.P. 30
Praia, Cape Verde
Page  7
Cable address: 
Telex:
COORDENACAO FINANÇAS
6508 MCECV
Cape Verde
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Corentino V. Santos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
  Credit
   % of
 Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Civil works 
(a)
Part A.1 (c) (i) (B)
   1,200,000
70%
of the Project
(b)
Other
     350,000
70%
(2)
Goods 
   2,000,000
100% of foreign 
Page  8
expenditures and 
95% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
   1,500,000
100%
services
(4)
Training 
     800,000
100% 
(5)
Promotional 
     550,000
90% 
activity 
expenditures
(6)
Operating costs 
 
(a)
Salaries of
     140,000
90%
contractual
staff
(b)
Operation and
      60,000
50%
maintenance
(7)
Refunding of
     550,000
Amounts due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
     750,000
TOTAL
   7,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures";
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of salaries of local contractual staff employed by PROMEX 
and costs in respect of the operation and maintenance of the PSCU.  For the purposes 
of this paragraph, “costs in respect of operation and maintenance” means the costs of 
maintaining vehicles (including fuel), office rent, supplies and utilities; and
(d)
the term “promotional activity expenditures” means expenditures for 
activities, including promotional campaigns, distribution of pamphlets and literature 
and organization of promotional meetings, organized by PROMEX under Part A of the 
Project for contact facilitation with potential investors both in the manufacturing 
and tourism sector and includes costs relating to travel, hotel, telephone charges and 
subsistence expenses for staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
under Category (1) (a) in respect of any contract for works for 
construction of the three four new factory buildings in the export-processing zone of 
Mindelo under Part A.1 (c) (i) (B) of the Project until evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been provided of the rental of the Luxemburg Shells to private 
Page  9
companies under Part A.1 (c) (i) (A) of the Project; and
(c)
under Category (4) until the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory 
to the Association that BCA has appointed: (i) a management contractor, in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 3 of this Agreement, to carry out training for BCA under 
Part B.2 (b) of the Project; and (ii)  a Board of Directors comprised of persons with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods and works under contracts not 
exceeding $200,000; (b) training; (c) operating costs; (d) promotional activities; and 
(e) consultancy services for: (i) firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent, and (ii) individuals under contracts not exceeding $50,000, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) creating an 
appropriate framework for private sector development in the territory of the Borrower 
and implementing an export-led development strategy; and (b) liberalizing and 
expanding its financial system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Private Sector Development 
1.
Institutional Support to PROMEX 
(a)
Manufacturing Activities
(i)
Promotion of investment opportunities in the Borrower’s territory 
in target 
markets identified, particularly in Europe, Asia, West 
Africa and the United 
States of America for potential investors 
through: (A) the carrying out of a 
program including publication, 
broadcasting, trade-show participation and 
dissemination of 
promotional materials to promote investor awareness and 
enhance the Borrower’s image as a viable place for investments in light 
manufacturing; and (B) a media campaign to enhance business community 
awareness of services and support that exist to assist in developing 
exports. 
(ii)
Carrying out of a program for the attraction of foreign 
investment, including 
contact with potential investors and 
organization of seminars and 
presentations for 
potential investors. 
(iii)
Promotion of export by domestic enterprises through provision of 
training and 
consulting services to such enterprises to improve their 
export capability, 
and organization of seminars and promotion of 
exporter participation in 
international trade fairs, trade shows 
and study tours.
(iv)
Local and overseas staff training in investment- and 
export-related subjects, 
in-country travel by PROMEX staff to monitor 
and promote investment and the 
provision of professional services by 
local suppliers.
(v)
Carrying out of three studies: (A) a study of the competitiveness 
of the 
Borrower’s light manufacturing industry; (B) market 
research on raw materials 
for footwear and garment factories in the 
territory of the Borrower; and (C) 
market research to identify new 
markets for exporters based in the territory 
of the Borrower. 
Page  10
(b)
Tourism Activities 
(i)
Promotion of the Borrower in target markets identified, 
particularly in 
Europe, Asia, West Africa and the United 
States of America to attract foreign 
investment in the hotel industry 
through, inter alia, promotional activities, 
including seminars and 
presentations, and preparation of literature and design 
of an 
investment promotion strategy. 
(ii)
Implementation of a marketing plan to attract tourists, which 
includes 
preparation and dissemination of promotional 
materials and tourism promotion 
campaigns. 
(iii)
Improvement of tourism services through the establishment of 
approximately 
three tourism offices and preparation of 
tourism documents. 
(iv)
Monitoring of tourism sector activities and quality of services 
through 
surveys and hotel classification, consultation 
concerning a possible tourism 
tax, and the creation of a statistical 
unit to centralize information.
(v)
Improvement of the tourism zone in Santa Maria (Sal Island), 
including 
construction of a new road. 
(vi)
Carrying out of an in-country training program for PROMEX staff in 
tourism 
promotion and development. 
(c)
Export-Processing Zone 
(i)
(A)
Completion of construction work on three factory shells 
financed by 
Luxemburg (the Luxemburg Shells) for rental to 
private companies; and
(B)
construction of four new factory buildings in the 
export-processing 
zone of Mindelo to house export 
companies in the manufacturing and 
service sectors. 
(ii)
Provision of in-factory training to workers to increase 
productivity. 
(iii)
Provision of support to PROMEX to manage and develop the 
export-processing 
zone and provide day-to-day services to 
enterprises that invest in the zone. 
(d)
Marine Registry 
(i)
Establishment of an international ship registry office in the 
appropriate 
ministry or agency of the Borrower and provision of 
training for staff in ship 
registry management and acquisition of 
necessary registry equipment. 
(ii)
Provision of consultants’ services to facilitate the registration 
of shipping 
companies. 
(e)
Video-Conferencing Activities
Establishment of video-conferencing facilities to facilitate communication links 
within Cape Verde and between Cape Verde and overseas through the provision of 
consultants’ services and equipment. 
(f)
Private Sector Coordination Services
Monitoring and coordination of the Borrower’s activities in the financial and 
private sectors and coordination of complementary activities financed by bilateral and 
multilateral aid agencies. 
Page  11
2.
Technical Support Services for Domestic Enterprises
Provision of technical advisory services to domestic enterprises through the 
Borrower’s two new chambers of commerce, including training and seminars.
Part B:
Financial Sector Development 
1.
BCV
Acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory services to BCV to: 
(a)
design and implement an effective and secure international and domestic 
payments system; 
(b)
establish an integrated data base of economic information; 
(c)
review the legal framework in the banking and insurance sectors to advise 
on any possible need for reform; 
(d)
develop an effective credit-risk centralization system; and 
(e)
carry out its banking supervisory function; and 
(f)
strengthen its capabilities in the areas of monetary policy and 
development of new financial instruments. 
2.
BCA 
(a)
Carrying out of a comprehensive training program in all aspects of 
banking operations, and general and financial management for senior staff. 
(b)
Strengthening of the general management team, and review of the 
management structure policies and procedures, and preparation and implementation of a 
comprehensive restructuring plan within BCA through management training and provision 
of technical advisory services in all areas of commercial lending and banking 
operations to strengthen BCA and prepare it for privatization.
(c)
Acquisition and installation of an adequate management information 
system. 
(d)
Carrying out of a full diagnostic audit (including financial and 
institutional aspects and a viable business plan) of BCA. 
3.
CECV 
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to CECV in for institutional 
strengthening, management and carrying out of a staff training program for its staff 
in accounting, project lending, general banking operations and computer systems. 
(b)
Upgrading and modernization of the management information system and 
acquisition of equipment for two new branch locations. 
(c)
Carrying out of an external institutional and financial audit of CECV and 
design and implementation of a privatization plan. 
4.
ISCV
Strengthening ISCV through: 
(a)
training of staff in supervision of insurance companies, actuarial 
accounting and audit procedures; 
(b)
review and, if necessary, introduction of changes to the basic 
institutional structure, including the possibility of integrating ISCV’s activities in 
BCV; 
Page  12
(c)
provision of technical advisory services to assess the regulatory 
framework for the insurance sector; 
(d)
acquisition of computer equipment; and 
(e)
revision of the insurance sector regulatory framework to strengthen the 
industry’s supervisory authority. 
5.
INPS
Implementation of some of the recommendations contained in a study of INPS 
carried out by the International Labor Organization, including: 
(a)
staff training in accounting and development of a management 
implementation system; 
(b)
strengthening of INPS through acquisition of office computers, including 
both hardware and software packages; and 
(c)
consultants’ services to improve INPS’s efficiency.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part E of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in 
Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Cape Verde may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
Page  13
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in 
Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part E:
Other Procurement Procedures National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent 
or less per contract and $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
Part F:
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part G:
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and equipment costing $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured from the UN 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part H:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  14
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
MCE shall have overall responsibility for supervision of Project 
implementation;
(b)
the Borrower shall maintain the PSCU throughout the duration of the 
Project and shall vest it with the responsibility for implementation of the Project 
through BCA, BCV, CECV, ISCV, INPS, PROMEX and the Chambers of Commerce;
(c)
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the PSCU shall consist of a 
Project Coordinator, assisted by up to three staff, including an accountant, engaged 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
the Project Coordinator shall be responsible for coordination of the 
Project on a day-to-day basis and shall liaise with representatives of BCA, BCV, CECV, 
ISCV, INPS, PROMEX, the Chambers of Commerce and the donor community and shall report 
directly to the Minister for Economic Coordination within MCE; and
(e)
to oversee the training provided under Part A.1 (c) (ii) of the Project, 
the Borrower shall appoint PROMEX as a member of its national training board 
established under the Basic Education and Training Project, Credit No. 2675 CV, 
entered into between the Borrower and the Association and dated February 24, 1995. 
2.
Throughout the execution of the Project, and commencing in the first quarter 
after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through MCE, shall prepare and provide to the 
Association, within 30 days of the end of each quarter, quarterly progress reports on 
the implementation of the Project, including a review of compliance with the agreed 
Project monitoring and performance indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
3.
In each year throughout the execution of the Project, commencing 12 months after 
the Effective Date, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare an annual work program for each component of the Project, 
including: (i) an evaluation of the previous year’s work program to December 31 in 
each year, (ii) a procurement plan for the coming fiscal year, (iii) a review of the 
agreed monitoring and performance indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement and a statement of monitorable objectives for the coming year, together with 
a program of activities to be undertaken to achieve these objectives, (iv) detailed 
budget and financing plans, and (v) training plans;
(b)
provide its proposed annual work program together with an evaluation of 
the previous year’s program, prepared in accordance with (a) above, to the Association 
for its review, comment and recommendations by no later than March 1 in each year; and
(c)
thereafter, revise its annual work program to take into account the 
Association’s comments and recommendations in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
4.
(a)
By no later than six months after the Effective Date, and in each year 
thereafter, the Borrower, in conjunction with the Association, shall undertake yearly 
reviews of the progress made in Project implementation and implementation of the 
Program.
(b)
No later than 30 days prior to each yearly review, the Borrower shall 
provide the Association with a draft progress report on Project and Program 
implementation throughout the year.
5.
(a)
On or about a date not less than 24 months and not more the 34 months 
after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter 
referred to as the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, among other 
things, an assessment of:
(i)
progress made in implementation of the Program;
(ii)
work programs and budgets prepared to date;
Page  15
(iii)
training provided under the Project;
(iv)
procurement under the Project; and
(v)
the status of Project monitoring indicators as set forth in 
Schedule 6 of this 
Agreement.
(b)
No later than 30 days prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of Project and 
Program implementation.
(c)
No later than 30 days after the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project and the Program, having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review, and thereafter implement such program. 
6.
The Borrower shall cause its two Chambers of Commerce to adopt and utilize, 
throughout the duration of the Project, a cost-sharing formula, acceptable to the 
Association, governing the payment of consultancy fees for assistance provided to 
private domestic enterprises. 
7.
By no later than March 1997, the Borrower shall submit a time-bound action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the privatization of the Borrower’s two commercial 
banks (BCA and CECV).
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the studies included in Part A.1 (a) (v) of the Project, under 
terms of reference and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, promptly after the completion of each such 
study, a copy of the findings and recommendations of the study;
(c)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
findings and recommendations; and
(d)
thereafter implement the recommendations of the studies in a manner, and 
in accordance with an action plan, satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  16
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Page  17
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Key Performance Indicators
Private Sector: 
1.
The increased export of goods and services by domestic and foreign enterprises; 
2.
construction of physical facilities (factory shells) for the establishment of 
foreign enterprises; 
3.
increased volume of investments in the manufacturing, fisheries and service 
sectors; 
4.
increased volume of investments in the tourism sector and an increase in the 
number of tourists visiting Cape Verde; 
5.
improved profitability of beneficiary enterprises; and 
6.
increased registration of ships.
Financial Sector: 
1.
Increased security and reliability of the payment system; 
2.
availability to BCV of reliable and current financial and economic information 
to support monetary and fiscal policy; 
3.
monitoring of the implementation of the regulations governing financial 
transactions (supportive of the growth and soundness of financial institutions); 
4.
increased ability of financial institutions to obtain current and dependable 
information to support the credit evaluation process; 
5.
privatization of CECV and BCA as per the timetable agreed in the Program; and 
6.
supervision of financial institutions by BCV (banking and insurance) conducted 
on a regular basis.
