Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13783-IN
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
DECEMBER 12, 1994
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS
ACC/SCN -    Administrative Committee on Coordination/
Sub-Committee on Nutrition
CDC      -    Center for Disease Control Atlanta
CNC      -    Community Nutrition Center
CNW      -    Community Nutrition Worker
DEAR    -    Department of Evaluation and Applied Research
HSC      -    Health Sub-Center
ICDS    -    Integrated Child Development Services
IDA      -    International Development Association
IEC      -    Information, Education, Communication
IMR      -    Infant Mortality Rate
MIS      -    Management Information System
NCHS    -    National Center for Health Statistics, USA
NMP      -    Nutritious Meals Program
NNMB   -    National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
NSSO     -    National Sample Survey Organization, India
SAR      -    Staff Appraisal Report
SRS      -    Sample Registration Survey
TINP     -    Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operatiron Evaluation
December 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Impact Evaluation Report on INDIA
Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Credit 1003-IN)
Attached is the Impact Evaluation Report on INDIA-Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
Project (Credit 1003-IN) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .....................................................
BASIC DATA SHEET ................................................
EVALUATION  SULMMARY   .                    .........................................    iv
1. INTRODUCTION  .................................................   1
A. The Study ....................................................   1
B. The project and its setting .............                ...........................   2
2. EVALUATION  RESULTS  .                     .........................................   5
A. Was service delivery adequate to have warranted
an impact?  ..............................................    S
B. Was there a meaningful change in malnutrition levels?  .....                    ............   11
C. How  much of the change is attributable to TINP? ....... ..                     ............   16
D. Who benefitted? ..............................................   18
E. Who participated?  ............................................   18
F. Which program  inputs contributed the most to improvements in  .... ......   19
G. Program  impact on health outcomes               ..............        .................   20
H. Cost effectivenes s.         ............................................   21
I. Sustainability  ................................................    21
3. CONCLUSIONS  ...................                             ............................   23
Lessons learned and not learned in TMNP-   ............................   24
APPENDIX  1. Tables and Figures ...........                      ...........................   27
APPENDIX  2 ....................................................                                         45
LIST OF REFERENCES .............................................. 49
ANNEX  1. Comments from  the Borrower  ................................   53
The report was prepared by Ronald G. Ridker (Task Manager) and Meera Shekar
(Consultant). Pilar Barquero provided administrative support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance Of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
PREFACE
This is a report on an impact study of the first Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
Project (TINP-I), for which Credit 1003-IN in the amount of US$32.0 million was approved
on April 15, 1980. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1989, two years behind schedule. It
was almost fuDly disbursed, the last disbursement made on October 17, 1989.
The Project Completion Report was submitted to the Board on January 9, 1991.
Because of its high quality and completeness, OED did not audit this project. It was selected
for an impact evaluation report because of its innovative character, the availability of data and
its relevance for future operations.
The report is based on statistical analysis of service records, two field trips, a review
of the documents and literature on this project, and interviews with beneficiaries and relevant
Bank and Government officials. The cooperation and assistance of the TINP Project
Coordination Office and of the India Division of the Bank is gratefuly acknowledged.
A draft of the Impact Evaluation Report was sent to the Borrower for comments on
July 19, 1994. One set of comments was received and has been taken into account as
appropriate, in the text.






iii
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                                     Appraisal              Actual            Actual as % of
Expectation                             Appraisal Estimate
Total Project Costs (USS million)                          66.40                 81.00                  122
Credit Amount (USS million)                                32.0
Disbursed                                                                      31.97
Cancelled                                                                       0.03
Institutional Perfonnance                                                     Substantial
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Appraisal Estimate (USS million       2.90    6.80   12.45   20.95   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00
Actual (USS million)                  1.13    4.63    7.91   10.99   16.74   22.66   26.14   28.41   30.16   31.98
Actual as % of Appraisal             38.97   68.09   63.53   52.46   52.31   70.81   81.69   88.78   94.25   99.94
Date of Final Disbursement:         October 17, 1989
PROJECT DATES
Planned                    Revised                    Actual
Identification                                                                                     May 1978
Preparation Mission                         September 1978                                         October 1978
Appraisal Mission                           March 1979                                             July 30, 1979
Credit Negotiations                         August 1979                                            Febrary 27, 1980
Board Approval                               September 1979                                        April 15, 1980
Credit Signing                                                                                     May 12, 1980
Credit Effectivenes                                                                                August 5, 1980
Credit Closing                               March 31, 1987             March 31, 1989             March 31, 1989
Project Completion                          June 30, 1986               March 31, 1989             March 31, 1989



iv
STAFF INPUT (STAFFWEEKS)
Fiscal Year:  73   75   76   77   78   79   80   81   82   83   84   85   86   87  88   89  90   92  Total
Preappraisal  .0   1.1  .5     1  49.7 69.2  3.4                                                                124.0
Appraisal                                      94.0                                                             94.0
Negotiations                                   8.3                                                               8.3
Supervision                                    37.6 28.7 41.9 26.4  31.6 22.5 54.0 31.4 5.9  1.6  5.7  .2  287.4
Other                               5.3  1.3  5.7                                                                12.2
Total        .0   1.1  .5   .1  55.0 70.5 149.0 28.7 41.9  26.4  31.6 22.5 54.0 31.4 5.9  1.6  5.7  .2  525.5
MISSION DATA
Month/Year                    No. of    Days                  Specialization             Performance Rating   Types of
Person   in Field               Reprmsented'                    Statugb         Problcms'
Through Appraisal:
May 1978                         9        21             NTR, AGR, ECN, ARC
August 1978                      1        19                      NTR
October 1978                     6        28          NTR, AGR, ECN, HLT, COM
March 1979                       8        21                NTR, ECN, HLT
July 1979                        7        21             NTR, ECN, HLT, ARC
Appraisal through Board
Approval:
January 1980                     2        7                       NTR
Supervision:
May 1980                         4        15                NTR, MSP, ARC                         I              M,P
November 1980                    4        15                NTR, HLT, COM                         2               M
July 1981                        4        IS                NTR, M&E, HLT                         2              M,P
April 1982                      4         14                NTR, HLT, M&E                         2               M
October 1982                    2         13                  NTR, M&E                            2              T,M
June 1983                        5        16            NTR, COM, ARC, M&E                        2              T,M
October 1983                    4         11            NTR, COM, ARC, M&E                        2               M
May 1984                         5        15             NTR, M&E, ARC, HLT                       I              T,M
March 1985                       S        15               HLT, M&E, ARC                          2               M
September 1985                  4         13                HLT, ARC, NTR                         2               M
June 1986                       4         14             HLT, NTR, ARC, ECN                       2
December 1986                    3        10                HLT, ECN, ARC                         2               M
May 1987                         3        14                  MTR. HLT                            2               M
Febniary 1988                   2         10                   NTR, ECN                           2
a. NTR = Nutrition Specialist; AGR   Agriculturist; ECN = Economist; ARC = Architect; HLT = Health Specialist;
COM  = Communications Spocialist; MSP = Managcment Specialist; M&E = Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist
b. I = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems
c. M  = Managemdnt; T = Technical; P = Political



v
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    This document reports on the results of  3.    The study focuses mainly on the nutrition
a study of the impact of the first Tamil Nadu   and health impacts on children and relies mainly
Integrated Nutrition Project, for which Credit  on statistical analyses of a large representative
1003-IN in the amount of US$32 million was ap-  sample of service records from CNCs covering
proved by IDA in 1980. The project was com-   the period 1982 to 1990. Project monitoring da-
pleted in 1989, two years later than planned, by  ta, a field visit, interviews, and a review of the
which time nearly all planned inputs, plus some   literature were also used to reach its conclusions.
additional elements made possible by utilizing   The results are organized around a series of
the foreign exchange 'savings" resulting from de-   questions which serve as the outline for this
valuation of the rupee, had been put in place.  summary.
The credit was almost fully disbursed.
Was service delivery adequate to have war-
2.    The overall goal of the project was to  ranted an impact?
improve the nutritional and health status of pre-
school children, primarily those 6-36 months old,  4.    For growth monitoring and nutrition in-
and pregnant and nursing women. For this pur-  puts, the answer to this question is yes. While
pose, a package of services was provided: nutri-  enrollment of 6-36 month old children was less
tion education, primary health care, supplemen-  than desired (about 77 percent, largely because
tary on-site feeding of children who were severe-   of difficulties in reaching families in outlying
ly malnourished or whose growth was found to   hamlets'), once they were enrolled monthly
be faltering, education for diarrhea management,   weighing was fairly regular and systematic (in
administration of vitamin A, periodic deworming,   1986, 82 percent of the maximum, a figure that
and supplementary feeding of a limited number  compares very favorably with other efforts to use
of women. A principal characteristic of this pro-   growth monitoring). Other indicators suggest
ject was the use of growth monitoring through   that the procedures laid down-e. g., for begin-
monthly weighing of all children 6-36 months   ning and ending supplementary feeding, provid-
old to target delivery of these nutrition and  ing educational inputs, encouraging community
health services to needy children and to serve as   participation, and keeping accurate records-
an educational device for mothers. Indeed, this   were carefully followed. Leakage of supplemen-
project was the first large-scale use of growth  tal food to non-participants (i.e., by reducing
monitoring for this purpose. Project funds were   beneficiary food intake at home) was probably
utilized, among other things, to establish, equip  small.
and operate some 9,000 Community Nutrition
Centers (CNCs) and 2,000 new health sub-  5.    For health inputs, the answer is no. Ex-
centers in 173 of Tamil Nadu's 373 rural blocks   cept for immunization, target levels of imple-
(an administrative unit covering a population of  mentation were not achieved, record keeping
about 100,000).                            was less reliable, and procedures were not as sys-
tematically followed.2



vi
6.    The data were analyzed for three points  elasticity measure estimated from other studies.
in time: 1982, 1986 and 1990. While all service   In each case the comparisons are favorable to
delivery indicators improved between 1982 and   TINP. Roughly averaging the figures together
1986, a number of them deteriorated between   suggests that between one half to three-fourths
1986 and 1990. This peak and decline pattern is  of the decline in malnutrition in TINP areas was
most likely explained by a decline in perform-   due to TINP and other nutrition programs ope-
ance resulting from low morale created by uncer-  rating in the TINP areas.
tainties in 1989 and 1990 about whether and in
what form the project would continue. Once the   10.   Although the NMP operated in all dis-
follow-on project, TINP-II, started, performance  tricts in which TINP operated, the study identi-
appeared to pick up.                         fies a variety of factors which suggest that this
nutrition program cannot explain much of the
Was there a meaningful change in malnutrition   observed improvements in nutrition within the 6-
levels?'                                     36 month age group.
7.    The data indicate a statistically significant   Who benefitted?
improvement in weight-for-age over the period
1982 to 1990. They also indicate a steady drop   11.   Improvements in nutrition status were
in malnutrition rates for all ages included.  found to have occurred across the board, regard-
These improvements were continuous over time;  less of gender, caste, age groups, and income
they did not follow the peak and decline pattern  levels. There is some indication that lower caste
found with service delivery indicators.      individuals and higher income groups benefitted
more.
How much of the change is attributable to
TINP?                                        Who participated?
8.    The observed nutritional improvements  12.   Slightly more boys participated than girls,
can be attributed to TINP if the effects of other  the participation of scheduled caste children in-
factors that might explain the improvements can   creased from 37 to 42 percent, and the average
be separated out. This was attempted in two   age at enrollment declined over time. The last
stages, first comparing changes within TINP dis-  two of these findings suggest an incre,asing capa-
tricts with changes that occurred in non-TINP   city of the program to enroll the most needy.
areas, and second, considering the differential
impact of other programs operating within TINP   Which program inputs contributed the most to
areas - the one of interest here being the   improvements in nutritional status?
Nutritious Meals Program (NMP).
13.   Multivariate analysis suggests, among
9.    Unfortunately, there are no pure control   other things, that frequency of weighing, younger
areas that could be used to compare with TINP   age of enrollment, and immunization were statis-
areas.4 Instead, the study relied on aggregate  tically significant while deworming and Vitamin
data on nutrition status gathered for other pur-   A inputs were not.
poses in nearby districts, data for TINP areas for
the period before TINP was implemented, base-   Cost effectiveness.
line data available at the start of TINP in each
set of blocks5, and information from other large-   14.   Available evidence suggests that TINP-I
scale nutrition interventions. In addition, an   has lower costs per capita and per beneficiary
estimate of the effect of income changes on nu-  than other nutrition projects that are not nar-
trition was made for the TINP areas, using an   rowly targeted. It also suggests that benefits in



vii
terms of reduction in severe malnutrition are   targeting with clear entry and exit rules can be
greater.                                               made to work as planned - keeping costs down,
reducing dependence on feeding, and serving,
Sustainability.                                        along with growth monitor-ing, as a powerful
educational tool. All this can be accomplished
15.    On financial and institutional grounds,   with acceptably small leakages and costs. Most
the project seems sustainable (though some qua-    important, the education provided can induce
lifications must be noted). But the most impor-    permanent changes in mothers' behavior that
tant dimension has to do with permanent behav-    positively  affects their children's health  and
ioral change. Are women internalizing TINP's    nutritional status.
messages so that the program can eventually be
phased out without loss of nutritional and health    17.    The key to TINP's success has been the
status?  There are only a few signs available-    great care exercised in planning and execution of
knowledge and attitude surveys, extent of breast-   its process elements: the careful selection and
feeding and percent of children requiring feed-    training of CNWs, detailed work routines, heavy
ing.    These  are  all moving  in  favorable    emphasis on   intensive and supportive super-
directions.   Of more  significance would  be    vision, efforts to gain community support, em-
evidence that nutritional and health status of   phasis on accurate monitoring and use of the
younger siblings of children who were once in    data gathered in trouble-shooting and feedback,
the program  and of new mothers and their chil-    and so on. The areas where TINP-I failed-im-
dren are improving. Unfortunately, analysis of    plementation of an effective health program and
such evidence was not possible within the scope    integration of the nutrition and health compo-
of this study.                                         nents -were precisely those where less attention
was paid to process issues.
Conclusions
18.    The study concludes with a brief review
16.    This study should allay concerns some-    and evaluation of the changes made in the pro-
times voiced about the practicality of successfully    gram from TINP-I to TINP-II. It finds many of
operating a large-scale nutrition and health pro-    the changes to be positive but a few to be ques-
gram based on growth monitoring and narrowly   tionable given the results of this study.  In
focussed targeting of short-term  supplemental    particular, it questions changes in supplemental
feeding. Women can be induced to bring their   feedings rules and supervision-worker ratios and
children  in for weighing on  a regular basis.   notes that evaluation capacity, which was weak
Short-term  feeding based on narrowly focused          in the first project, has not improved.
1. Difficulties which the follow-on project, TINP-II, is making special efforts to overcome.
2. Special efforts are being made in TINP-II to correct these problems and to more thoroughly integrate the health and nutrition
components-apparently, with some success.
3. Data on other health indicators, in particular morbidity and mortality, was found to be so poor that plans to analyze them were dropped.
4. Cases where none of the TINP interventions was provided but weight gain is nevertheless known may be impossible to find, since
improved nutrition may result from the attention to nutrition triggered by the weighing itself. An experiment in which all TINP inputs
other than nutrition supplements is provided has been proposed and should shed some light on this issue. The best that can be done
is use aggregate data from non-TINP areas.
5. The initiation of TINP was staggered over time. A comparison of nutrition status at the beginning of each new group of block can
help indicate what might have happened in the absence of TINP.






1
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
1. INTRODUCTION
A. The Study
1.1       This is a study of the impact of the first Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
(TINP-I), for which Credit 1003-IN in the amount of US$32.0 million was approved by IDA
on April 15, 1980. At the time of appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$66.4
million. The Credit became effective in August 1980 and closed March 31, 1989, two years
later than planned. This extension was made to utilize the foreign exchange "savings' made
possible by devaluation of the rupee for additional investments; it also allowed for
continuation of operations until negotiations on the future course of the TINP program were
completed. Actual project costs amounted to US$81 million and the amount of the IDA
Credit disbursed was US$31.97.
1.2       This study attempts to answer the following questions about this project: (1) What
has been the impact of this project on the nutrition and health status of the target population,
independent of other factors that have influenced the outcome? To answer this question, one
should look not only at output indicators, but at changes in input or process indicators, to
make sure that these inputs were capable of generating the desired effect. Hence (2), was
service delivery of sufficient quality to make it plausible that positive impacts could have
resulted?' (3) Which program inputs created the impacts? (4) Who were the beneficiaries?
(5) Who were the participants? (6) How cost effective has this project been? And (7), are
there any signs that the results achieved so far are likely to be sustainable?
1.3       While much has already been written about TINP-I,2 because of data and
analytical limitations, none of the previous studies does justice to these questions. This study
comes somewhat closer to providing adequate answers by extending previous analyses in three
respects. First, it includes a review of progress since 1986, the date of the last large-scale
evaluation, undertaken when the project was originally scheduled to end. Second, while all
but one of the earlier studies relied on aggregate data (and the one that did not was limited
to a small geographical area), this study utilizes a large, representative sample of individual
beneficiaries for its analysis. This permits application of more appropriate statistical
1. This question will be discussed first, to give the reader a picture of bow the program operated before continuing with the
evaluation.
2   Ile Project Completion Report, dated December 28, 1990, reiews most of what was available at that time. It also
provides a particularly good description of the procedural aspects of the project. Findings from other studies ae reviewed
in this report.



2
techniques and investigation of a number of questions not discussed by previous studies -for
example, which project components were responsible for the observed impacts and who
benefitted the most from the program. And third, it goes farther than previous analyses in
attempting to separate out the influence of other determinants of nutrition and health in the
area. Because of data shortcomings - the absence of equally good data from non-TINP areas,
lack of reliable and extensive data on health inputs and outputs, and changes in data
reporting and recording quality over time-the analysis still leaves much to be desired. But
sufficient progress has been made to warrant this detailed report of findings.
1.4       Ideally, three criteria should be used to judge a program's impact:  efficacy,
effectiveness, and efficiency. Efficacy refers to the ability of the project to produce the
desired impact among those who have participated in the project; Le., do the project inputs
produce the desired effect? This is addressed through the primary data analyzed in this
report. Effectiveness is a function of efficacy and project coverage; i.e., in what proportion
of the target population has the desired effect been produced? This issue is addressed to a
limited extent using data from previous evaluations, as weli as independent data sources.
Efficiency is concerned with costs of this delivery mode compared to alternatives. This is also
addressed to the extent that data permit.
1.5        The principal body of data utilized in this study comes from the service delivery
records of a sample of Community Nutrition Centers-herein called the 100-CNC sample.3
Information from these records on individual children was extracted for three points in time:
1982 (the start of TINP-I in several districts), 1986 (when the project was originally supposed
to close) and 1990 (just before the start of TINP-II). In each of the CNCs selected, all
children enrolled in the project during these three periods were included. The CNCs were
randomly selected from three strata: districts in which the program started in 1982, in 1983
and in 1985. Sample sizes vary from 950 to 1,600. Appendix 2 provides more details about
this data set and how the sample was drawn. These data have been supplemented with
information from other evaluation studies4 to round out the analysis and with project
monitoring data to bring the picture up to date.
B. The project and its setting
1.6        By the second half of the 1970s, when TINP began to be developed, there were
a variety of public feeding programs throughout India, estimated to be reaching about 20
million people. The most important of these programs developed into the Integrated Child
Development Services (ICDS) program. Started in 1975, it was still small when TINP was
developed; but by the early 1990s, it covered almost half of the country.
3. The Project Coordination Office randomly selected 100 CNCG from each of eleven district and is in the process of having
all records fiom these CNCs computerized. The sample used in this study was derived from that data set.
4.  Prior to this study, there have been two main sources of data on this project: report from Project Coordination Office
whicb am based on service records, and data gathered by the Directorate of Evaluation and Applied Research (DEAR)
in Its baseline and terminal evaluation survey, the latter undertaken in 1986 when TINP was originally scheduled to end.
Since the DEAR data are based on a representative sample of the whole population located within blocks in which TINP
operated, they differ somewhat from Project Coordination Office data which include only participants



3
1.7      The problem of malnutrition was particularly severe in the state of Tamil Nadu.
During the second half of the 1970s, the Government of Tamil Nadu commissioned studies
that indicated that average daily food intake in the state was amongst the lowest in India.
Eighty-five percent of children under six were found to be less than 90 percent of
recommended body weight, and malnutrition was associated with 75 percent of the deaths of
0-3 year old children. The most seriously affected groups were weaning children (6-18
months), pregnant and nursing mothers, and adolescents, especially girls (SAR).
1.8      At the time these studies were commissioned, some 25 different nutrition programs
were operating in the state. Most of these programs were supported by the state government
which at the time was spending nearly US$9 million (in then-current prices) on them. Three-
fourths of this amount was devoted to a school meal program. All together, however, these
programs were reaching only a small fraction of the groups identified as the most vulnerable.
As a consequence, the Government decided to significantly expand its programs. In 1980,
TINP was launched. In 1982, the Government initiated a second major nutrition program,
the Chief Minister's Nutritious Meals Program (NMP), which covered all children two to 14
years old. In 1989, when TINP closed, four major programs were in operation: TINP which
covered 173 of the state's 373 rural blocks in 11 districts,s NMP which covered the whole
state, ICDS which operated in 28 rural blocks and 37 major urban slums, and the Public
Distribution System, which provided subsidized staples to poorer families through a network
of "fair price shops" operating mostly in urban areas. Shortly thereafter, the Government
approached IDA for funding to expand TINP to the remainder of the state (except for three
districts which have only ICDS). The resulting follow-on project, TINP-II, is currently under
implementation.
1.9      Evaluation studies of feeding programs prior to 1980 showed that they had limited
success in reducing malnutrition. The principal reasons for this were believed to be the
following':
*    These programs reached only a small number of the most vulnerable groups. In
Tamil Nadu, for example, all programs combined were estimated to be reaching
only 10 percent of pre-school children. This result occurred in part because of
limited budgets; but also because, for several of the reasons listed below, the
limited budgets were not utilized as efficiently as they might have been.
*    Many programs were loosely targeted, admitting persons who were not in the most
vulnerable groups.
*    Even when targeted to vulnerable groups-children from birth to three, for
example-some programs provided the same inputs to nourished as well as
malnourished children.
5. A district is an administrative unit subdivided into taluks which are further subdivided into blocks, each block covering
a population of about 100,000.
6.  A good analytical discussion of many of these and related, issues can be found in Odin Knudsen, 1981.



4
*    Even when the program was successfully restricted to the malnourished, vulnerable
children, the intended beneficiary may not have received all the benefits because
of intra-family substitution. On-site feeding can be substituted for food which
beneficiaries would otherwise have consumed at home; and food taken home can
be shared with other family members. While there has been little evidence about
the extent of such substitution, economic analysis suggests that it can be substantial
among poor groups.
*   Most programs relied on a wclinic' approach without active outreach activities. The
percent of needy persons receiving nutrition supplements in such cases was found
to be quite limited.
*    Insufficient attention was given to complementary factors that are necessary along
with feeding to make a sustained improvement in nutritional status: education of
mothers, and health inputs such as treatment for diarrhea and worms, etc.
*   The supplement given was sometimes too bulky (low energy density) and
unsuitable for consumption by very young children.
The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project resulted from the search to find ways to
overcome these problems.
1.10     The overall goal of the project was to improve the nutritional and health status of
pre-school children, primarily those 6-36 months old, and pregnant and nursing women. Four
targets were specified: (1) a 50 percent reduction in protein-energy malnutrition from a level
at appraisal of about 60 percent; (2) a 25 percent reduction in the infant mortality, then about
125 per 1,000; (3) a reduction in Vitamin A deficiency in children under 5 from about 27 to
about 5 percent; and (4) a reduction in nutritional anaemia of pregnant and nursing women
from about 55 to 20 percent. Informal project targets for service delivery were of 80-90
percent coverage of target populations.
1.11     To accomplish these objectives, a package of services was provided: nutrition
education and primary health care for pregnant and lactating women and their children,
growth monitoring through monthly weighing of all children 6-36 months old, supplementary
on-site feeding of children who were severely malnourished or whose growth was found to
be faltering, education for diarrhea management, administration of vitamin A, periodic
deworming, and supplementary feeding of a limited number of pregnant and nursing women.
1.12     Some 9,000 Community Nutrition Centers (CNCs), each serving an average of
1,500 people, were eventually established. Each was staffed by a local female Community
Nutrition Worker (CNW) selected, where possible, to serve as an example of a poor person
with healthy well-nourished children. She was assisted by a female helper and supported by
a supervisory cadre consisting of a Community Nutrition Supervisor (responsible for quality
control and trouble shooting) and a Community Nutrition Instructress (responsible for a two-
month pre-service program and regular in-service training). The CNW was responsible for
record keeping, weighing ot children, nutrition counselling, deciding when supplementary
feeding was appropriate, referrals to the health staff as required, oral rehydration therapy,
administration of vitamin A, organizing mothers' working groups and eliciting community



5
participation in project activities. When children failed to appear for weighing at the
appropriate time, she was expected to find out why, encourage the mother to come in, or if
necessary provide the required services in the home. A high supervisor-worker ratio and
intensive on-the-job training were critical design features of TIN{P.
1.13     A central tenet of this project is the notion that most malnutrition is the result of
inappropriate child care practices, as well as, at times income, famine, and non-preventable
health problems. Hence thbe heavy emphasis on education, growth monitoring, and the
provision of supplemental feeding and related interventions only to cases where a problem
had arisen.
1.14     Growth monitoring was a critical element of this strategy. It was the key means
by which interventions were targeted only to problem cases, thereby controlling program costs.
It provided the paraprofessional CNWs with a simple, objective way to decide when
supplemental feeding and other interventions were called for. It was conceived of as an
important educational tool, to explain to mothers why one child was receiving feeding and
another not, and to provide them with objective feedback about how well they were doing
in caring for their children.
1.15     The health component was somewhat less innovative, though equally important in
terms of project costs and potential benefits. It provided resources for construction,
equipment and operating costs for 1600 new Health Sub-Centers (HSCs), both central and
field training facilities, transport equipment, drugs, vaccines and other supplies. Work
routines were designed for health workers to regularly visit CNCs and provide support to the
CNWs. However, these visits often failed to take place as planned and coordination of health
and nutrition activities was weak.
1.16     The project's closing date was extended from March 1987 to March 1989 to fully
utilize the additional project funds mode generated by devaluation of the rupee. In the end,
of the total project costs of US$81 million, the nutrition component absorbed 47 percent of
project costs, the health component 43 percent, communications 6 percent, monitoring and
evaluation 2 percent and project coordination 2 percent. Project funds were used, among
other things, to construct or rent, equip, provision and staff some 9,000 CNCs, 1,600 HSCs,
a number of training facilities, and the Project Coordination Unit. Funds were also made
available for baseline and subsequent surveys, innovative activities and operational research
studies.
2. EVALUATION RESULTS
A. Was Service Delivery Adequate to Have Warranted an Impact?
2.1      Before reviewing the evidence on impacts, it is important to ask whether the
impacts found could plausibly be related to program inputs and activities. Were program
inputs of sufficient quality and quantity to have achieved a positive impact on output?



6
2.2       Unfortunately, this question cannot be answered straight-forwardly since many
indicators that might be used for the purpose have ambiguous interpretations. For example,
a decline in feeding rates taken by itself could be the result of a decline in the adequacy of
service delivery or a sign that mothers are incorporating the lessons of the project and feeding
their children more responsibly. Deworming rates could be lower than targeted because
service delivery was poor, because mothers failed to take advantage of the service or because
worm load was lower than estimated. This study handles such problems by reviewing a wide
variety of performance indicators, focusing on the least ambiguous ones in order to develop
an overall impression of process quality, and then, unless there is independent countervailing
evidence, interpreting information about the more ambiguous indicators in a fashion that is
consistent with that general impression.7
2.3       Participation, growth monitoring, and age of beneficiaries. The project aimed to
enroll all children 6-36 months old in the weighing program within specified districts. The
CNW was expected to go to individual homes to persuade mothers if they did not come in
on their own. According to the terminal evaluation report, about 77 percent of eligible
children were so enrolled (Chidambaram, 1989, p. 52). Interviews indicated that the main
reason (78 percent of households) was the CNCs' difficulties in reaching outlying hamlets, a
problem which TINP-II is making special efforts to overcome. Other reasons included
antipathy to weighing (14 percent) and the feeling that the program was not needed or
appropriate, e.g., because of social status (2 percent). Antipathy to weighing should go down
over time as mothers become more familiar with the program, but there is no evidence to
indicate whether it did.
2.4       The program design called for children to be enrolled in the program at 6 months
and remain until 36 months. As Table A-1 indicates, mean enrollment age was 16.8 months
in 1982, 8.6 months in 1986 and 7.8 months in 1990, suggesting substantial progress in moving
towards this ideal. The figure is unlikely to decline further because of immigration into the
village and the few hard-core cases of refusal to participate. On the other hand, age at exit
from the program, which was almost 34 months in 1982, has declined significantly, to 23
months in 1990. No explanation is available for this unfavorable trend.
2.5       The project also aimed to weigh each child once per month-theoretically, a
maximum of 31 times between 6 and 36 months of age. Table A-1 indicates that in 1986,
children enrolled in the program were weighed, on the average, 82 percent of this maximum,
a figure that compares favorably with similar projects in India and other parts of the world.
However, comparable figures for 1982 and 1990 were 57 and 58 percent. While the first can
be explained by startup problems which were quickly overcome, the latter must indicate some
decline in service delivery quality, at least at the end of the project period. This can be
explained by uncertainties at that time about whether the program would be continued.
7.  In the esample given, there would be less of a problem if there were independent information on malnutrition and growth
faltering rates But if the only data available are on feeding rates, we must look at performance indicators such as the
percent of children weighed, whether CNWs are rigorously and fairly applying the entry and exit rules for feeding, whether
their records are reasonably accurate and complete, and whether food inventories have been adequate to decide how to
interpret a decline in feeding rates.



7
2.6      If this hypothesis is correct, data for earlier and later years (before and after this
period of uncertainty) should be higher, closer to that for 1986. While such data are not
available from the sample used in this study, project monitoring reports covering both the
TINP-I and TINP-Il period indicate that (except for large variations in the first two years and
a fall-off from about mid-1988 to late 1989) there was a steady increase in the percent of
children weighed, from around 85 percent in 1982 to 95 percent in 1993, a finding that is
consistent with the explanation given above (Figure A-1).'
2.7      Supplementary feeding. The rules for determining when to provide supplementary
feeding and when to stop were fairly complex, but nevertheless seem to have been understood
and implemented fairly well.9 For children 6-12 months old, feeding was initiated if a child
failed to gain at least 300 grams per month for two months; for children 12-36 months, four
months of failure to meet this criteria were required. In addition, all children judged to be
severely malnourished (grades m and IV, which roughly means that their weight was less than
60 percent of the norm) were fed a double ration. Once begun, feeding continued once per
day for a minimum of three months (or until age 36 months). If a child gained 500 grams or
more by that time, feeding ceased; otherwise, the child was referred to the health subcenter
and feeding continued until adequate weight gain was recorded.
2.8      Table A-2 indicates that 78 percent of children enrolled in the program were being
fed when the observations were made in 1982. This figure remained the same in 1986 and
decreased to 66 percent in 1990. Those fed for prolonged periods (>180 days) were about
31 percent in 1982, increased to 45 percent in 1986, and declined to 28 percent by 1990.
Figures from other sources indicate lower levels of feeding overall but the same pattern of
decreasing proportion being fed over time. The decline from 1986 to 1990 could be the result
of improved nutritional status or of a deterioration in service delivery. As indicated below,
we believe both factors played a role at least in 1990.
2.9      Other indicators of service delivery for children. Vitamin A, deworming, and
immunization measures were supposed to be provided to all children, regardless of need.
As Table A-2 indicates, the figures for vitamin A and deworming show the same pattem of
increase and decline found for the weighing index, with all figures falling below the 80
percent target. DEAR figures for 1986 (Chidambaram, 1989) report even lower rates, but
this is due to the fact that their sample covered all children in TINP blocks, not just those
enrolled in the program. The shortfall for vitamin A is likely to be related to the erratic
supplies of vitamin A in India during the period. Health referrals followed the same peak and
decline pattern. Of these measures, only immunization rates continued to rise over time and
achieved the 80 percent targeL Figures from DEAR as well the project monitoring figures
are very similar.
2.10     Services for pregnant and lactating women. The 100-CNC data-set does not
provide much information on these services. Some data on these indicators, derived largely
from DEAR terminal evaluation reports, and to a lesser extent from the project monitoring
data, are discussed here.
8.  Data for 1993 indicate a significant decline in the percent weighed. This may be the result of phasing in new TINP-II
amas, but this question has not been explored.
9.  Under TINP-II, the decision was made to reduce this complexity. See dicuion in Part 111.



8
2.11      Antenatal registration was about 52 percent at terminal evaluation as against the
target of 80 percent. Monitoring data give a result only slightly higher. The quality of
antenatal is generally considered to have been poor. Immunization against tetanus among
pregnant women was unsatisfactory with 45 percent coverage and improper administration,
including more than required doses in about six percent of cases. Surprisingly though, the
same report gives tetanus toxoid immunization rates among lactating women at over 80
percent. Distribution of iron and folic acid tablets was low (only about 18 percent received
adequate quantities), and quality of the tablets was found to be sub-standard. Further, no
change in place of delivery is reported over the life of the project. Birth-weight data are not
reported by DEAR or the monitoring wing since these are both scanty and of unsure quality.
2.12      Recruitment, training and supervision of workers. These are among the best
features of TINP. CNWs and these supervisors were recruited from their communities. This
was in contrast to other development programs in India wherein administrative staff at various
levels are transferred to these positions (often at the end of their careers when motivation
is low). In general, they were supposed to be selected from amongst poorer women with
healthy, well-nourished children, so they could demonstrate what is possible with limited
resources. Considerable care appears to have gone into this selection process.
2.13      The training provided to these women was substantial-60 days preservice and two
days every two months inservice -and generally judged to be of high quality. Work routines
were carefully specified to ensure that the workers knew exactly what was expected of them
and were not overloaded. Supervisors served more as mentors and facilitators than as
enforcers of regulations.
2.14      Community participation. According to the SAR, community participation was
supposed to play a major role in TINP. If one means by that term, community involvement
in decision making, TINP was very deficient." Like most projects in India, the locus of
decision-making lay outside the village. On the other hand, the project was designed to elicit
community cooperation and involvement. This was to be done, among other ways, by asking
the community to nominate CNWs, and by establishing women's working groups for, among
other things, production of the food supplement, and children's working groups for the
communication of nutrition and health related messages. Field observations suggest that
these groups are operating in most communities - in some with considerable enthusiasm - and
that they are serving to provide mutual support and reinforcement of the messages. Using
women's groups to produce food supplements has not worked well.
2.15      Moreover, failure to involve local communities in decision making does not
necessarily mean that decisions were taken from a distance and imposed uniformly without
knowledge of local conditions and preferences, as often happens in national programs. The
fact that this program was state owned and operated and that the Management Information
System (MIS) and supervision systems were designed to obtain and feed back operational
information rapidly helped to ensure the decision makers were in close touch with what was
happening in the field.
10.   According to Madan (1987), community participation is a situation in which "... the community is involved in the project
to such an extent that all initiatives come from the people, including making proposals for improvement of health,
converting these proposals in to concrete plans, and participating in implementing and evaluating them." Usag such
a definition, Shrimpton (1989) concluded that TINP compared unfavorably with comparable projects in other parts of
the world.



9
2.16     Communications.  Some of the innovations in communications include the
women's working groups and the later experiment with the children's working groups. Both
of these concentrated on inter-personal communications, which was the strongest component
of the TINP communications strategy. However, evaluation of these efforts suggest that while
these groups served well to educate members, their reach outside the groups was minimal.
Interpersonal education efforts by TINP workers were much more effective channels of
communication as evident from beneficiaries' understanding and appreciation of the project,
its objectives, and strategies.
2.17     Educational materials produced and used under this component include films,
posters, pamphlets, and folk theater. The impact of the communications component was not
evaluated in the project evaluation studies. The 100-CNC data-set analyzed here also
excludes any data on communications/Information, Education, Communication (IEC) inputs
or impact. A study conducted by a TINP consultant on the reach of media materials
demonstrated that posters and wall paintings had the greatest reach, while the use (and
therefore reach) of films was minimal. It was also suggested that television be explored as
a medium for communication/education in view of its rapidly expanding reach in rural Tamil
Nadu.
2.18     The TINP project newsletter was a successfully implemented and well appreciated
communication channel that did much to ensure that project information was shared with
functionaries at all levels. This sharing-caring attitude was one of the underpinnings of the
success of the project. The project news-letter has continued since.
219      Leakages of supplementary food. Knudsen (1981) has outlined three sources of
leakages in a supplementary feeding program - i) intra-family leakages from food either directly
or indirectly being shared by other members of the family, u) income-group leakages occurring
when children in the program are not malnourished and are from families with sufficient
income to feed their children, and iii) income leakages where the family's cost of participation
in the program (for example income lost in bringing children to the CNC) reduces the net
value of the food transfer. He also concludes, on the basis of his review, that in on-site, full
feeding programs, losses through these leakages are less than in partial feeding programs
(such as the one in question). Primary data on these issues are not readily available. Instead,
an effort is made here to review these issues in the context of the design and implementation
of TINP.
2.20     Intra-family food leakages due to sharing with family members are likely to be small
in TINP, given the on-site feeding strategy. Some food-sharing with older siblings has,
however, been observed when younger siblings are brought to the centers by them. Income
group leakages are also unlikely, given the tight targeting strategies for supplementary
feeding. The only scope for income leakages is through inefficient application of feeding
entry and exit criteria by workers, or through pressurization of workers to feed the non-needy.
Given the quality of training, constant re-training, and efficient supervision, the former is
implausible. There are some chances for workers feeding some non-needy children under
pressure from parents or influential members of the community. But TINP's focus on
promulgating the supplementary food as a short-term corrective measure has been successful
in reducing the focus from its income-transfer potential to the education potentiaL The
supplementary food therefore is commonly viewed as an educational tool and less as a
supplement per se.  This conclusion is supported by a recent base-line study on
communications conducted for TINP-II (in TINP-I and new districts) wherein between 91-98
percent mothers from TINP-I areas understood the reasons for supplementary feeding. Even



10
greater emphasis on this concept in the future will contribute to a further reduction of food
leakages through this channel. Income leakages due to the family's lost opportunity costs
have not been measured. Nevertheless, observations in TINP centers show that many young
children are brought in by older siblings instead of by working mothers. In addition, TINP
centers are usually located within a five-to-ten minute walking distance from the homes - the
exception being far-off hamlets from where program participation has been reported to be
less than satisfactory. For those who live close to the centers, opportunity costs for
participation are small. For those living in far-off hamlets, new strategies are being
experimented with in the follow-on TINP-H.
2.21     Service records, monitoring and evaluation. In 1987, 61 TINP workers were
interviewed to ascertain the availability and condition of weighing scales. All reported that
the scales were continuously available and in good condition. In rare cases of malfunctioning,
scales were borrowed from neighboring centers to ensure uninterrupted weighing. Observers
visiting the project at various times generally report favorably on the accuracy and
completeness of records."
2.22     The CNWs are required to keep these plus numerous other records on participants
and their families and provide periodic reports. These reports are collated, analyzed and fed
back to supervisors as needed. The system for accomplishing this has been judged to be of
high quality', the only criticism sometimes being that the volume of reporting is excessive.
2.23     On the other hand, the use (and to some extent, the generation) of information
required for evaluation is weak. Insufficient attention has been devoted to considering the
special data needs for evaluation purposes and finding ways to institutionalize the process of
gathering and analyzing these data.
2.24     Conclusion. In sum, we conclude that delivery of nutrition services was more thaa
adequate to have created the desired effect. Health-related service delivery was, however,
much below target, and of uneven quality, immunization being the only exception. The
achievements on this count must, however, be shared with the UNICEF-supported Universal
Program of Immunization. Training inputs and the MIS system in TINP were of high quality,
and are likely to have contributed heavily in facilitating service delivery. Community
participation and communication efforts were adequate but could have been stronger.
2.25     Most of the data on service delivery/utilization suggest that improvements occurred
between 1982 and 1986 but that some deterioration had occurred by 1990, immunization
being the only service to continue improving. This deterioration is likely to have been due
to the uncertainty that existed in 1989 and 1990 about whether and in what form the program
would continue, which caused a deterioration in morale and performance. Once the decision
was made to proceed with a second project along the same lines, service delivery statistics
began to improve again, a factor that lends credence to this hypothesis.
11. Some records appear to be suspiciously complete, raising questions about whether some CNWs fill in weights for missed
weighingp by interpolating between actual weighings.
12. See the Project Completion Report and Meera Shekar, 1991.



11
B. Was there a meaningful change in malnutrition levels?
226      The TINP program was initiated in three strata at different points in time: 1982,
1983, and 1984/85. Since the last year for which the sample of 100-CNC data are available
is 1990, the three strata exemplify eight, seven and five years of program operations. Figures
1 to 3 demonstrate how line segments representing mean weights of children as a function
of age (WIA) have shifted over time between 1982 and 1990. These figures, plus the tables
in Appendix 1 from which they are derived, indicate that
*    There has been an improvement in mean weights of sample children over the eight
year period. This improvement is apparent across all three strata.
*   Six-month-old children in 1990 from Stratum One are about 360 grams heavier
than their counterparts in 1982 (a 6.5 percent gain in weight), the year in which
the program started. Corresponding differences at thirty-six months are about 650
grams (a 6.2 percent gain in weight).
*   These differences are statistically significant at all monthly ages between 6 to 36
months.
*    In Strata One and Two, (where the program was initiated in 1982 and 1983
respectively) differences in weights are also obvious between 1982 (or 1983) and
1986. Weight differences between 1985 and 1986 are not apparent in Stratum
Three districts where TINP was initiated in end 1984/early 1985, suggesting that
it may take between one to three years for differences to become evident
Figure 1.
Mean WIS of Sample Chdren in 198Z 1986 and 1990
Stratum 1
8             18              21 3C
120C10   ,   ,   ,  ,   *     *&*        .,  . . ,, .,  ..,, 120C
11000                                     A            lCCCo
Z1000                                                     I icco
i _CX                                                   1
7000                                                    TCCQ
ecoc                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~coca FANW' S
*a * ?,AN WT 10
.500 .5 M   WT 1Si9
e             10              26              se
S13E N MONTI-S



EN U wE Nr HGA4
_ . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S                     [II



13
Figure 3
Mean WIS of Sample Childre in 1985, 1986 and 1990
Stratum 3
6              1d          .  26              36
12.0CO            ~     . I I I . ., II                12000
1 0ooi  11000
[o000                                                     10000
i7000                                                    7000
000                                                  8e000  * NE,  WT 19g0
G   MI WT ise
6o0 0...c O p-N WT 1g8
e              18             26               X6
AGE N MKQNT1f



14
"27       These changes in weights are particularly meaningful in light of the fact that 1987
and 1988 were poor crop years in Tamil Nadu. The shortage of food in those years, taken
by itseI& is lilely to have reduced mean weights of children in 1990, especially those between
18 and 36 months of age.
2.28      Changes in the nutrition profile are portrayed in Figures 4 through &  Figure 4
presents malnutrition prevalence rates as percent deviations in weight from National Center
for Health Statistics (NCHS) reference medians by age. Figure 5 presents the same data in
terms of standard deviations (sometimes called Z-scores) from the standard. While the latter
is preferable,' both are presented because district-level information from other sources uses
the first method. Figure 6 presents a time series drawn from project monitoring data (in this
presentation, grade m  and IV indicate 60 percent or less of NCHS median W/A, grade IL,
60-75 percent, and grade L 75-100 percent of this norm). All three indicate essentiaLly the
same thing, that the percent of children who are seriously malnourished has declined
significantly over time while the percent modestly malnourished and normal has increased.
Fipre 4
Percent Children Above/Below 75% of NCHS Median WIA
Stratwn 1. 1982, 1986 & 1990
so
140
* AC 7- 0_ _M _ * WCA
o ao-78x cr NoC4 NEW-4 W/A
0                                               a eanfw aox CF NCMe UIM4 W/A
1@Sl         1O>Q~
ThE N TlW PFKX'M
13. Bemuse the variance of weight-for-age changes with the age of the child, the standard deviadon dassification is peferred
since it allows for a comparable estimation of nutritional status across ageL For --ampie, 75% of median weight-for-age
may indicate much mon: swvere underweight at age twelve months than at thirty-six months. A weight-for-age Z-.core
calculation obviates this problem by including the change in the variance in the estismtion of the score.



15
Figre 5
Percent QuCrhn Above/Below -2SD WZ4
Strmm 1. 198Z 1986 & 1990
~ - 
~40
U 13or -2 aa W/A
a                                             U BELCW -2 a  W/A
TM~ N TIP FFCAN
Fpgre 6
Percent of TJVP C7dren by Nufon Grades
Project Monitoring Data
40-
30
10
E]   84   85   86   87   88   8s   90   9a   92   93
A KUMAL  -  OAC4E   -  GRAM N        - GR"VI



16
2.29       Tables A-3 and A-4 present W/A data in forms that allow comparisons with data
from other sources. Defining malnutrition as W/A less than 75 percent of NCHS reference
standard indicates that from the beginning of the program in each stratum to 1990,
malnutrition declined by 16.5 (Stratum One), 20.9 (Stratum Two), and 14.4 percentage points
(Stratum Three), equivalent to 2.1, 3.0, and 2.9 percentage points per year, respectively.
Defining malnutrition as W/A of more than two standard deviations below the NCHS
reference standard indicates declines in malnourishment of 1.25, 2.43, and 2.40 percentage
points per year for the three strata. These are substantial rates of decline, unprecedented in
other parts of India and elsewhere in the world where large scale nutrition interventions have
been implemented.
C. How much of the change is attributable to TINP?
2.30       The observed nutritional improvements can be attnbuted only to TINP if the
effects of other factors that might explain the improvements can be separated out. This is
done in two stages, first comparing changes within the TINP districts with changes that
occurred in other (non-TINP) areas, and second, considering the differential impact of other
programs operating within TINP areas-the one of interest here being the noon meal
program.
2.31       Three bases of comparison with changes in malnutrition rates elsewhere are
available. The frr involves data from TINP and non-TINP districts in Tamil Nadu estimated
by the National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau (NNMB). These data (computed from Shekar
et al, 1993) indicating declines in the percent malnourished (more than 75 percent below the
reference median W/A) in three non-TINP districts of 0.26 percent (Thanjavur), 0.79 percent
(Nilgiris) and 1.12 percent (Kanyakumari)"4. These can be compared with the figures given
above for the three TINP strata. They can also be compared with NNMB data for TINP
districts-1.96 percent for Madurai (Stratum One), 1.07 percent for Ramanathapuram
(Stratum Tlwo minus Puddukottai district) and 1.75, 1.61 & 0.83 percent for the three districts
in Stratum  Three (Tirunelveli, Chengalput &  N. Arcot) (see Figure A-2)". Both sets of
numbers suggest that the improvements that occurred in TJNP areas were several times
greater than those occuning elsewhere.
14.  Caution must be exrced in the direct oDmparison of the data fron this study and the NNMB data for two reasons.
Fust, the two data ets are not idential, and data quality and sampling techniques vary between the two. Second, the
estination for TINP arru is based on the eight-year period between 1982 and 1990 while that for non-TINP districts is
bsed on an elken year period between 1979 and 1990. Thi caveat notwithstanding in the absence of any other district-
kvel data for nox-TINP reas, we use these data as abowe for an external comparison of changes in underweight
prevalene.
15. NNMB-estimated underweight rates for each district are consistently bigher than those estimated in this study. Two
factors can explain this discrepancy. Furst, NNMB surveys cover the districts as a whole, while our data are limited to
TINP participants oely (though botb regular & irregular participants are included). Though participation rates are
estimated to be high, some of the discrepancy thereform reflects the diffcrences between program participants and non-
participants within the same districtL In that sense, the NNMB data reflect program effectiveness while results from this
study reflect upon program eftiacy (See par 1.4). Second, NNMB surveys use smaD sample sizes which detracts from
the validity of their resulta Seasonal variatio  may also be involved, but NNMB does not report on the month of
meaurement, thus precJudlng any judgemetnts on that ount.



17
2.32     Second, an interim NNMB survey in 1984 suggests that much of the decline in
underweight prevalence in Tamil Nadu as a whole occurred after 1983 (with practically no
change between 1977 and 1983) - precisely the time when the TINP was underway in several
districts covered by the NNMB surveys. This, despite the fact that NNMB also reported a
decline in average energy intakes between 1979 and 1988/90.
2.33     Third, the Z-scores for the TINP strata can be compared with those derived from
all-India data from other sources indicating that the percent of children more than 2 standard
deviations below the reference mean has declined by roughly 0.7 percentage points per year
in India as a whole over the last decade and by one percentage point per year in South East
Asia during the last 15 years (ACC/SCN, 1992a and b). The figure for South East Asia is
particularly striking because of the rapid rate of economic growth in this region during the
last two decades and the presence there of several large scale nutrition and health programs.
2.34     A sizeable portion of the improvements in nutrition that have occurred throughout
the world have resulted from increases in per capita incomes. Between 1982 and 1990, per
capita GNP in constant prices increased by about 22 percent in Tamil Nadu (Government of
Tamil Nadu, 1991). Applying an elasticity for changes in malnutrition resulting from changes
in income derived from the Second Report on World Nutrition (ACC/SCN, Vol II, pg 111,
1992b), one would expect a 0.66 percentage point annual decline in underweight prevalence
in Tamil Nadu attributable to changes in per capita GNP during this period.
2.35     Roughly averaging the TINP figures together suggests the conclusion that
somewhere between one fourth and one half of the decline in malnutrition in TINP areas is
likely to have occurred in the absence of nutrition programs in those areas. This leaves a
sizeable, potential contribution due to TINP.
236      Could a significant portion of the decline in TINP areas be due to other programs,
in particular the noon meal program (NMP), which was concurrent with TINP in several
districts?' It seems unlikely. First, the NMP caters to children 2-14 years of age,
overlapping with TINP in only the last of the latter's two and one half years of coverage.
The earlier year and a half is the period in which the nutrition literature suggests
supplementary feeding programs are likely to have their greatest effect. Second, this
literature also suggests that the educationlcounselling aspects of these programs are at least
as important as the provision of food per se; but the NMP provides only food. Third, the net
addition to the diet of the participants is likely to be substantially less than the amount of
food provided because they are likely to receive less food at home. Finally, the regression
equations presented in Tables A-10 and A-11 suggest that, other things being equal, children
from NMP blocks were worse off in all years than those from non-NMP blocks. This result
might have occurred because, as indicated in the regression equations of Table 5.1 and 5.2,
participation in TINP was higher in non-NMP than in NMP blocks, at least in two of the
three years investigated.
2.37     These conclusions are further strengthened by the fact that the W/A Z-scores are
similar before and after 24 months of age, suggesting that the NMP does not confer any
additional benefit to the 24-36 month age group (which is covered by both TINP and NMP)
(See Figure A-5). This is especially important in light of the fact that much of the growth
faltering occurs before two years of age, and that after this age, the gap between the
16. Other nutntion-reievant pwgrams in Tamil Nadu such as the ICDS did not overlap geographically with TINP-I.



18
intemational norms and observed growth does not increase, so that once the weight deficit
has set in (before two years), children after two years of age continue to grow at rates that
are similar to the intemational norms. Once again this suggests that the potential benefits
of any intervention may be concentrated in the under-two year age group, and that efforts
such as the NMP which starts at age two and the ICDS which starts at age three are unlikely
to have had a significant impact on child growth.
D. Who benefitted?
238      Tables A-6 - A-7 present data from Strata One disaggregated by gender, caste, age
group and income class. These data are presented as numbers of standard deviations from
the mean (W/A Z-scores).
2.39     Gender. Contrary to expectations, these data indicate that girls were better
nourished than boys at the beginning of program operations. This gap increased slightly ir
the first four years, and then declined in the next four-year period, suggesting that girls may
have benefitted more from the program initially, but that at the end of eight years of program
operation, boys may have benefitted more. Further exploration and analysis may be required
to confirm these findings.
2.40     Caste. Scheduled caste children were worse off as compared with children from
non-scheduled caste families, but they appear to have benefitted more, thereby narrowing the
gap between the two groups over the 8 year period.
241      Age groups. Both the 6-18 and 19-36 month old children show improvements in
nutritional status over time. Differences in nutritional status across age-groups were minimal
at the start of program operations, increased in 1986, and decreased again by 1990. Two
plausible explanations could be given for this result First, the differences observed in 1986
may reflect differences in the effect of the program on different age groups, younger children
benefitting more quickly than older. Second, while younger children may not have benefitted
more than older, food-shortages due to the pre-famine situation in Tamil Nadu in 1986 may
have negatively effected the weights of older children more than younger ones. Additional
analysis using annual data for both age groups would be necessary to decide between these
hypotheses.
2.42     Income'7. While malnutrition is lower at higher income levels, children in all
three categories experienced improvements over time, the highest income category perhaps
benefitting a bit more than the lowest. No significant changes in income distribution are
apparent during the period investigated, so this factor could not have influenced these
aggregate results.
E Who participated?
2.43     Figures A-3 and A4 provide information on the gender and caste composition of
participants in 1982, 1986 and 1990. In each year, about half the participants are male, with
17. Information on incomes comes hom questions asked of mothea by TINP when they fint enroll their children It is not
very acurte since only a ingle gs qucstion about monetary income was included.



19
a slight increase in this proportion over time. When compared with the underlying sex ratio
for rural Tamil Nadu in 1981 and 1991, these data suggest that the participation of male
children was higher than that of females. This complements the finding that boys benefitted
more from the project than did girls.
2.44     Participation of scheduled caste children remained constant at about 37 percent
in 1982 and 1986, and increased slightly to 41.7 percent in 1990. As earlier noted, the
average age of enrollees declined over time. Both factors suggest that TINP's ability to enroll
needier groups increased over time.
2.45     The multivariate analyses presented in Table A-818 support these findings and add
a number of other points. In 1982, children from cultivator households and from larger
households were more likely to be enrolled. Children from these groups and from poorer
households were more likely to be enrolled at an earlier age, and children from larger
households tended to remain in the program to an older age. In 1986, factors associated with
greater participation were male gender, scheduled caste, cultivator families, middle income
group, large family size, and high parity. Early enrollment was associated with scheduled
caste, low or middle income group, and high parity. Male children, and children from
scheduled castes, laborers, middle income, and large families are more likely to stay in the
program until the full 36 months of age, while others may drop out earlier. In 1990, regular
participation is positively associated with cultivator status, small household size, and high
parity. Gender, income and caste do not seem to be associated with regularity of
participation in 1990. Early enrollment is associated with cultivator status and high parity.
Those likely to stay the longest in the program include female children, non-scheduled castes,
smaller family size, and high parity.
F. Which program inputs contributed the most to improvements in nutritional status?
2.46     Some answers to this question can be obtained from Tables A-10 and A-11 which
present results from multivariate analyses using Z-scores at the time each child left the
program as the dependent variable. The tables suggest:
*    Nutritional status is enhanced by greater frequency of weighing and younger
enrollment in the program, both proxies for more intensive participation in the
program. The effect seems to grow with the age of the program.
*    Complete immunization (BCG, OPV, & DPT) is positively associated with
nutritional status, with the magnitude of the association increasing over time.
*    Deworming and Vitamin A inputs are not significantly associated with nutritional
status in any year (except for Vitamin A in 1980). One explanation for this may
be that the effect of these two inputs is confounded with the effects of program
participation since every child who participated was expected to receive vitamin A
prophylaxis and deworming drugs. However, as the section on health indicates,
service delivery rates were low for these two inputs; the regression results may
indicate these rates were too low to have had a measurable impact.
18. In this tablc, mrgular participation in growth monitoring is taken as a proxy for program participation.



20
The number of days of supplementary feeding has a small, but statistically
significant, negative effect on nutritional status. Consistent with this, program
participation and supplementary feeding days are also negatively related. Not too
much should be read into this finding. While it is obvious from growth charts that
supplemental feeding has a positive effect on W/A, only those with poor
nutritional status are provided with supplemental feeding.
*   As noted above (paragraphs 236 - 2.37), and for the reasons discussed there, the
presence of the NMP does not appear to be contributing to nutritional status in
TIiP areas.
G. Program Impact on health outcomes
2.47     The project's health goals consisted of a reduction in Infant Mortality Rate (IMR)
by about 25 percent, a reduction in vitamin A deficiency symptoms among under fives from
27 percent to 5 percent, and an amelioration of the high prevalence of anemia among
pregnant and lactating women (from 55 percent to about 20 percent).
2.48     DEAR data on health outcomes are scanty and methodologically unsound. For
example, clinical disease prevalence data were collected by non-clinicians, and at different
times of the year, thus introducing observer errors and seasonal biases. Data on infant
mortality are based on far too small sample sizes, and varying methodologies across the
different survey rounds. Nonetheless, these reports suggest tentative reductions in IMR of
12 to 30 percent in different project areas over the life of the project. Data from the
national Sample Registration Survey (SRS) show declining rural IMR trends in Tamil Nadu
State between 1976 and 1989 (from 121 to 80 per thousand live births). A UNICEF report
analyses the SRS data further to conclude that the rate of decline in the rural IMR in Tamil
Nadu is greater than that seen in the country as a whole, and that it is more pronounced
among male infants. Gender discrimination and female infanticide are cited as possible
expZanations. This report also notes that maternal mortality rates in Tamil Nadu (about 2.3
per 1000 births in rural areas) are lower than the national average of around three. Low
birth weight incidence is reported by DEAR to be lower in areas where the TINP has been
operational for longer periods of time.
2.49     DEAR collected some data on prevalence of bitot's spots ( a symptom of vitamin
A deficiency) among children from project districts. These data suggest a consistent and
marked decline in prevalence of vitamin A deficiency over the life of the projecL Data from
the NNMB also indicate a drop in Vitamin A deficiency over this period. However, poor
service delivery reports (due to problems with Vitamin A supplies) do not allow for the
observed changes to be attnbuted to vitamin A prophylaxis. Improvement in dietary practices
as a consequence of nutrition education may be a more likely reason. In the absence of more
concrete data, these conclusions must remain tentative at best. No information is available
on changes in anemia prevalence.
2.50     All of the above data on changes in health indicators are "guestimates' rather than
empirical data. The absence of primary data obviates detailed analyses to segregate the effect
of secular trends and changes due to economic growth. Process evaluation does not present
a plausible case for an impact on these indicators. It is therefore concluded that any observed
improvements in the health indicators is either a consequence of secular trends or economic



21
growth. A small proportion of the observed health improvements may also be attributed to
the nutritional inputs from TINP.
H. Cost effectiveness
2.51     Recurrent costs per beneficiary of TINP have been estimated at US$9.41 for 1984-
85, with about 30 percent going for food'9. In 1988-89, the total financial outlay was of the
order of 130 million rupees, with a beneficiary coverage of 0.64 million children and 0.24
million pregnant & lactating women, thus averaging at about 145 rupees (US$9.50) per
beneficiary per annum'0
2.52     Such figures compare favorably with other programs. A comparison made with
ICDS (excluding its educational components) estimated that on a per capita (per village
inhabitant) basis, TINP cost a bit over half of ICDS and had roughly twice the effect on
severe malnutrition. If only beneficiaries (children and mothers) are considered, ICDS cost
25 percent more than TINP for half of the benefit.2' While no comparison has been made
with the Nutritious Meals Program, the feeding costs of the latter are clearly much greater
and, as indicated in para 2.37, the impact on nutrition is much smaller. While based on many
assumptions that can be questioned, these results are quite plausible. It should not be
surprising that a strategy that helps only the most needy is both cheaper and more effective
than one which aims to help all regardless of need.
I. Sustainability
2.53     Sustainability has financial, institutional and behavioral dimensions of relevance to
this project. These can be put in terms of the following three questions. (1) If external
donors ceased funding, would state or local authorities pick up the slack ? (2) Has sufficient
institutional capacity been created to continue operations at a high level of quality without
further external inputs? (3) Are there signs that women are internalizing TINP's messages
so that the program can eventually be phased out without loss of progress in nutritional and
health status? The answer to all three is a yes.
2.54     Financial sustainability, at the present time, seems assured on two counts. First,
the TINP-II agreement with IDA calls for the Government of Tamil Nadu to finance all the
operating costs of the program in the TINP-I areas; IDA funds are to be used only for
helping finance the expansion of the program into new areas (plus some institutional
development investments that help the old as well as the new areas). This the Government
has been doing regularly since TINP-I ended. These operating costs were estimated to be
Rs 95 million in 1988/89, an amount representing less than five percent of the Tamil Nadu
Government's expenditures on nutrition. Second, while the federal government is committed
to expansion of the ICDS model throughout the country, it expects substantial contributions
from state governments. In recent years, the Tamil Nadu Government has appeared reluctant
to expand ICDS without increased funding from the Center while willing to expand TINP,
19. Berg, 1987.
20. Shekar, ci al, 1992.
21. Dapice, 1986.



22
apparently in recognition of the lower costs involved in providing the TINP package. The
NMP is likely to continue, but is not viewed as an alternative to TINP, especially in view of
the different target age-groups for the two programs.
2.55     But over the longer term, financial sustainability could be threatened by the
growing expense of the NMP. This program enjoys a wide base of popularity and has begun
to be viewed as an entitlement. If some means is not found to curtail growth in its budget,
other programs, including TINP once IDA reimbursements end, run a real risk of being cut.
2.56     Institutional sustainability is more difficult to assess. At the present time, the
program appears to be operating at a reasonably high level of efficiency. Indeed, it is taking
less time to achieve full operational status in new T[NP-II areas than it did when new areas
were added to TIN7P-I. Moreover, some dimensions of the project are now being operated
by more permanent institutional arrangements than was earlier the case. The main case in
point is the establishment of a permanent Communication & Training Center for the project.
Overall, however, the program remains dependent on a few key experienced staff who
command respect and are able to induce a high level of performance.
2.57     Permanent behavioral change. There is evidence coming out of a TINP-II baseline
study of knowledge and attitudes that mothers who participated in TINP-I are significantly
more aware of good nutritional and health practices than those who have not participated.
More significant, there are a few signs of behavioral changes - longer/higher rates of breast
feeding, reduction in the percent of children requiring feeding, for example. It is also
encouraging to observe in a village that was one of the earliest to establish a CNC that an
"adolescent working group" has been formed from former participants in the program. A
more convincing test would be evidence that the nutritional and health status of younger
siblings of children who were once in the program and of new mothers and their children are
improving. While some field data now exists to explore these possibilities, that could not be
done as part of this project because of time and budget constraints.
2.58     But even if it could be demonstrated that permanent behavioral changes are taking
place, villagers, and of course the TINP field staff, both want and expect TINP to continue.
To phase it out would require careful, long term planning. No thought has yet been given
to what this might entail. Even if another five years are required to achieve an acceptable
level of permanent behavioral change, it is not too soon to be thinking about this since some
aspects might best be built in from the beginning - for example, an understanding that external
funds will cease after a certain number of years, at which time the village would have to take
responsibility for program operations if it wants them to continue.
2.59     The results of an experiment planned as part of TINP-II to introduce in a few new
blocks all aspects of the program except for the feeding component should be especially
interesting in this regard. It has for some time been argued that the most important part of
the TINP is not the food but the contact with children and mothers to check on weight gain,
infections, diarrhea, etc., the food serving more as an inducement to get the mothers to bring
the children in. Such an experiment would provide a test of this proposition.



23
3. CONCLUSIONS
3.1      There has been considerable skepticism  about the practicality of successfully
operating a nutrition and health program based on growth monitoring and narrowly focused
targeting of short-term supplemental feeding. And with apparently good reason, since prior
to TINP there has been no successful case of a large, sustained application of these principles.
It is for this reason that a careful assessment of TINP and a detailed quantitative
documentation of its achievements is so important. Prior to this study such documentation
was not available. There have been good qualitative assessments -the PCR is an excellent
example -and limited quantitative assessments, but no study that simultaneously employs a
large representative sample, attempts to control for other factors which could be producing
the outcomes of interest, and quantitatively investigates subsidiary questions such as who
benefits and which inputs were crucial to the outcome that are important for understanding
why this program succeeded where others have failed. This study provides far from optimal
answers, but it takes a significant step in the right direction and in the process (and perhaps
more importantly) has created a data base that can be used to carry the analysis farther=.
3.2      The study should leave little doubt that these principles can be made to work.
Women can be induced to bring their children in for weighing on a regular basis. Short-term
feeding based on narrowly focused targeting with clear entry and exit rules can be made to
work as planned -keeping costs down, reducing dependence on feeding, and serving, along
with growth monitoring, as a powerful educational tool. All this can be accomplished with
acceptably small leakages and costs. And most importantly, the education provided can
"stick' -can induce changes in mothers' behavior that have beneficial effects on their children's
health and nutritional status. The process requires more time than originally thought; but the
progress once made seems likely not to be reversed by a cessation of the program inputs.
3.3      A corollary from this experience might also be drawn, namely that universal feeding
within certain age groups -while perhaps useful as a poverty program -is not necessary to
achieve nutritional and health gains. Indeed, it may be counter-productive in that a given
budget cannot cover as many of the most needy, leakages to other family members reduce the
impact on the target group, and the sustainability is questionable because of the dependency
and expectations that are generated and the lesser educational impact.
3.4      The key to TINP's success in applying these principles is great care in the planning
and execution of process elements of the program, in particular, (1) the careful selection of
CNWs, (2) detailed work routines that are not overloaded and that emphasize seeking women
out rather than waiting for them to show up at the center, (3) heavy emphasis on
training-continuous, regular in-service as well as pre-service, focused on developing skills
rather than learning general principles, (4) intensive, supportive supervision, and (5) a heavy
emphasis on gaining community support and enthusiasm for the project. The areas in which
TINP-I failed - implementation of an effective health program and integration of the nutrition
and health components of the program -were precisely those where less attention was paid
to process issues.
22. This data bae will be made maailable to anyone who wishes to use it. Unfortunately, however, it will not be of much value
without detailed explanatory notes which have not been prepared as yet. Efforts to prepare such documentation will be
made in the near future



24
3.5      Such devotion to detail is not typical in such projects. One reason why it may have
occurred in this project is that the project was owned, developed and executed by local
authorities. It did not come from afar, based on norms applied in standardized ways no
matter what local conditions were present. A second reason is that IDA devoted an
extraordinary amount of staff and consultant time to this project: supervision staffweeks for
TINP-I averaged 34 per year and ranged from 22.5 to 54 per year. Comparable figures today
are less than half this average.
3.6      A concluding comment on the peaking of process data found in this study is in
order. A commonly observed pattern in extension projects of this kind is that efficiency of
the operation goes through three phases: a break-in phase when problems are worked out,
a period of smooth, effective operations, and then a period of some slippage because of
waning enthusiasm and discipline. The peaking in service delivery efficiency observed in this
study-performance in 1986 being better than in either 1982 or 1990-could be explained in
this way. But it can also be explained by noting that 1989/90 were years of great uncertainty
about whether and in what form the program would continue, which seriously affected field
staff morale. This is the most likely explanation because morale and discipline appear to have
picked up again after the decision to proceed with TINP-II was made (at least, this appeared
to be the case at the time of the field visit associated with this study). But additional study
of the data would be necessary to determine just when program efficiency peaked, whether
it was associated in time with period of uncertainty or occurred earlier.
Lssons learned and not learned in TINP-II
3.7      An IDA credit of US$95.8 million was provided in 1991 for an eight year period
to expand TINP in a phased manner to most of the remaining rural population in Tamil
Nadu. The specific objectives of TINP-II include reducing severe malnutrition among 0-36
month old children by 50 percent in new and 35 percent in TINP-I areas, contributing to a
reduction in infant mortality to 55 per thousand live births, and contributing to a 50 percent
reduction in incidence of low birth weights.
Several design features distinguish TINP-II from TINP-I:
*    a change in the target age group to 0-60 months (from 6-36 months in TINP-I); a
new mother-linked child health card is being introduced to establish a link between
births and TINP enrollment; maternal growth monitoring introduced;
*    merger of TINP with the Nutritious Meals Program so that each center is manned
by two workers. One is a TINP-designated worker whose primary duties will be
in health and nutrition, and the second is responsible primarily for the pre-school
education component;
*    changes in the selection criteria for supplementary feeding to include all children in
grade two, three and four of malnutrition, as well as those exhibiting growth
faltering; a modification in the exit criteria for feeding so that all children are fed
until they reach grade one;
*   food supplements for severely malnourished made more calorie dense, and the
concept of new calorie-dense Amylase-rich-foods introduced through nutrition
education;



25
    greater emphasis on the communications component, with special attention to
developing and operationalizing a predefined communications strategy;
concentrated efforts to use the mother-held growth charts for nutrition education;
*    strengthening of health services delivery, including structural changes to facilitate
improved service delivery, greater stress on realistic and pre-defined work
routines; new innovations being attempted to strengthen the referral system; skill-
updating for medical and para-medical workers;
*    greater attention to coordination between health and nutrition service delivery to
maximize synergistic benefits; mechanisms for joint health-nutrition service
delivery better defined, including joint reviews, supervision and training;
*    increased outreach and coverage of beneficiaries to include previously uncovered
pockets; a special 'hamlet-coverage strategy' outlined;
*    reduction of supervisor:field-worker ratio from 1:10 to 1:15, again bringing it closer
to the national ICDS format;
*     changes in the training to match the updated objectives; and
*     a rationalization of the volume of information collected under the MIS system;
number of registers to be filled-in by field workers reduced from thirty one to
seven.
3.8       Most of these changes are positive, resulting directly from lessons learned from the
experience of TINP-L But two are questionable. The most problematic is the relaxation of
entry and exit criteria for supplementary feeding. This modification was apparently made in
response to the limited success of TINP-I in reducing the levels of moderate malnutrition.
This apparent lack of success may be an artifact of several factors including nutritional
classifications, shifts in and out of the different grades of malnutrition2', and overly ambitious
project goals. Moreover, it is not clear that the best way to deal with moderate malnutrition
is to provide more food; it could be, for example, that improved health services or more
intensive education are more cost effective. A better way to have dealt with this situation
would have been to investigate the reasons for the shifts in nutritional status and undertake
operations research to determine the best way to correct the situation (assuming it needed
correction).
3.9       Another issue of concern is the reduction in supervisory personnel. This change
brings the supervisor-to-worker ratio closer to the national average used in ICDS (1:20),
despite the fact that the latter has been identified as too low a ratio for effective supervision.
In addition, ICDS supervisors are expected to play only a regulatory role whereas TINP
supervisors have traditionally been expected to play more supportive, problem-solving and
training roles.
23. Additionally, thc new system is simpler to undertand. But this is not an overriding consideration since, with careful
training, the CNWs proved able to implement the original riks without difficulty.
24. For ccample, even whilc grade two children do move up in to grade one and above, concurrently, grades three and four
may be moving in to grade two, so that the proportion of children in grade two at any time is a function of both of these
factom



26
3.10     These two modifications move TINP-IH away from what this report views as the
primary strength of TEJP-I - narrowly targeted quality care - and is moving the program closer
to the design parameters of other health and nutrition programs in India. To that extent, the
unique value of the TINP-I experience is being diluted.
3.11     Of lesser importance-because it is a problem that is recognized and more easily
dealt with -is a problem resulting from the merger of the TINP and NMP programs. This has
resulted in two village level workers with somewhat overlapping agenda, raising new problems
of coordination.
3.12     Fnally, an error of omission should be mentioned. While TRIP-I developed an
excellent MIS capacity, it failed to develop an adequate evaluation capacity. This weakness
has continued in TINP-IL One indication of this are the problems being encountered in
obtaining adequate base-line surveys for this follow-on project.



APPENDIX 1
27
TABLES AND FIGURES
Tabk A-i. Indicators of Program Participation'
1986             1    5190
No. dma wighed betw   6-36                               17.578                      25.482                 15.565
months ot age (Moa posiblc 31)                           (0Q213, 1609)               (0.190, 1640)          (0263, 1291)
Age at enroiment in to progrm                            16831b                      &644                   7.847
(praded by ap at &fiut weghng)                           (0.209, 1600)               (0.124,1637)           (0.127, 1291)
Age at cit ftm propam (praied by                         33898                       33.672                 22.878
age at last weigng)                                      (Q136, 1600)                (0.143, 1637)         (0273, 1291)
Age of benfidadi                                         19.687                      19.537                 19.199
(Man age in months mesured in June                      (0.239,1106)                 (0.235, 1159)          (0263, 947)
of ech Year)
Not      a. Numbeas in p.retham are standard errao of the meand smple s frz
b. Sin  nrolment -tard tor the rt dme In 198Z and chid   of al ages betw   0-36 montbs we  eoi4, this number wi per
fomce be higher than any that for any subsequent yan



28
Table A-2Z  Indicators of Service Delivey/Utilization
service                                  1982                     1986                  1990
&ffkL.nmPmyf.rdJfor hidw.m
Pact ddW   not fed at aL                                218 U                                             33.6
(243, 193)                 (a3. 7)                (37.0, 30.3)
Dap per dkd fed during ther                              13308                      176.07                11234
psncdpsdon in TP.                                       (3. 7,1600)                 (3AA81637)            (1468, 1291)
% Cidm  fed for <- 90 day during their sy               12.7                        7.S                    11.2
during pertpm in popam                                  (14.9, 10.7)                (93 6-0)              (13.6, 9.1)
% Cadr   td for 91-180 dap during                       34.2                        25.8                  27.6
puddpsdo in the propam                                  (373, 31.3)                 (28.6, 23.1)          (308, 245)
% CWdi  fed for > 180 drys during ther                  31.2                        45.4                  27.6
pardipada_ in the program.                              (34.1, 23)                  (485, 42.3)           (30., 24.5)
V'tamin A                                               45.75                       70.03                  57.18
(% Clemd)b                                              (0.731,1438)               (0.616, 1510)          (0.867, 979)
Deworming                                               42.41                       6637                  51.06
(%  a )                                                 (0.695, 1453)              (0.617, 1513)          (0-958, 932)
Immuniain                                                 69                        786                   83.11
Co ompletely 'munid                                     (65.38 to 59.90,            ('S0.77 to 76.17,     (.8536 to
1600)                      1637)                  80.61, 12.91
Oowth monirng (Pra  N  times weaghd)                    17.553'm0                   2S.481 m              1S.56500*
(0.213, 1600)              (0.190, 1637)          (0263, 1291)
Number of alth dfrfad                                   0928                        1.209                 0.686
(0061, 1600)               (0.8  1634)           (0.062,1248)
No..  a. Numbes in partees are andard error  f the umn and smple sizes, csept whre indiated by an * in wbich case thy Indicate
the 95% confide nintaas and sample sizes
b. Coverage calcuatd, at a ---'-um of six-monthtly dosem of Vitamin A and 4-amothly dame of deworming.
c. Comple primay dosae for DPT, OPV and BCO.
d. Dat an bheth referrr benevd to be at poor quality.



29
Table A-3. Changes in Nubitional Status (75% of NCHS Median)
of Children 6-36 Month Old in TINPAreasa
Total N    Percent Cbldrez Below       Prcent Children Above 75%
75% of NCHS Median          Of NCHS Median Valucs
Values
Stratun 1:
Madurai & Dindigul Anna Districta
June 1982                             1106      67.36 (70.47, 64.07)        32.64 (3588, 29.47)
June 1986                             1159      58.41 (61.64, 55.07)        41.59 (44.87, 38.30)
June 1990                             947       50.90 (54.55, 47.17)        49.10 (52.76, 45.38)
Drp (1982 To 1990)                              16.46%
Stratum 2:
Ramanathapuram & Puddukoztai DISIRICTS
June 1983                             1116      62.46 (65.67, 59.09)        37.54 (40.85, 3427)
June 1986                             1029      52.09 (55.59, 48.52)        47.91 (51.42, 44.35)
June 1990                             50S       41.58 (46.59, 36.59)        58.42 (63.29, 53.28)
Drop (1983 to 1990)                             20.88%
Stratum 3:
Chengaput, Trunevelli & N. Arcot Districts
June 1985                             1319      60.58 (63-57, 57.47)        39.42 (42.48, 3638)
Junc 1986                             1426      59.05 (61.9, 56.05)         40.95 (43.91, 38.01)
June 1990                             996       46.18 (49.75, 42.58)        53.82 (57.36, 50.18)
Drop (1985 to 1990)                             14.40%
a. Figurh in parenthescs rmpresent 95% confidence intervals.



30
Table A-4. Changes in NutWon Stats  (-2 Standard Deviations of NCHS)
of Childr 6-36 Month Old u TIN? Areas
Totd al    PA    Child.. Bbbrw .2          PurmA Chladren Above .2
Standard D    hvWom            Standard Dtvtalons
Stratum 1:
Madurai & Didigul Anna Daricts
1982                                   1106                77.39                           22.61
1986                                   1159                72.56                           27.44
1990                                   947                 67.27                           32.73
Dedine (1982 TO 1990)                                     10.12%
Stratu 2.
Ramanahapuramn & Puddukonai Dbdrias
1983                                  1116                 77.06                           22.94
1986                                   1029                68L51                           31.49
1990                                    505                60.39                           39.61
Decline (1983 TO 1990)                                    16.67%
Strtum 3:
Chengplput, Tuhn,dveiII & N. Arcot Datricsj
1985                                  1319                 74.07                           25.93
1986                 11426                                 74397                           25.03
1990                                    996                62.05                           3795
Declinc (1985 TO 1990)            i     _                 1;02%



31
Table A-5. Changes in Underweight Levels Over Tine of TINP Children, (Stratun I)'
Indkator                    June 192               Jm  196                June 1990
Weight-for-Age Z-Scom            -2.909 (0.032)         -2.520 (0.026)         -23S6 (0.029)
(Diffence)b
(@d-389)              (#d-.164)
(@pc.OOO)            (#p<.OOO)
Weight-for-Age Perceatile         2.457 (0.202)          3.009 (0.239)          4.054 (0.296)
(Diffeten)b
(<fid--SS2)            (d-1L04S)
(@pz .078)            (#p<.000)
Weight-for-Age Percent of Median   69.746 (0.331)       73.742 (0.267)         75.413 (0.295)
(DiffSerce)b
(@d-3.996)            (*d-1.671)
_______________________            _______________         (@ p< .000)            (#pc.006)
a.  Figures in parentheses are sandard ermusot the mean or significance tea
bt  Figures given in June 1986 column is the difference betwen 1982 and 1986. Figur given in June 1990
column is difference betwen 1986 and 1990.
Table A-6. Changes in Nutrtion Status of TINP Children by Gender, Caste & Age-Group,
Strunatu P
Lndkator of Nutridonal          Ju  1982                       Jm                              Jun e 1990
Gender            MAIe           Female           Ma            Femal              Malc           Female
Weight-for-Age Z-Soore -3.011       -2.797           -2.650        -2383             -2.448           -2.250
(Difference)b
(d-214)                        (d-.267)                           (d-.198)
(p<.001)                       (p<.O-O)                           (p<.001)
Caste                 Scheduled    Non scheduled     Scheduled     Non Scheduled    Non Scheduled    Non scheduled
Weight-for-Age Z-Score -3.084      -2.80S            -2660         -2.434           -2.480            -2.267
(Differences)b                      (dM279)                        (d-.226)                           (d-..213)
(P<.OOO)                       (p<.OOO)                           (p<.000)
Monthe of AV          6-1J          19-36            6-U8          19.4              6-lS              19-36
Weight-for-Age Zcore  -2.949        -2.926           -2.409        -2.638           -2368              -2.404
(Differencea)b                     (d-.023)                        (d-.229)                           (d-.036)
I___ __    (jp<-724)                          (p<.000)                           (p<.539)
a. Figures in parenthe   re standard errors of the mean or significance tests.
b. Figures given in June 1986 column is the difference betwee 1982 and 1986. Figure given in June 1990 column is difference between
1986 and 1990.



ii        1 
i  aR-      tut      tUd  [t - 
o  X      g-
i it                     - lb    "   w    M    "    i   i
A A A  A A~~~~[



Table A-8. Program Partic!pation (Number Times Weighed)
Regressed on Non-Program Variables
Model 1: 1982                 Model 2:1986                  Modd 3. 1990                 Model 4:Yean Combined
Indepedent Variabks                    i Eatmate       P-Value       B Estimate       P-Value      B Estimate      P-Value             BP-
Estimate            Value
Gender (2:Fdma1e)                                                      -0.704          058
Cae (1: Non SC#STIMBC)                   -1.151         .013           -1.247          .002                                           4.7S4              .005
Housebold occupatIon   1. Cultiator      +2.337          .000          +2.522           000          +2.391         .002             +2.6S1              .000
2 Labourer         40.480                        4.041                         +0802                            0.196
3. Other
Income Catego    1:<R3000                                              +0.10           .000A
2:30006500                                           +1.607                                                                                           w
3:>-65SO
Houmbod Ae                               +0.474         .000           +0328           .000          *0.92           .000
pariy                                                                  +0.4S8          .011          +1.7S7          000             +0.863              .000
Wheiher Nos-al Prpa@                     +0.195          A63           -0.472          .241          +0.871          .112
operatng i   hUp   (LNo)
Year   1962                                                                                                                          +1.669               000
1916                                                                                                                         +9A68S
1990
bAIme*t                                  15.026                        21.218                        12.4                             12399
R-Squarld                                 .030                          .0                             .063                           0.233
N                                         1594                          1612                          1274                            4506
Noa: 1.   Forced in to equation even when not n   n
2. StatistIalsgificance mumud at P < .05



Table A-9. Program Participation (Number of Times Weighed)
Regressed on Non-Program and Program Variables
Model 1: 1982                 Model 2 1986                   Model 3: 1990                Model 4:Years Combined
Independent Variabks                       Eiate        P-Value       A Estimate       P-Value       A Estimate      P-Value          A Estimate           P-Value
Gcnder (2:Female)                                                       -0.473           .059
Caste (1: Non SCJST/MBC)                                                                                                               +0.514               .010
Household occupation: 1. Cultivator      +1.147           .004                                         +1.412         .022             +1.029               .000
2. Labourer         +0.112                                                       +0.397                           +0.248
3. Other
Income Category   1:<Rs3000
2:3000-6500
3:> =6500
House hold size                          +0.192           .032                                         -0.269          .058
Parity                                                                  +0382            .000          +0.822         .000             +0380                .000
Whether Noon-Meal Progrmm@               +1.685           .000          +0.263           .317          + 1.214         .004             +1.125              .000
operating in villagc (I:No)
Year   1982                                                                                                                            +1.916               .000
1986                                                                                                                            +5322
1990
Program-Reated VariabLs
No. dos Vitamin A reed.                  +1.472           .000          +1.755          .000           +0.432         .000              +1.074              .000
No. times dewormed                       +0.721           .000          +0.684           .000          +1.255         .000              +1.001              .000
No. days fed (total)                     +0.025           .000          +0.011           .000          +0.032         .000              +0.020              .000
Whether immunization complete            +1.281           .000          +2.039          .000           -1.091          .047             +0.947              .000
(2.Yes)
Intercept                                 4.999                         10.529                         5.488                            3.953
R-Squared                                 0.520                          0.501                         0.506                            0.592
N                                         1454                           1551                           1164                            4181
No=:-. 1. @ Forced in to equation even when not significant.
2. Statistical significance assumed at P < .05



Tabk A-10. Nutiion Status (Z-Score) Regressed on Non-Program  Variables
Model 1: 1982                Model 2 1916                 Model 3: 1990               Model 4:Yea Combined
Independent Variable                 a Fatlmate       P-Value      S Eatimate      P-Value      A Estimate      P-Valle         A Estimatt         P-Valut
Gender (2-Female)                                                                                 +0.127         0.003
Caste (1: Non SCiST/MBC)               +0.115          0.008                                      +0.267         0.000           +0.130             0.000
Household occupution:  1. Cultivator    -0.190         0.005         -0.128         0.000         -0326          0.000           -0.214             0.000
2. Labourer      -0.152                       -0.245                                                        M20B
3. Other                                                                   40.235
Annual Income Cateosy 1:<R&3000         -0.421         0.000         40.361         0.000         -0.444         0.000           -0393              0.000
2.3000-6500       -0.215                       -0322                         -0.286                         -0.271
3 > =6500
Hotoe hold sie                         +0.030          0.045                                      +0.043         OA03            +0.031             0.000
Prity                                   -.054          0.003         .0.048         0.000       -0.120           OA0             -0.078            0.000
W    ledhr Noo-Meia Proram             +0.397          0.000         +0.298         0.000         +0278          0.000           +0325              0.000
operting ti villae (l:No)
Age                                     -0.052         0.072         -0.067         0.003         -0.095                          40.084            0.000
Age2                                   +0.001          0.016         +0.001         0.002         +0.002                         +0.002             0.000
Year 1982                                                                                                                        -0.193             0.000
1986                                                                                                                        -0240
Intercept                               -2.22                       -1.431                        -1.200                          -1.292
R-Squared                               0.109                        0.141                        0.197                           0.141
N                                       1584                          1617                         1274                           4470
Noter 1. @ Forced in to equation cvn when not significant.
2. Statistical significance assumed at P < .05



Table A-l1. Nutrition Status (Z-Score) Regressed on Non-Programs and Program Variables
Model 1: 1982                 Model 2 1986                  Model 3: 1990                Model 4:Year Combined
Independent Variables                  A Estimate       P-Value      8 Estimate       P-Value       A Esimate       P-Value         A Estimate          P-Value
Gender (2:Female)
Caste (1: Non SC/ST/MBC)                 +0.106          .006                                        +0.164          .000            +0.080              .000
Houschold occupation: 1. Cultivator      -0.249          .000          -0.150          .000           -0.305         .000            -0.215               .000
2. Labourer         -0.148                        -0.189                        -0.222                          -0.181
3. Other
Income Category   1: < Rs3000            -0.221          .001          -0.278          .000          -0.339          .000            -0.276               .000
2:3000-6500            -0.123                        -0.306                        -0.238                           -0.226
3: > =6500
House hold size                                                                                      +0.039          .004            +0.028              .000
Parity                                                                                               -0.094          .000            -0.046
Whether Noon-Meal Program@               +0.324         .000           +0.260          .000          +0.282          .000            +0.295              .000
operating in village (I:No)
Age                                      +0.010          .011          -0.067          .004           -0.070         .000             -0.056              .000
Agc2                                                                   +0.001          .056          +0.001          .009            +0.001              .000
Year 1982                                                                                                                            -0.059               .000
1986                                                                                                                            -0.268
Prog,am-Related VwiabLez
No. times weighed in TINP (W)            +0.016          .000          +0.037          .000          +0.043          .000            +0.029              .000
No. doses Vitamin A reed.                +0.027          .036
No. times dewormed
No. days fed (total) (F)                 -0.006          .000           -0.004         .000           -0.006         .000            -0.006               .000
Whether immunization complete (1:        +0.093         .025           +0.131          .004          +0.133          .039            +0.111              .000
Yes; 2:No)
Age at first weighing                                                  +0.022          .010          +0.025          .032            +0.013              .021
W * F                                    +0.000          .000          +0.000          .000          +0.000          .000            +0.000              .000
Intercept                              -2.625                          -1.813                        -1.621                          -1.699
R-Squared                                0.299                          0.261                         0.305                           0.283
N                                         1471                          1629                          1274                            4470
Noters 1. @ Forced in to equation even when not significant.
2. Statistical significance assumed at P < .05



Table A-12 Age of Entry Regressed on Program and Non-Program variables
Model 1: 1"2                  Model 2: 1986                 Model 3 1990              Mode 4:Year Combined
Independent VabIm                       A FAfltete       P-Valu       S   wstit        P-Value       a Estimate       P-Value      A EStMate       P-Value
Gender (2:Fanae)
Cate (1: Non SCQST/MBC)
Hougehod occupation: 1. Cultor            -31466          .000                                                                       -0.932          .000
2. LAbourer          -4.015                                                                                      -1.366
3. Other
Incowe Categcwy   1:<Rs3000                                             -1.119          .007
2:3000-6500                                           .0.806
3:>-6500
Household size
part                                                                     .0215          .047           4.285            .022         4236            .012
Whethb Noon-MeaJ Pram         oput ng     4.726           .248          4.29            .275           +0.987          .002          +0.006          .983
in vflp (1:14o)
Year 1962                                                                                                                            +7.6Q0          .000
1986                                                                                                                           -0.232
1990
PmowwRdsed VaMu
No. t_a  weiged i TINP
No. doan Vitamin A recd.
No.6 ime dewonned
No. das fed (otal)
DP1VOPVI (2:Yes)                      41S7  (OPVI)        AM0           -3.474          .000          -10.708          .000         -&132            .000
(D~I)Pl
No. moaths Post natal   dn.722                            .045 4S.262                   .003           4.245            .015         4279            .001
nercep                                    31383                         16.048                         29.465                        21.750
R-Squaed                                  .092                           .073                          0239                           0.373
N                                          726                           897                            727                           2347
NJVee  1. Q Fomed in to equaton ce        not .sgnifian.
2 Statstical significnce asumed ag P < .05



Table A-13. Age of Enty RegPssed on Provam and Non-Prognrm Variables
Model 1:1962                  Med 2:1916                     Mel 3: 1996               Model 4.Ymn _Ceublmd
independent Vartial V                      FA MmEa        P-Value       a Fli laEe       P.Valu        A Eage          P-Value          A FAUMSa         P-VaEle
Gender (2:Fcmale)
Caste (1: Non SCIST/MBC)
Hoseold occupatio: 1. Cuilator
2. LAbourer
3. Other
Income Categoy l:<Ra3000
2:3000-6500
3: > .6500
Hosekhold sue                              +0.248           .001                                         4.074           .031
Parity                                                                                                   +0.142         .001
Whether Noun-Meal Progam@ opemang           -osss          .001           +0o2            .006                                            +0.241          .000
in village (I:No)
Year   1982                                                                                                                               +0.657          .000              x
1986                                                                                                                              +0.463
1990
Prpom-Rdasvd VwiebAa
No. timea weighed in TINP                  +0;235           .000          +0.897          .000           +1.012         .000              +0.961          .000
No. doses Vitamin A rnao.                                                  +.l99          .012
No. times dewermed                                                                                       +0.057         .008              +0.078          .000
No. days fed (totad)                                                      4.001           l09            -0.002          .000             4.001           .000
Wbether inmuntiom complcee (2.Yes)                                        4.607           .000            0336           .010             4.555           .000
Age at frst weighing                                                      +0.883          .000           +0.981         lP00              +0.934           .000
Intercept                                  28.922                          3.353                         4.226                           +OS29
R-Squarcd                                   .155                           0.m97                         0.972                            0.956
N          _                                1595                           1564                           1176                            4239
Notce 1. @ Forced in to equation even when not significanL
2. Statistical significance assumed at P < .05



39
Fgure A-]
Pe=m TllVP Children Weighed
Project Monizoring Date
Percentage
98
94-
92-
848
82
83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93
Years



40
Fipre A-2
Annual Decdine in Malnurition Rates
(<75% NCHS Median) in TINP & Non-TINP Areas
Eu             ~~* TWp      c#4 OJA
0    _     l  :             .L..J.  -        #      Ti C TaZTf; DATA sn11 x1
4( f it  bs<< 5f 0S  T?s 
Ci MbE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



41
FigwcA-3
Gender Shifts in Program Panication Over 7rne
gm    r                   -- 
i j~~~~~~~~~~ aM |  N RALTAM    1981 A MI
goo ---                                  -.-s  SEGtAM  CF  PA,rPATS N STPATAI O;TlS
tm     9m       I0



42
Figure A-4
Caste Shifts in Program Participation Over iune
40
0 PERCENT NONW3C/3T CHtUMN
-t-- _ *~~~~~~~~ PMPCE4T GG/GT CHILDfE-N
se82       198O        1990
W_A



43
Fyure A-5
Z-Soore Dirribuion Weight-for-Age
a. June 1982                                                b. June 1988
O         S         80 X0                40            0                               s o0      40
2           .          .         i           2         2                                  .          2
O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ........... OO_...._- 
-    .... . ....                                       .    ......... ..
O10           2X         so         40            a          *0         X0        so
AN NkrMANINCrO
a June 1990
o              20        so         40
2                                             2 , 
3     .8~~~~~~~~
^ _,,,,, ., * .........                      -2...... *  I
x:    _  +.--.-.----o--           v-***
I.'~~~~~~~~i
4~~~ .                                 4   ,     4        
O                   a          0          40
ANINN






45
APPENDIX 2
1. The primary data-set,
1.1   The primary data used for this report was derived from the 100-CNC data set collated by the
TINP Monitoring office. This data set was collected from 1100 Community Nutrition Centers
(CNCs) -- 100 CNCs per district, a total of 11 districts where the TINP-I has been operational.
These are service-delivery data extracted from the records/registers of the field-level CNC worker.
The data cover all children ever enrolled in the selected CNCs over the life of the CNCs (over
200,000 children), and includes the monthly weights on each child (longitudinal data to that effect),
as also service delivery/utilization indicators, and socio-economic data. Morbidity and mortality data
are included in the survey instruments, but their completeness and reliability is suspect, and hence
have not been analyzed here. Instead, area statistics such as those obtained from SRS, NSSO and
Directorate of Public Health have been explored for assessing effects on mortality. In addition, the
report draws upon relevant published/unpublished narratives on the TINP.
1.2   The 100-CNC data set described above covers approximately 10% of all TINP-I centers
(about 1100 CNCs) randomly (approximately 200,000 children) spread over eleven districts. A One
hundred CNCs were sampled from each district. This study selected a representative sample from
this data set.
1.3   All districts in which the TINP-I operated were divided into three strata-Stratum 1 includes
all districts where TINP was initiated in 1982, Stratum 2 covers districts where TINP started in 1983,
and Stratum 3 includes districts where the TINP was initiated in end 1984/early 1985. All the blocks
(in each district) were ranked on a socio-economic status (SES) index comprising four indicators:
percent scheduled caste population, percent scheduled tribe population, and male and female literacy
rates.
SES =    x
where xi = value of the ith variable and o, = standard deviation for the ith variable
Within each stratum, blocks were arranged in ascending SES order, and ten blocks selected per
stratum using systematic random proportionate probability sampling (PPS) based on the number of
beneficiaries covered. Two CNCs were then selected from each designated block, using the same
PPS technique. This procedure ensures adequate spread of the sample as well as representativeness
by allowing blocks/CNCs with larger coverage a higher probability of being included in the sample.
All children enrolled in the sampled CNCs were included in the final sample.
1.4   The sub-set of the 100-CNC data set described above was extracted, cleaned, and entered in
to a D-base compatible data format. Data were subject to rigorous logic, range and consistency
checks in addition to the usual double entry and verification procedures. The individual child is the
unit of analysis for most procedures. Data was analyzed using the SYSTAT statistical package for
most analyses except for estimation of nutritional status where the CDC-supported CASP



46
anthropometric software package was used. Both bivariate and multivariate statistical procedures
have been used.
1.5     From  the above sub-sample, analyses presented here are limited to children who participated
in the TTNP program in the following years:
Stratum 1              Stratum 2b              Stratum 3'
Base Year.                                            1982                    1983                    1985
('Sample size for aD children enrolled in            (1600)                  (1609)                  (1291)
reference year)
(IISample size for June)                             (1106)                  (1159)                   (947)
Mid-Point Foiow-up:                                   1986                    1986                    1986
("Sample size for June)                              (1116)                  (1029)                  (505@)
After Project-Cls61ng                                 1990                    1990                    1990
("Sample size for June)                               (1319)                 (1426)                   (996)
Notwr2
a. Program started in 1982; Districts covered: Madurai & Dindigul-Anna.
b. Program started in 1983; Districts covered: Ramanathapuram composite & PuddukottaL
c. Program started in late 1984/early 1985; Districts covered: TiunelveDi, North Arcot & Chengalpattu.
'Ibis represents the basic sample used for aD regression analye presented in section 4. Since data were not available for all
variables for eacb case, sample sizes varied some what depending on which variables were included in the regressions.
" For measurement of malnutrition prevalence, a cross-section of the sample in June was analyzed for each year. See also section
135. below.
@ Sample sizes dropped from earlier years because the TINP was replaced by the ICDS project in Puddukottai district in 1987
Data for the month of June for all three strata have been used to estimate malnutrition rates in each
of the three strata separately. This represents a cross-section of all children enrolled in the program
in June for each reference year. Data for strata one have been subject to more detailed multivariate
analyses to answer questions about program inputs that contribute to the observed impact, and
program participation factors. These data for detailed analysis cover all children who passed through
the program in the reference year, with program input data recorded for the entire period of
participation, subject to a maximum of 31 months between 6 to 36 months of age.
1.6 Sample size estimations detailed below are based on the power of detection of 100-300 gram
differences in weights of young children. The following tables include sample size estimations for the
sample sizes (nuimbers of children) required for statistical testing, under different sets of assumptions.



47
Here, a is the standard deviation of the weights of children, a is the level of statistical significance,
B is the power of the test, d is the difference in weights that is to be detected, and n is the sample
size requirement under each of these conditions.
SD(o)   a    1-B      d     n              SD(o)   a    1-B       d     a
1200   0.05   0.9   100   3732             1200   0.05    0.8   100   3023
1200   0.05   0.9   200   933              1200   0.05    0.8   200    756
1200   0.05   0.9   300   415              1200   0.05   0.8   300    336
1100   0.05   0.9   100   3136              1100   0.05    0.8   100   2540
1100   0.05   0.9   200   784               1100   0.05    0.8   200   635
1100   0.05   0.9   300   348               1100   0.05   0.8   300   282
1000   0.05   0.9   100   2592             1000   0.05   0.8   100   2100
1000   0.05   0.9   200   648               1000   0.05    0.8   200   525
1000   0.05   0.9   300   288               1000   0.05   0.8   300    233
800   0.05   0.9   100   1659               800   0.05   0.8   100   1344
800   0.05   0.9   200   415                800   0.05    0.8   200    336
800   0.05   0.9   300   184                800   0.05   0.8   300    149
600   0.05   0.9   100   933               600   0.05    0.8   100   756
600   0.05   0.9   200   233               600   0.05   0.8   200    189
600   0.05   0.9   300   104               600   0.05    0.8   300    84
500   0.05   0.9   100   648               500   0.05   0.8   100   525
500   0.05   0.9   200   162               500   0.05   0.8   200    131
500   0.05   0.9   300    72               500   0.05   0.8   300    58
2. Qualifications/Limitations
2.1 This report was commissioned to be completed within twenty weeks from start to finish
including planning, data-extraction, computerization, cleaning, analysis, literature review and report
writing. Time, thus, was a severe constraint.
2.2 A major limitation of the study is the lack of primary data from non-TINP areas, that is, lack
of a "true control". This limitation is offset in two ways: First, these data are supplemented with
secondary data on nutritional changes in TINP and non-TTNP areas. Secondary data sources include
previous aggregate evaluation reports, as well as independent data from the National Nutrition
Monitoring Bureau. Second, because the project was introduced in different districts in a phased
manner, "time-controls" have been used to trace project history; that is, the situation at the start of
the project in each district is used as an estimator of the nutrition situation without project inputs.



48
2.3 The lack of reliable and extensive data on health inputs and outputs is another limitation of this
data-set. This gap is compensated to some extent with supplementary data from secondary sources.
Furthermore, all data-availability was constrained within the set of variables included in the 100-CNC
data-set, over which this researcher had no control.
2.4 This report attempts to compare data compiled and extracted from service delivery statistics
over the life of the project. One obvious limitation of this approach is the changes in data reporting
and recording quality (by TINP functionaries) over this period, which could bias results. To minimize
these effects, the measurements used for comparison of nutritional status are for June in each year.
Since the program started in january/february 1982, the period until June allows for time for attaining
better data-quality, as well as for stabilization of participation profiles. Generally, TINP monitoring
data have been commended to be of high quality1,2, and improvcments in data-quality within a few
months of program initiation (as indicated by declining standard errors around the mean) has been
noted in other reports.3
2.5 Notwithstanding all of the above, this study will serve as a launching pad for future research
in two ways. First, it contributes the first computerized, cleaned, geographically diverse and
representative data-set from TINP-I project areas. Second, it aims to explore new areas of TINP
program evaluation, and raise (and catalogue) some relevant questions that need to be addressed
through future work.
1. Martorll, Reynaldo. 1987 Junel Consultant report on evaluation of the TINP. MimcO.
2  The World Bnk 1991. Op. aL
3  Sheka Meem 1991. Op. aL



49
LIST OF REFERENCES
Beaton G., and H. Ghassemi. 1982. wSupplementary Feeding Programs for Young Children in
Developing Countries." Am J. Clin Nutr. 1982, 4(suppl): 864-962.
Berg, Alan. 1987. Mabutrition. What can be done? Lessons from World Bank Experience.
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Bhan, AK., and Shanti Ghosh. 1986. Successful Growth Monitoring Some Lessons from India.
UNICEF. New Delhi
Cantor, S.M. and Associates, Inc. 1973. Tamil Nadu Nutrition Stidy. 8 vols. Haverford. PA.
Central Technical Committee. 1986, 1987. Annual Report on ICDS. All India Institute of Medical
Sciences. New Delhi
Chidambaram, G. 1989. Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project- Tenninal Evaluation.
Vol. 1. Directorate of Evaluation and Applied Research (DEAR). State Planning Commission,
Government of Tamil Nadu, Madras.
Dapice, David. 1986. "A Cost Study of ICDS and TINP." Preliminary Draft - Comments only.
Department of Evaluation and Applied Research (DEAR). 1984. Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
Project, Mid-Term Impact Evaluation Report. Government of Tamil Nadu, Madras.
-      - 1993. Base-line Survey Report on Communication Component. TINP-II. Draft.
Devadas, R. 1987. Nutriious Meal Program for Children in Tamil Nadu - Some Pointers.
UNESCO. Aids to Programming UNICEF Assistance to Education.
--------, 1987. Chief Minister's Nutritious Meal Program. An AppraisaL Government of Tamil Nadu
Government Press. Madras.
Fergusons, D. 1989. Evaluation of the TINP Communications Component. Unpublished mimeo.
Ghosh, Shanti and M.K. Bhan. 1986. Successful Growth Monitoring. Some Lessons from India.
UNICEF. New Delhi
Gopalan, C 1988 Integrated Child Development Services, A Study of Some Aspects of the System
Scientific Report No. 7. Nutrition Foundation of India. New Delhi.
------, 1986. 'Choosing Beneficiaries for Nutrition Programs". Bulletin of Nutrion Foundation of
India. Nutrition Foundation of India. New Delhi



50
Heaver, R. 1989. "Improving Family Planning, Health and Nutrition Outreach in India: Experience
from some World Bank Assisted Programs." Background Paper for 1989, India. Country
Economic Memorandum, World Bank.
Knudsen, Odin. 1981. "Economics of Supplemental Feeding of Malnourished Children: Leakages,
Costs, and Benefits." World Bank Working Paper No. 451. Washington, D.C.
Madan T.N. 1987. "Community Involvement in Health Policy: Socio-structural and Dynamic Aspects
of Health Beliefs." Social Science and Medicine. 25(6): 615-620.
Martorell, Reynaldo. 1987. Impact Evaluation of the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project.
Consultant Report. Mimeo. Food Research Institute, Stanford University. Stanford, California.
Mason, J.B., J.P Habicht, H. Tabatabai and V. Valverde. 1984. Nutritional Surveillance. World Bank.
Geneva.
Mathew, Susan. 1985. "Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project -A Presentation." Thirteenth
International Congress of Nutrition, Brighton, England.
National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau. 1989. Interim Report of Repeat Survey, Phase 1, 1988-89.
National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical Research. Hyderabad, India.
Operations Evaluation Department (OED). 1993. "The World Bank's Role in Human Resource
Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: Education, Training and Technical Assistance." Report
No. 12144. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
Shekar, Meera. 1990. Positive and Negative Deviance in Child Growth: A Study in the Context of
the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project. Ph.D. thesis Comell University. Ithaca, New York.
-------, 1991. "The TINP: A Review of the Project with Special Emphasis on the Monitoring
Information System." Comell Food and Nutrition Policy Program. Working Paper No. 14.
Cornell
University. Ithaca, New York.
-------, n.d. Positive and Negative Deviance in a Developing Country-A Study in the Context of the
Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project. (Phase I funded by the Thrasher Research Fund).
Unpublished.
-------, P. Rao, S. Gillespie and V. Reddy. 1992. "Nutrition Relevant Actions in Andhar Pradesh and
Tamil Nadu in Reddy et al." Nutrition in India. UN ACC/SCN.
-------, M.C. Latham. 1992. Growth monitoring can and does work! An example from the TINP in
Rural South India. Ind. J. Paed. 1992. 59:5-15.
Shrimpton, Roger. 1989. "Community Participation in Food and Nutrition Programs. An Analysis
of Recent Govemmental Experiences." Comell Food and Nutrition Policy Program. Ithaca,
New York. Mimeo.



51
Subbarao, K 1989. "Improving Nutrition in India: Policies and Programs and their Impact."
World Bank Discussion Paper No. 49. Washington, D.C.
Tandon, B.N. 1983. "A Coordinated Approach to Children's Health in India: Progress Report After
Five Years." Lancet.
UNICEF. 1990. 'Children and Women in Tamil Nadu: A Situation Analysis".
Vaidyanathan, Girija. 1989. "Introductory Address at TINP Workshop." July 31 - August 3, 1989.
Madras, India.
World Bank. 1980. TINP Inplementation. World Bank, Population, Health and Nutrition
Department. Washington, D.C.
-------, 1990. Project Completion Report. Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Credit 1003-IN)
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Operations Division, Country Department IV,
Asia Regional Office. Washington, D.C.






ANNEX 1
53
TNB WORLD *ANX
FACE INILE TIAISMT!AL "ORH
Datee September 2, 1994
Number of Pag-": 4
From: Dr. M. Chandrakapuro
Too Mr. graham Doruldson         (Dept.Cods) OEDD1    Room Mo. T 9O.45
CCs Mr. David Klaus                          1A271    Room No. a 3091
Fax Numbers
.ubjeocts T!NP (Cr. 1003-?W) - Draft Report on impact Evaluation Report
CO)OUNTU I
Pl,eas   oes thN attached letter rsaolved from Mrs. Moonaxi ChOudhry.
Reuards.
Dr..Chandraka
huthorLs-d by X                                   X$gnaturo1
t/ > ~Chandrakapure
MCI$|



54
Toelgr3ns :WON.L i CIILf3                              j. . ,  ;     ;
*           ~~~~~D.O.No. 6-1/94-wsIP/5-4-%   wwi tfnutr-T Vli,-; !!7rJ-J7!>'(
Mltq';; fl y'i   I 1 t i1AN f ut     IIr.   1nr: !", ',1-   1.?I
(D Vr,fAlTMEr,N   r 2i WomrEfrI  ! ;1W,!1'''  . tr;f 
8. MISHRA                       Jeevan Deeo  Building, Mezzanine rloor,
Project Manager (PSI)                      n               D@h-1l0001.
Toel. 3733980, 311520                                           j.914
f vkrwuwxx N-x x* fto i  nnni',    1.9. 1994
Deor Dr. Chandrakapure,
I shall be grateful if vou kindly arrange to send
the enclosed letter to Mr. Graham Donaldson, Chief,
Agricultur.  & Human  DeveloiDment Division,  otorations
Evaluation Department, World Bank, Washington, V  S.A.
With kind regards,
Yours sincerelv,
(S. Mishra)
Dr.(Mrs..) Malati Chandrakapure,
Public Health soecialist,
The World Bank,
355 Lodi Estate,
New Delhi - 110 003.



Telegrams: WOMEN CHILD                                                 Telex B  21(8154/' WCD IN
4 i t wrws s8ss ~~~isrsr ws
NAXI ANAND CHALA RY                               (4"r w; -TTr fam fm trr)
.    JOINr SEARY                                   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
l   jtIEL.No.386227                 lMINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN & CHILD DEVELOPMENT)
it                            1 ;r, ;Tf Fa411     m  I  Sept. ,94
Shastri Shavan, New Dolhi-110 001, Dated
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Thank you for forwarding Draft Report on Impact Evaluation Report of
First Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Credit 1003)IN dated July 19,94
as drafted by the Operations Evaluation Department, based on their research
5arple in respect of 11O Connunity Nutrition Centres in 11 districts of Tamil
Nadu.   It is indeed heartening to note that the TINP-I Project contributed
significantly  in reducing    the  levels  of malnutrition  amongst  the target
population.  It is also satisfying to note that the project  has been able to
achieve our basic objective of reducing the levels of malnutrition among the
target group in a cost effective manner.
2.      May I also invite your attention to sane of the observations Included
in the Report and based largely on a set of assumptions. These observations,
vhich I am briefly indicating below. you avuld appreciate, are not supported
by sufficient empirical evidence and thus,perhaps, require reconsideration
before taking out the final version of the Report.
3.       One such observation as included in Para 1.9 on page 5 relatos to
identification of factors responsible for limited success of other feeding
programnes in the country prior to year 1980.  The other observations which
require reconsideration are reflected in Para 1.13 on page 8, Para 2.12 on
page 13, Lines 6 and 7 on page 27, Para 2.52 on page 29, Para 2.54 on page 30
and Para 3.10 on page 37 of the Report.
4.      I am sure, you wvuld agree with me that in the absence of strong
enpirical evidence, it nay not be desirable to presume factors responsible for
little impact of nutritional progrannmes prior to the year 1980 or in rmking
subjective assessnent of the impact of Noon Meal Progranme in Tanil Nadu.   I
;also wish to mention that malnutrition in India is a result of a host of
Ifactors including inequality in distribution of lncare and wealth, recurrence
of natural calamities and related health problens and not inappropriate chlld
care practices alone.   Similarly,  including a caTprison of TINP costs and
berefits with ICS Scheze in Tamil Nadu may not be very relevant in the
xbsence of supporting erpirical evidence.
5.      In addition  to  the above,  I wish to mention  that under the ICDS
Scheme,  the  angarrwadi  worker  forms  the  grass  root  functionary  and  the
guidelines under the Scheme clearly provide for appointtent of an  anganiadi
vorker directly frao the local village and acceptable to the to the local
coumunity.  Regarding Tamil Nadu Goverrnent's alleged reluctance to expand the
ICDS Scheme in Tamnil Nadu, I may add that we are consistently getting written
requests  for  e'Ypansion  of  IC5S  Scheme  In Tanil  Nadu.    TINP  basically
represents supplementation of national efforts in ameliorating the conditions
of vulnerable groups in Tamil Nadu.   Again, it may be too early to record
strenRths  of TINP 11.



56
6.      It is also observed that category of children 6-36 months belonging to
families living below the poverty line and coning to nutrition centresa vhich
formed a part of the agreed minutes on TINP II has sanehow not been reflected
in the features distinguishing  in TINP 1I from TINP I.  Further more, Line 2
on pMge 5 needs to be substituted by "ICDS 'hich operated in 2B rural blocks
and 37 nujor urban alums'.
T.      I an sure, our carments on the Report will,therefore, be kept in view
uhile drakting the final version of the Report.
Yours sincerely.
(MEENAXI ANAND CHAUDHRY
Ar. Graham Donaldson, Chief
Agriculture & Hman Resource Developyent Division
operations Evaluation Development
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433



