Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9259
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Population, Human Resources, Urban & Water Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CHC     -   Community Health Center
CNC     -   Community Nutrition Center
CNI     -   Community Nutrition Instructress
CNS     -   Community Nutrition Supervisor
CNW     -   Community Nutrition Worker
DEAR    -   Department  of  Evaluation  and  Applied
Research
FST     -   Ferrous sulphate tablets
FY      -   Fiscal year
HSC     -   Health Sub-Center
ICDS    -   Integrated Child Development Sevices
IAS     -   Indian Administrative Service
MCH     -   Maternal and Child Health
NMP     -   Noon Meals Program
OED     -   Operations Evaluation Department
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
PHC     -   Primary Health Center
PHR     -   Population, Human Resources
PPAR    -   Project Performance Audit Report
SAR     -   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     -   Special Drawing Rights
TINP    -   Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
USAID   -   US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st to December 31st



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
USA.
Office of O,fectocGeneral
OpVWatmns EvaluMtrn
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: India - Tamil Nadu Integrated
Nutrition Proiect (Credit 1003-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: India - Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
Project (Credit 1003-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department by this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(Credit 1003-IN)
Table of Contents
Paae No.
Preface         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Summary          . .        ..........                    iii
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction.. . .  . .1
B.  Prolect DescriRtion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Background ..                                                 2
Project Objectives and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . .        3
Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
C.  Proiect Results  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
Physical progress .... . . . . ..                             5
Nutrition  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .   ..5...  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  S
Health ..... . . . . . . ..                                   6
Cost-effectiveness ....  .  .  .  .    . .                    7
D.  Proiect Strengths and Weaknesses: Lessons Learned  . .        8
The Project Design and Implementation Process  . . . .        8
The project design process  . . . . . . . . . . .        8
The implementation process  . . . . . . . . . . .        9
The Nutrition Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
The worker: recruitment, tasks & routines . . . .       10
Growth monitoring          ..10
Supplementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
Food processing and distribution  . . . . . . . .       11
Problems experienced in nutrition component . . .       12
Possible responses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       12
The Health Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
Training and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
The Communications and Community Participation
Component  ..18
Monitoring and Evaluation  . . .         .19
Conclusions: Summary of Lessons Learned   .     .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pate No.
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         23
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION.                               ...         24
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . . . . .         24
2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         24
3. Credit Disbursements    ..25
4. Project Results    ..26
5. Project Costs and Financing   ..27
6. Status of Covenants    ..28
7. Use of Bank Resources   ..29
ANNEXES
1.  TINP'S Community Nutrition Center
Summary Performance Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
2.   Thresholds Indicating Poor Performance . . . . . . . . . .         32
References      ........................                                33



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Tamil Nadu
Integrated Nutrition Project ia India, for which Loan 1003-IN in the amount of
US$ 32.0 million was approved on 15 April, 1980.  The loan was closed on 31
March, 1989, two years behind schedule. It was almost fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement was on October 17, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources, Urban and
Water Operations Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III). The Borrower was requested by the Bank to prepare
Part II, but a reply has not been received.
Preparation of this PCR was started after a national level workshop to
evaluate the project, which was organized by the Government of Tamil Nadu in
August, 1989. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan,
Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and independent evaluation studies of the project (see
References).



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
E.VALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives
1.        The main project objectives (para 2.07) were: (a) to halve malnutrition
among children under four years of age; (b) to reduce infant mortality by 25%;
(c) to reduce vi.--in A deficiency in the under fives from about 27% to about 5%;
and (d) to raduce anaemia in pregnant and nursing women from about 55% to about
20%.
Implementation Exy,;irience
2.        Implementation experience was good. Village nutrition centers staffed
by community workers were set up in about 9,000 villages of Tamil Nadu. Workers'
skills and motivation were evaluated as very high. About 2,000 new Health Sub-
Centers were constructed. Implementatic.. delays were not significant. The two
year extension of the project was required to expend savings generated by Rupee
devaluation, rather than to complete originally planned project activities (para
2.11).
3.        Factors responsible for smooth implementation included the state's
strong political commitment to the nutrition sector; the high quality of the
managers assigned by the state to the project; the attention given by both
Borrower and IDA staff to the design of project software systems during
preparation; and the use of the first project year for field testing of these
systems in a small area, before rapid subsequent expansion (paras 3.02-3.06).
Results
4.        With regard to the project's nutrition goals, it is estimated that TINP
con'ributed to a reduction of a third or more in severe malnutrition among 6-24
month old, and contributed, together with another nutrition program
simultaneously implemented by the state, to a reduction of about half among 6-60
month old. These achievements surpass those of most other nutrition programs.
On the other hand, the project did not achieve its ambitious goal of reducing
malnutrition as a whole by 50%. Even in the parts of Tamil Nadu benefiting
longest from the project, severe plus moderate malnutrition together fell by 28%
(from 53% to 38%) for under six children, and by only 10% for 6-36 month
children; results were poorer elsewhere (paras 2.13-2.18). The main problem was
failure to substantially reduce moderate malnutrition.



- iv -
5.        The project's health goals were not satisfactorily met.   Infant
mortality went down by 12%-26Z in different areas of the project; but it is not
clear how far these declines were caused by the project. Reductions in vitamin
A deficiency and anaemia were not directly measured, but the targets were clearly
not achieved. Process evaluation indicated that less than a third of under six
children and pregnant and lactating women had been covered by the related project
interventions.  The main problem was lack of effective collaboration between
health and nutrition workers in the field (paras 2.19-2.21 and 3.26-3.27).
Sustainability
6.        TINP is sustainable both institutionally and financially. By the close
of the project, the state had created from scratch a nutrition infrastructure
with excellent outreach through a skilled and motivated field staff and a group
of managers with the commitment and capacity to objectively assess the strengths
and weaknesses of their own program, and take corrective action.   On the
financial side, Tamil Nadu decided to continue to fund the project from its own
resources after project closing, and at the time of writing has requested a
second IDA credit to expand it state-wide  (para 2.06).   TINP's financial
sustainability is indicated by the fact that its recurrent cost of about US$4.7m
represented less than five percent of the state's spending on nutrition in
1989/90.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.        During implementation, TINP attracted a great deal of interest from the
international nutrition community. Despite the fact that it did not achieve all
of its goals, the project has an unusual number of lessons for the design and
implementation of other programs, some of which are already being applied. These
lessons are partly technical ones related to nutrition and health. But perhaps
the most important ones stem from the design of the project's software, which has
a number of features which could be adapted to improve the coverage and quality
of services in any of the 'people-oriented' sectors.
8.        On the nutrition side, TINP showed that part time village workers, if
properly trained and suppo.ted, can substantially improve their community's
nutritional status. Second, the project demonstrated unambiguously that growth
monitoring is an effective and feasible intervention in large scale nutrition
programs.   Third, the project showed that targeted supplementation based on
growth faltering plus feeding of all severely malnourished children can
significantly reduce severe malnutrition; but that a move to feeding all
moderately malnourished children plus greater attention to maternal nutrition
seems necessary to make a substantial impact on moderate malnutrition (paras
3.10-3.24).
9.        On the health side, the main finding was that large scale investment
in health infrastructure and supplies is not sufficient to improve performance.
Complementary measures are needed on the software side which will maximize health
and nutrition workers' incentive to cooperate, and make them more accountable for
doing so (para 3.36). TIN's experience sug;ested six or seven such measures



-v-
(paras 3.28-3.35), for experimentation in the proposed follow-on project.
10.       TINP's most significant lessons lie in the design of the project's
software on the nutrition side. Key features for replication include carefully
defined recruitment criteria for local workers (para 3.07); limitation of field
worker tasks to what is manageable and high priority (para 3.08); specification
of daily and monthly work routines (para 3.09); the innovative decentralized
training systet (para 3.37); supervisory ratios which facilitate on the job
training (para 3.39); the use of local women's groups to support project
activities (paras 3.06 and 3.42-4); the display of performance information to
clients and workers at the village nutrition center (para 3.46); and a management
info-mation system which could rapidly detect performers falling below
established norms (para 3.48).
11.       Overall, TINP can be viewed as an innovative and successful project,
showing that large scale, community level interventions in the social sectors can
work.   The lessons from the project are significant ones, and can help to
strengthen other outreach programs in India and elsewhere.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1003-IN)
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
1.01      The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP) is of special
interest to the Bank and to the Indian and international nutrition community for
several reasons.   It is one of the first free-standing nutrition projects
supported by IDA to be evaluated. Second, it is one of the largest nutrition
education/targeted supplementary feeding programs in the world. Third, although
the project did not achieve all of its planned goals, independent evaluation
indicates that it has been one of the more successful efforts to date to reduce
severe malnutrition. Fourth, the innovative design of TINP's software components
offers many lessons for other projects and programs.
1.02      For the above reasons, this Project Completion Report is longer than
the norm, and focuses particularly on the software and process aspects of the
project.  Part B of the report describes the sectoral environment in which the
project was formulated, and the object' 's, content and results of the project.
Part C focuses selectively on key design and implementation features which appear
to have contributed to the project's achievements, and which may contain lessons
for the design of other programs. It also focuses on aspects of the project
which were less successful than planned, and the lessons from this experience.
B. Project Description
Proiect Identity
Project Name                        Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
Credit No.                          1003-IN
Date of Credit Effectiveness        August 5, 1980
Completion Date                     March 31, 1989
Closing Date                        March 31, 1989
Total Project Cost                  US$81.0 million equivalent
Original Project Cost               US$66.4 million equivalent
Foreign Exchange Component
(Appraisal Estimate)               US$7.29 million equivalent
IDA Credit                          US$32.0 million
IDA Credit, Total Disbursed         US$31.977 million
IDA Credit, Total Canceled          US$0.023 million
RVP Unit                            Asia
Country                             India
Sector                              PHR
Subsector                           Nutrition



-2-
Background
2.01        India's concern about malnutrition dates from independence in 1947,
and intensified as a result of the famine in the state of Bihar in 1966/7.
Beginning witi the Fourth Plan (1968-73), the Government began to expand existing
feeding programs as a way to help bridge the nutrition gap, while longer-term
food production and income-generating meanures took hold. In 1975, it launched
the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme on an experimental basis. This
has now become the main child nutrition program, operating in about 40% of the
country; however, in the late 19709, when TINP was developed, it covered only
about six million people. By that time, public feeding programs of various types
had expanded to reach an estimated 20 million beneficiaries.
2.02        While concern about malnutrition was reflected to greater or lesser
degree in the policies and programs of all Indian states, Tamil Nadu's commitment
to the nutrition sector has been particularly strong. The state commissioned
studies in the mid and late 1970s, which showed that only one out of 16 major
states was worse than Tamil Nadu in terms of average daily food intake; that 85%
of under six children in the state were less than 90% of the recommended weight
for their age; and that malnutrition was a leading or associated cause of more
than 75% of the dea'hs of 0-3 year old children.  By the early 1980s, Tamil Nadu
had decided to substantially increase spending on nutrition, and expected this
investment to make a significant contribution to the achievement of its Sixth
Plan goals, which were to reduce economic and social inequalities; to raise
incomes and employment; and to reduce the poverty and improve the quality of life
of the weaker sections of the population.
2.03        By the late 1970s, about 25 nutrition programs were operating in
Tamil Nadu, mostly under government auspices. The state was spending about US
$8.8m. per annum on the sector, three quarters of which was accounted for by a
school meals program reaching around two million children. However, all of the
states's nutrition programs combined reached less than 10% of pre-school
children, the group that studies had shown to be most affected by malnutrition.
And various evaluation studies had shown that the existing nutrition programs
were of limited success for the following reasons:
(a)   they did not reach intended beneficiaries because they failed to set
or adhere to nutritional criteria with respect to target groups;
(b)   on-site feeding tended to substitute for food which beneficiaries
would otherwise have consumed at home;
(c)   food taken home was shared with other family members, and thus
diluted the impact on the beneficiary;
(d)   the supplement given was too coarse and bulky for very young
children to eat;
(e)   feeding was mainly confined to children who came to centers on a



-3-
drop-in basis, rather than through active efforts to identify those
most at nutritional risk;
(f)   insufficient emphasis was given to nutrition education for mothers;
and
(g)   food and education alone could not adequately improve nutritional
status in the absence of complementary health care interventions.
2.04        A strong commitment to nutrition was thus combined with doubts about
the appropriateness of the design of existing nutrition programs. In particular,
there was increasing awareness in the State of the need to improve the targeting
and lower the unit cost of its interventionn; to promote better nutrition and
health practices within families; and to strengthen maternal and child health
(MCH) services. This situation led to the request for IDA assistance to develop
a nutrition project focusing on children in the first three years of life, the
nutritionally most vulnerable group.  This was only the fourth request for a
free-standing nutrition project that the World Bank had at that time received.
2.05        IDA's program in India in the late 1970s focussed on the power and
agriculture sectors.  Of a total of US$7,206m. of IDA resources committed to
India at the time TINP was appraised, only US$33m. had gone to the social
sectors, for two credits for education and population which went to the Board in
1972. The latter credit, which closed in 1980 and was evaluated in a PPAR dated
January 1982 (No. 3748), was implemented in selected districts of Uttar Pradesh
and Karnataka. It included a small nutrition component, which was evaluated as
not very successful.  This was mainly because food was given on a take-home
basis, and it was not clear how much was eaten by the malnourished child as
opposed to shared with other family members. Nutrition components have not been
incorporated in subsequent Bank-assisted projects in India.
2.K'5       In 1982, the Tamil Nadu Government initiated a second major nutrition
initiative, the Chief Minister's Noon Meals Program, which supplies a daily rice-
based meal to all children from three years and up. This had achieved state-wide
coverage by the time the TINP credit closed ir. 1989, while TINP was operating in
about half the state. At this point the state government decided to continue the
operation of TINP using its own funds, and to approach IDA for a second credit
which would expand TINP services to pre-school children in the rest of the state,
and add several new features to the program to strengthen its impact in existing
areas. Discussions on the design of the proposed follow-on project were taking
place at the time of writing this report.
Project Obiectives and StrategV
2.07        TINP's  overall  goal was  to imDrove  the nutrition  and health
conditions of pre-school children, with emphasis on those aged 6-36 months, and
of pregnant and nursing women. The main project target was a 50% reduction in
the incidence of protein-energy malnutrition from a level at appraisal of about
60% among children under three years of age. Additionally, the project aimed to



- 4 -
contribute to the Government's goal of achieving the following objectives in the
project area: a) a 252 reduction in the infant mortality rate, then about 125
per 1,000; b) reduction in the incidence of Vitamin A deficiency in children
under five, from about 27% to about 5%; c) reduction in the incidence of
nutritional anaemia in pregnant and nursing women, from about 55% to about 20%.
2.08        The main project strategies were to provide nutrition education and
primary health care to pregnant and lactating women and children 6-36 months; to
monitor the growth of children in this age group through monthly weighing and
growth charting; and to provide supplementary feeding and health checks to those
children whose growth was found to be faltering, as well as intensive counselling
to their mothers. This was to be managed primarily through a new cadre of part
time, paraprofessional Community Nutrition Workers. These were to be assisted
by local women's groups created under the project, together with the existing
health outreach and referral serviceo, which would be strengthened under the
project.  Monitoring and evaluation were to have an important role, since the
Government wished to see whether, through the project, it would be possible to
increase the effectiveness and reduce the unit costs of its nutrition programs.
2.09        The project was planned to take place in the rural areas of six
districts of the state (later to become ten districts as a result of
administrative bifurcation), chosen for having the worst nutritional status.
Geographically, these districts covered about half the state, and a rural
population of about nine million people. The project was to be implemented over
five years, with a phased expansion on a block by block basis (the block is an
Indian administrative unit covering about 100,000 people).
Proiect ComRonents
2.10        The total project cost at appraisal of US $66.4m. was allocated among
five components as follows: Nutrition Service Delivery (47%), Health Service
Delivery (43%), Communications (6%), Monitoring and Evaluation (2%), and Project
Coordination (2%).   Project costs by category were distributed as follows:
Salaries and Allowances (24Z), Civil Works (19%), Vehicles, Equipment and
Furniture (14%), Food Supplement (13%), Drugs and Supplies (12%), Training (6Z),
Vehicle and Other Operating Costs (6%), Contract Services (5%) and Project
Management Fund (1%). The following main items and activities were financed
under the different components:
(a)   Nutrition.   Staff, rent, furniture and equipment for 9,000 newly
created Community Nutrition Centers (CNCs); supervisory staff,
accommodation and transport; running costs of supervisors' offices
and CNCs, including therapeutic food for beneficiaries;
(b)   Health.   Construction, furniture, equipment, salary and running
costs for 1,600 Health Sub-Centers (HSCs), for ten institutions for
classroom training of Multi-Purpose Health Workers and their
supervisors, and for field training wings at 39 Primary Health
Centers; bicycles, motorcycles and vehicles for health staff and
supervisors; drugs, vaccines and supplies;



- 5 -
(c)   Communications.   Costs of designing, producing and disseminating
films, filmstrips, radio broadcasts, folk plays and written
materials for nutrition and health education campaigns and for
training neighborhood leaders.
(d)   Monitorinz and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation offices in
each project district, and costs of baseline and special studies,
data processing and routine monitoring activities.
(e)   Project Coordination.   Rent, furniture, equipment, staffing and
other operating costs of the project coordination office; funds for
innovative activities.
2.11        During project  implementation,  the Dollar and SDR appreciated
substantially against the Rupee, with the result that the IDA credit was able to
generate significantly more Rupee funds than had been expected at appraisal. The
Government therefore proposed the following additional investments to utilize
these  'savings':   Construction of two food supplement production plants;
construction, equipping and staffing of 410 additional Health Sub-Centers;
development of a Communications Center in Madras to serve as a state level
resource for the planning, monitoring and evaluation of educational work in the
nutrition sector. Later economic analysis led to questions about the viability
of the food production plants, and these were not constructed; the remaining
additional investments were implemented.
C. Project Results
2.12        Physical progress.  The project's closing date was extended from
March 1987 to March 1989 in order to fully utilize the additional project funds
generated by currency fluctuations. This extension--which was also the cause of
the project's Rupee cost overrun--did not reflect delays in implementation, since
the activities originally included in the project were completed more or less
according to the original schedule.
2.13        Nutrition. An independent evaluation by the Tamil Nadu Government's
Department of Evaluation and Applied Research (Chidambaram, 1989) compared
results in four areas coming on stream in different phases of the project's
development against the situation at the start of the project. This evaluation,
referred to henceforth in this report as the DEAR evaluation, showed reductions
in severe malnutrition (grades III and IV, i.e. less than 60Z of normal weight
for age) varying from 402 to 552 among children 6-60 months old (Vol II, table
4).  However, it is not clear how much of this reduction was caused by the
project, how much by secular trends, and how much by benefits from the daily meal
supplied to 25-60 month children by the IMP (para 2.06). Neither of the latter
important influences was addressed by the DEAR evaluation.
2.14        It is very difficult to disentangle the independent effects of TINP
with the data available. With regard to the effects of TINP as opposed to the
NMP, DEAR data indicate (Vol II, table 2) that among 6-36 month children severe



- 6 -
malnutrition fell by between 26Z and 42% in different project areas. While these
data suggest a strong independent impact of TINP, they cannot be conclusive,
because they still contain the 25-36 month age group also fed by the NMP. An
independent assessment by Shekar (1989) made a direct comparison, and concluded
that reduction in severe malnutrition was greater among 6-24 month than 25-36
month children; but this study was limited to one block. With regard to the
impact of TINP as opprsed to developments in general in the state, the DEAR
comparison of pilot and control blocks suggests a strong project impact over and
above secular trends. But weaknesses in the evaluation design (para 3.52) make
it impossible to quantify this with any confidence.
2.15        Further uncertainty is introduced by some evidence (Shekar, 1989)
that the DEAR evaluation may underestimate the reduction in malnutrition achieved
in the project area (para 3.53). Serious account should also therefore be taken
of the project's own service statistics, which evaluators agree to be of
unusually high quality. They may be a more relevant measure of project impact
since they focus on nutrition status in villages covered by project services,
rather than in larger population taken as the denominator by the DEAR evaluation.
The monitoring data indicate a larger reduction of severe malnutrition in the 6-
36 month group, of between 36% and 66%. Again, of course, these figures include
the 25-36 month age group fed by the NMP, and as with the DEAR data also reflect
an unknown influence from secular trends.
2.16        Overall, it is probably fair to conclude that TINP, independently of
the NMP but not independently of secular trends, achieved a reduction of a third
to a half in severe malnutrition among 6-24 month children; and that the project
contributed, together with the NMP and secular trends, to a reduction of about
half among 6-60 month children.
2.17        There was less success in reducing moderate malnutrition (defined as
between 70% and 60% of normal weight for age). In the second and last phases of
the project, the DEAR evaluation indicates that second degree malnutrition was
higher at project end than at the beginning. But this is inevitable, since a
temporary rise in second degree malnutrition naturally follows improvement in
third and fourth grade children. More significantly, however, by the end of the
project grade two malnutrition in children under five had only come down by 14%
in the first block to be developed, and still affected about 30% of children
(DEAR, Vol. II, table 1).
2.18        TINP's overall nutrition objective was to reduce malnutrition in 6-36
month children by 50% during the project period; the appraisal report did not
specify which grades, but it may be assumed that this meant moderate and severe
malnutrition. According to the DEAR evaluation (Vol. II, tables 1 and 2), in the
initial block to be developed moderate and severe malnutrition together fell only
10% in the 6-36 month age group, and by 28% in the 6-60 month group.   The
reduction was much less in later phases of the project, where the grade two
population had--presumably temporarily--increased.
2.19        Health.  As against the target of 25%, the DEAR evaluation indicated
that infant mortality had declined by 26 to 29% in the blocks first developed,



and by 12 to 13% in the later phases of the projectl a rate for the project area
as a whole was not calculated.   The project therefore can be said to have
contributed to meeting the state's mortality reduction target (this was how the
project target was expressed), but it is not clear how far the project was
actually responsible for achieving the above declines, since declines of the same
average magnitude occurred in the non-project districts of the state; on the
other hand, the TINP project districts were chosen because they were relatively
disadvantaged, so that average mortality reduction figures may reflect more than
average achievement.
2.20        Success  in  achieving  the  project's  two  other  formal  health
objectives--reduction from 27% to 5% in Vitamin A deficiency in under five
children, and reduction in anaemia from 55Z to 20% of pregnant and nursing women-
-was not evaluated directly. Nevertheless, inferences can be drawn from coverage
levels achieved in related interventions, which, according to the DEAR
evaluation, had risen very significantly, but were nevertheless well short of
what would have been needed to achieve the proje,zt targets. 55% of children
received half or more of the due doses.  28% of children had not received a
single dose. While at least half of all eligible pregnant women had received
Ferrous Sulphate Tables (FST) against anaemia, only 18.5% had received the right
quantity of FST. There is no data to indicate what percentage of women getting
FST actually took the tables.
2.21        Unsatisfactory performance with these two interventions can partially
be explained by periodic national shortages of Vitamin A, and quality problems
with the FST, leading to their withdrawal at one point by health component
managers. But similar performance was found at evaluation with other health
interventions emphasized under the project (although not given formal targets).
For example, 56% of antenatal cases were being registered by the end of the
project; 45Z of eligible women received full anti-tetanus immunization; only 37%
of children received regular health check-ups; and only 60% of children had
received three DPT immunizations.   These coverage rates are good by average
Indian standards, and considerable better than in the non-project areas. But
they were well below the rather ambitious, informal project targets of 80-90% for
each of these services.
2.22        Cost-effectiveness. DEAR's evaluation deals with project impact, but
not explicitly with the issue of cost-effectiveness, although this was a primary
concern of the state government (para 2.04) at appraisal. One study (Dapice,
1988), commissioned during project implementation, attempted to compare the cost-
effectiveness of TINP with the major national child development program, the
Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). The study concludedthat TINP had
achieved roughly twice the reduction in severe malnutrition of ICDS for a smaller
cost (about US$9.1 per direct beneficiary). However, this study needs to be
treated with some caution, for three reasons. First, it compared only one TINP
and one ICDS block. Second, it looked at effectiveness only in terms of reducing
severe malnutrition, when the goals of both programs were to reduce malnutrition
in general. Third, it is not clear that a comp&rison with ICDS is a fair one,
because TINP was a nutrition/health program only, while ICDS is a child
development program with broader goals, including pre-school education.



- 8 -
2.23        TINP nevertheless demonstrated that highly targeted feeding programs,
complementing effective nutrition education, can have a substantial impact on
severe malnutrition for far less money than universal feedings in an established
TINP block, monitoring data show that no more than 251 of 6-36 month children
were in feeding at any one time, with a corresponding saving in food supplement
costs. The project does not, however, demonstrate that the TINP targeting model
is a cost-effective formula for dealing with moderate as well as severe
malnutrition, in view of the project's limited effects on the former.
Experiments are currently going on in Tamil Nadu to determine the effects on
moderate malnutrition of broadening the target group for supplementation (see
also paras 3.22-3.24). The results should have important implications for the
design of nutrition programs in the proposed follow-on project and in other
countries.
D.  Proiect Strengths and Weaknesses:  Lessons Learned
3.01        The third part of this report begins by reviewing the general design
and implementation approaches that were important to TINP's achievements, and
then analyses lessons learned component by component. Because of its importance,
the training and supervision system is discussed as a separate component, even
though it was not treated as such in the original project appraisal report.
The Proiect Design and Implementation Process
3.02        The groiect design process.  Project design was facilitated by an
unusually strong nutrition information base, in the form of the USAID-financed
Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study, completed in 1973 by a multi-disciplinary team of
nutritionists, economists, biologists, food technologists, behavioral scientists,
engineers and systems specialists. The study was apparently at the time the most
systematic effort undertaken in a developing country to analyze the nutrition
aspects of food production, distribution and consumption, with a particular focus
on identifying interventions to improve child survival. The project also drew
from experience with IDA-financed nutrition project then under implementation
in Indonesia. Features incorporated from this project into TINP included the
focus on the 0-3 age group, the use of part time community nutrition workers as
the main change agents, and the calorie-dense food supplement.  Finally, the
design # oroject software was also influenced by the Bank-developed Training and
Visit    tem of agricultural extension, most notably with regard to highly
defined work routines for field staff; frequent, decentralized in-service
training; and reasonable spans of control for supervisory staff.
3.03        The final project design was the result of sixteen months of
intensive dialogue between the Government and IDA teams, which resulted in
substantial ref ineme- and simplification of the original project proposal. This
had originally interaed the project to cover four states, which was felt by IDA
to be too ambitious for  % first operation in the sector.   It had also
incorporated village water supply and food production, processing and storage
interventions, which vere later excluded from the project because it was felt
that these would complicate project management and could better be tackled
through sector-specific programs.   Another result of the dialogue during



- 9 -
preparation was the innovative food supplementation system, which focused on
feeding very young children for relatively brief periods for growth recovery
purposes, in contrast to existing programs which tended to provide prolonged
feeding for older children.
3.04        The implementation process.  Implementation was guided on a day to
day basis by a newly created project coordination unit, headed by an Indian
Administrative Service (IAS) officer who was also designated Additional Director
Social Welfare. The IAS status and the rank of this officer in the Directorate
were important factors in facilitating implementation; at the same time, the
creation of a separate unit for managing the project meant that attention to it
was not diffused in the press of managing existing departmental programs. The
Project Coordinator reported to an Empowered Committee chaired by the State's
Chief Secretary and consisting of the relevant Development Secretaries, which met
periodically to review proL:ess and take major decisions. The high level and
inter-departmental nature of this committee were important factors in achieving
coordination and getting things done.
3.05        Project expansion was carefully planned.  The project was confined
to one administrative block in its first year, during which the implementation
strategy was tested and refined. IDA's role was particularly important during
this period, as it was during preparation, with three or four visits by
interdisciplinary teams in a year, as against the six monthly reviews that became
the routine in subsequent years. Project expansion after the first year was
rapid.   An important contribution to flexibility and innovation in project
management both in the pilot block and the expansion phase was made by the
Project Management Fund, from which small amounts could be committed for studies
and operations research at the discretion of the project coordinator without
bureaucratic clearance.  This fund financed no less than 63 small studies which
helped identify problems during implementation, and also financed an innovative
program for food supplement production by village women's groups (see para.
3.14).
3.06        Project expansion was also carefully planned at the micro level, with
special attention to preparing the local community whenever the project moved
into a new village. After recruitment and training of the Community Nutrition
Worker (CNW), but prior to the offering of any project services, a women's group
was formed consisting of about 20 people with a particular interest in health and
nutrition. This group was briefed on the aims of the project, and played an
important part in explaining them in turn to the community. Two key elements of
the program's philosophy were communicated at this stage, before services were
even delivered. First, that the feeding program was to be purely rehabilitative
in nature, with only needy children getting supplemented; the primary
responsibility for child care and nutrition was to remain with the family.
Second, that the project was the community's, and project staff accountable to
local people. The CNW's supervisor made it clear at the initial briefing of the
women's group that the community should approach her and complain if any of the
promised services were not in fact delivered.



- 10 -
The Nutrition Component
3.07        The worker: recruitment. tasks and routines.   The criteria for
recruitment of the CNWs were important to the project's success. They had to be
womcn from the village (one was chosen for every 1,500 people), with an interest
in health and nutrition; and where possible they were women who were poorer than
average, but who had well nourished childt en. In addition to having good access
to mothers and high motivation, such women tended to be credible sources of
advice because they could demonstrate from their own experience that poor
families could provide better nutrition for their children even with existing
resources. These qualities were given higher weight in selecting workers than
their educational levels.
3.08        The project design consciously limited CNWs' tasks to a small number
which were manageable and likely to have a high impact on nutrition. These were
growth monitoring; nutrition education; supplementary feeding; education in oral
rehydration for diarrhea cases; twice yearly Vitamin A supplementation; and
quarterly deworming.   The growth monitoring, supplementation and deworming
programs were limited to the under four age group both because these were the
nutritionally most vulnerable, and because this group was small enough for
workers to pay them and their mothers individual attention.
3.09        Workers' daily and monthly routines were clearly defined.  In the
mornings, they ran the supplementary feeding program. In the afternoons, they
carried out home visits to families with problem children. Three predetermined
days a month were set aside for child weighing, which on the first two days took
place at specified locations in the village which were convenient to mothers.
The third day was set aside for following up on mothers who had failed to bring
their children for weighing.   This outreach approach resulted in a high
proportion of children being weighed every month--normally 85-90% of children in
main villages, although substantial numbers of children in outlying hamlets were
not reached (see para. 3.15).
3.10        Growth monitoring. A good deal of controversy persists about whether
growth monitoring is a necessary and feasible intervention for large scale
nutrition programs. TINP managers are convinced that regular growth monitoring
was the core intervention in the program, for three reasons. First, the growth
chart could detect faltering growth and incipient malnutrition long before it was
visible to either mother or worker, allowing action to be taken before the
problem became serious and hence more difficult to treat.  Second, weighing and
growth charting with the participation of mothers provided the central focus for
nutrition education. Third, the child's charted growth path provided the basis
for deciding whether supplementary feeding was necessary. On the question of
feasibility, studies during project implementation consistently reported a high
degree of accuracy in both taking weights and recording them.   TINP has
demonstrated unambiguously that growth monitoring is a feasible intervention for
paraprofessional workers in large scale nutrition programs, providing that
training and supervision are carefully planned (see paras 3.37 to 3.39).



- 11 -
3.11        Supplementation.  After much debate during project preparation, a
combination of nutrition grade and weight gain was used as the criterion for
entry into the supplementary feeding program. All children with severe (grade
3 or 4) malnutrition were fed, as also all children who failed to gain weight in
two successive monthly weighing, even if such children were in the normal
category by grade. Children in the first category were graduated from feeding
when they reached grade two and were on a normal growth path, children in the
second category after three months, providing they were gaining weight normally.
Attendance in the feeding program was evaluated as high, averaging about 95% of
those eligible.
3.12        The weight gain method had three general advantages. First, the
concept was educational in itself, demonstrating to mothers the importance of
feeding more to maintair. growth momentum.   Second, feeding growth faltering
children early, even when they were in grade normal, could prevent the
development of moderate and severe malnutrition. The fact that no less than 85%
of children in the average TINP village suffered a growth setback and entered the
feeding proeram at some time suggests that this preventive role may have been
quite significant. Third, it was thought that this selection method would be
cheaper, in terms of numbers in the feeding program, than supplementing all
moderately malnourished children. With no more than 25% of children in the
feeding program in the final year of the project, this was clearly the case.
However, as noted above (para. 2.17), the project failed to achieve a substantial
impact on moderate malnutrition, and it appears that this was in part because it
was supplementing too few children.
3.13        The TINP food supplement was a ready-to-eat mix of wheat, gram,
groundnut cake, sugar, maize and vitamin and mineral mix, delivering 380 calories
a ration. It was served in the form of 'laddus', or small ball-shaped snacks.
This type of supplement had three advantages. The use of locally consumed foods
ensured that it was acceptable. Because the food was ready to eat, cooking costs
and workers' time were saved. And, most importantly, because the food was served
in the form of a snack, mothers tended to think of it as a supplement to the diet
rather than as a meal which might substitute for existing consumption. This
perception was reinforced by the timing of feeding at the Community Nutrition
Center, which was in the first half of the morning, i.e. between meals.
3.14        Food processinR and distribution.   Three quarters of the project's
food requirement was supplied by a government-owned factory in Karnataka, another
southern Indian state. The remainder was produced by 322 of the women's groups
set up under the project (para. 3.06). Breaks in food supply from either source
were not experienced during the project. The cost per kilo of food produced by
village groups was similar to that of factory produced food (about Rs.7, or
US$0.5).  Village level production had the advantage of contributing also to
income and empluyment opportunities for local women, as well as a significant
educational spin-off; women in villages where the supplement was produced learned
the recipe and began to make it for normal home consumption. On the other hand,
problems were becoming apparent by the end of the project with quality control,
and with accountability of project funds, and it is unlikely that this form of
production will be expanded.



- 12 -
3.15        Problems experienced in nutrition component.  Four main weaknesses
in the nutrition component have been identified by various evaluators. First,
it appears that up to 30% of eligible children in the project districts did not
receive project services, especially regular weighing.   This is a serious
problem, because the excluded group will inevitably include cases of severe
malnutrition which have not been detected. A recently conducted study on the
characteristics of excluded beneficiaries concludes that the majority of
exclusion is for geographical reasons--they live outside the current catchment
area of the project--rather than self-exclusion by dropping out of the program.
This probably explains why project monitoring data show 85-90% weighing rates
(for villages covered by the project), while the DEAR evaluation (which sampled
the entire rural population in the project districts) reports closer to 70%.
3.16        Second, just over four per cent of children failed to respond to
project inputs,  and remain in feeding.   While this group of  'hard core
malnourished' is small, it is very important, because it consists mainly of
children who are severely malnourished and hence at high risk of dying. At the
time of writing, a study was also being conducted to determine the
characteristics of non-responders. The evidence available to date suggests that
these are children with medical problems which have not been resolved and/or
children from very poor families whose food resources are inadequate for the
family even with the supplement provided by the project.
3.17        Third, as already discussed, the project did not achieve a rapid
reduction in moderate malnutrition. Fourth, an unacceptably large number of
children who graduated from feeding relapsed into supplemeL.tation within six
months. A project financed study on relapse rates (Rajivan, undated) found that
42Z of the children that graduated relapsed once; 6% relapsed twice; less than
1% a third time. Thus, while the project succeeded in helping these children,
they might have recovered sooner to a normal growth path had they received a
longer, unbroken period of supplementary feeding.
3.18        Possible responses.  At the time of writing, six possible responses
to the above problems had been proposed for implementation in the next project.
First, it was accepted that TINP's interventions were focused on the 6-36 month
old child, and paid too little attention to children's nutrition in the womb and
in the first six months of life. Due to poor maternal nutrition, about 302 of
babies are born under weight, and hence at higher risk of mortality, morbidity
and persistent malnutrition. A better focus on maternal nutrition and on child
care during the first six months would produce bigger, stronger infants less
prone to malnutrition in general, and in particular to the problems of non-
response, relapse and failure to move out of grade two.
3.19        Under the TINP project design, the female Health Worker was given
responsibility for growth monitoring and general care of the 0-6 month child, and
for deciding which pregnant women should receive supplementation. Although this
part of the program has not been specifically evaluated since 1982, it appears
that this did not work well, largely because of the numbers and distances
involved for a worker covering a population of 5,000. It is now proposed to make
the CNW responsible for both these groups, and also for birth weight recording,



- 13 -
which was very incomplete under the project. Particular emphasis would be given
to increasing the percentage of antenatal cases registered; to giving a broader
range of antenatal care services; and to bringing all malnourished pregnant and
lactating women into supplementation.
3.20        Second, changes in the ration size and the type of food supplement
are being discussed, so that supplementation has a greater effect on nutrition.
This should have consequences for all of the weight gain problems mentioned
above, but particularly for -hildren who are non-responders because their
families are too poor to feed them adequately at home. Bigger rations may be
difficult for children to finish, so consideration is also being given to
reducing the bulk or viscosity of the normal ration, and in addition to enriching
the supplement being given to seriously malnourished children.
3.21        Third, it is proposed to improve the frequency and quality of medical
attention that malnourished children receive.   This should be of particular
benefit to non-responders with health problems which make it difficult for them
to absorb adequate nutrients. This issue is discussed in the following section
on health. Fourth, children failing to thrive may be admitted into the feeding
program on the basis of a check weighing a fortnight rather than a month after
inadequate weight gain is first detected, thus preventing some further decline
in nutritional status. (Children are not admitted into feeding immediately when
growth faltering is detected, because brief growth interruptions due to
infections are common and usually self-correcting; responding to such cases with
three months of supplementation is unnecessary, and wasteful of resources).
3.22        Fifth, and most significantly in financial terms, it is proposed to
supplement all children with moderate malnutrition instead of only those with
faltering growth as at present.   This is a recognition that the existing
selection criteria did not make a big enough and fast enough impact on this type
of malnutrition. The growth faltering entry criterion would however be retained
for grade one and normal children, because of its apparently important role in
preventing moderate and severe malnutrition. Such a decision would initially
double the number of children in feeding, but it is hoped that the numbers of
moderately malnourished children would subsequently come down to half the present
levels. If that were the case, the food costs of the program in its maintenance
phase would not substantially increase from the present, even taking into account
the increased unit cost of the ration, and increased numbers of pregnant women
in feeding.
3.23        The impact of this move to grade two feeding is hard to predict.  It
could be less than hoped to the degree that moderately malnourished children are
stunted as well as low weight for age, since such cases are harder to
rehabilitate (a study of the incidence of stunting is now being conducted). But
even if stunting is now common, the measures proposed to increase birth weights
and sustain normal growth in the first year of life should help to prevent it in
the future. Moreover, initial results of a small scale experiment with universal
feeding of grade twos in two blocks of the TINP area show a fairly rapid decrease
in the incidence of moderate malnutrition, even without the introduction of
complementary measures to improve maternal and 0-6 month infant nutrition. This



- 14 -
experiment is now being expanded to additional blocks to confirm its findings.
3.24        In  addition  to  reducing  moderate  malnutrition,  the  move  to
supplementing all grade two children should significantly reduce the relapse
rate. Many of those currently relapsing are children graduating from grade three
into grade two, who would now stay in feeding for a much longer period; a TINP-
financed study of relapse cases indicated that while 45Z of those fed for 90 days
relapse, less than 30% of those fed for 180 days do. Related to the question of
the relapse rate is whether the proposed follow-on project should graduate
children immediately they reach grade one or give them an additional period of
'protective' feeding to reduce the chances of subsequent relapse.
3.25        Finally, three kinds of responses are planned to the problem of
exclusion. First, in the existing project areas it is planned to develop an
additional 20% of CNCs to cover villages left out of the original project because
of insufficient funds at the time of appraisal.  Second, a mapping exercise will
be undertaken to see whether a different distribution of hamlets between CNC
villages will improve access.   Third, experiments will be c'rried out with
different approaches to service delivery in the hamlets--for eximple, employing
an additional helper to deliver the food supplement to the hamlet, or creating
a special Women's Working Group in the hamlet to help in education and service
provision.
The Health Component
3.26        TINP' s nutrition component has received more attention from observers
and evaluators than its health component, despite the fact that the latter
absorbed almost 50% of project costs, spent primarily on establishment of new
health sub-centers, and on additional drug supplies. As noted in paras 2.19-
2.21, these investments did not have a satisfactorily return in terms of
achieving targets levels of service coverage. The problem was that despite more
clinics and more supplies being available, cooperation between health workers and
CNWs in the field never really developed, and hence full advantage was not taken
of the potential for increased health service outreach offered by the newly
created network of CNCs.
3.27        Yet the software side of the health system was not neglected during
project preparation. Work routines were designed for health workers to regularly
visit the CNCs in their areas to provide support to CNWs. However, these visits
did not in general take place as planned; one indicator of this was the DEAR
evaluation's finding that only 28% of pregnant women knew the name of their
health worker, as against 69% for CNWs. The failure of health workers and CNWs
to work as a team in large measure explains low rates of ante-natal registration
and lower than anticipated coverage of interventions such as FST, vitamin A and
immunization. A weak health/nutrition coordination was partly the consequence
of poor relationships between staff in the state's departments of health and
social welfare in the early years of the project. But it is also a more general
problem, not unique to TINP or to Tamil Nadu and remaining equally unresolved in
the case of the ICDS program. The remainder of this section reviews seven lessons
suggested by the TINP experience for improving coordination.



- 15 -
3.28        First, the state government proposed a structural reform of its
departments of public health and social welfare to improve cooperation between
health and nutrition staff. Under the new structure being discussed at the time
of writing, all female staff in the field (CNWe and health workers, and their
respective supervisors) would be responsible to one officer at the district
level, reporting via the Community Health Nurse, who would act as project officer
at the block level. While separate departments of Public Health, Family Welfare
and Social Welfare would be retained at the state level, instructions to field
staff would be issued under the joint names of the three directors.
3.29        Second, it was recognized that the number of pregnant and lactating
women per health worker (about 125 in her population of 5,000) made it difficult
for her to provide adequate service to all.  It was therefore suggested that
tasks might be reallocated to give the CNW a greater role in the following areas:
* registration of antenatal cases
* iron supplementation
* maternal growth monitoring and supplementation
* birth spacing motivation
* identification of likely cases for birth spacing
? taking birth weights and referral of LBWA
* growth monitoring 0-6 month child and weaning education
* vitamin A supplementation
* identification of children for immunization
 follow-up of immunized children
* treatment of moderate and referral of severe ARI cases
3.30        The experience of the first project suggested that those tasks would
be within the competence of the CNW, and manageable given that each CNW would be
dealing with only about 30 pregnant and lactating women. It was hoped that the
increased asistance provided to the health worker--especially in her priority
areas of immunization and family planning--might encourage in return greater
cooperation from the health worker in providing the more complicated services for
which CNWs are not trained, for example:
* antenatal check-ups, identification of high risk pregnancies
* prescription of temporary contraceptive methods
* check-up of LBW babies, education for mothers
* immunization
* referrals of malnourished children with health problems
* referrals of severe ARI cases
3.31        Third, it was recognized that work routines needed to be redesigned
so as to provide a minimum, set (and hence monitorable) number of days * month
on which the health worker would visit the CNC to work jointly with the CWM. In
addition to the existing monthly immunization day, possibilities included setting
up a monthly 'mothers' day', on which ante- and post-natal cases could meet with
the health worker; or for the health worker to take advantage of thQ existing
monthly weighing days to do antenatal care and family planning work, and
providing health check-ups to children identified as malnourished.   Health
workers' regularity in making the minimum scheduled visits could be monitored by
both health and nutrition supervisors, and reviewed at monthly staff meetings.



- 16 _
3.32        Fourth, it might be desirable to decentralize the MCH record-keeping
system from the health center to the CNC, and to treat the CNC as a sort of
satellite health center, since this is where the majority of MCH services vould
actually be provided. This might both improve the accuracy of record-keeping,
and give the health worker an added incentive to visit the CNC.
3.33        Fifth, it was felt that a spirit of collaboration between health and
nutrition could be better built up by ioint training of the workers, than simply
by the issuance of new guidelines or instructions. This is discussed in more
detail below (paras 3.37 to 3.39). Fifth, just as joint work routines would be
developed for front line workers, it was felt that performance would be improved
if loint sunervision routines were developed for their immediate supervisors.
A minimum number of days a month, say eight, would be set aside for health and
nutrition supervisors to spend together with front line workers on days when the
front line workers from the two departments were themselves working together.
3.34        Sixth, new incentives and Drocedures for referrals needed to be
developed. Problems encountered in this area during the project included the
failure of mothers to take their referred children to the Primary Health Center
(PHC--the referral facility for each 30,000 population), and the absence of a
system for communicating doctors' diagnoses to health workers and CNWs so that
they  could  take  appropriate  follow-up  action.    Ideas  put  forward  for
experimentation during the second project included offering mothers a transport
allowance as an incentive to complete their and their children's referrals, and
development of a new referral slip with a detachable portion for the doctor's
diagnosis and treatment recommendations, which would be given to the mother to
show to the health worker and CNW.
3.35        Seventh, it was proposed to experiment in the second project with
strengthening the capacitv of PHCs and Community Health Centers (CHCs) to deal
with referral cases. At the PHC level it was proposed to supply additional
equipment and laboratory facilities, plus training in diagnosis and treatment for
doctors dealing with routine referrals. But it was recognized that the CHC (the
referral facility for every 100,000 population) was the lowest level in the
health system equipped to deal with cases of obstetrical risk and rehabilitation
of non-responding malnutrition cases, and that these were not set up for the
relatively long stays these cases typically require. It was therefore proposed
to experiment with the creation of 'MCH annexes', simple 10 or 12 bedded non-
hospital facilities where women could stay with a family member while waiting for
delivery, or while rehabilitating a severely malnourished child under the
supervision of a specialist.
3.36        In summary, therefore, the lesson from TINP was that large scale
investment in health infrastructure and supplies was not sufficient to improve
performance in the field, and maybe not necessary. The strategy suggested for
the follow-on project was to reduce investment in civil works in the health
sector, and to limit additional drug supplies to those needed to deal
specifically with the referral needs of the project's key target groups. At the
s:-me time, the aim would be to develop a package of mutually reinforcing measures
on the software side, which would both maximize health and nutrition workers'



- 17 -
incentive to cooperate, and make them more accountable for doing so.
Training and Supervision
3.37        TINP's training system for nutrition workers was innovative, cheap
and highly effective. Both pre- and in-service training of CNWe were carried out
at the block level, by a Community Nutrition Instructress (CNI), who was a full
time trainer/supervisor for that block. This system had a number of advantages
over training carried out in regional training centers, the pattern for most
field worker training in India:
(a)   the trainee was not disoriented by being taken out of her own
environment;
(b)   because  training took place in a borrowed room at the block
headquarters, with the trainees sitting on the floor, the learning
situation paralleled the situation in which workers would later be
training mothers;
(c)   trainees could be trained with other workers from the local area,
giving them the chance to share and solve local problems;
(d)   the trainer had the chance to build up a long term relationship with
the workers, and hence could tailor training to local needs and
individual problems;
(e)   evaluation of effectiveness of training was automatic and immediate,
since the trainer later helped supervise the workers;
(f)   training was cheap because there was no overhead of training
institutions, and minimal costs for transporting trainees to the
place of training; and
(g)   because training was local and cheap, in-service training could be
arranged quickly and as often as the needs of workers required.
Instead of each worker getting a standard amount of training, groups
of poorer performers could be singled out for special support.
3.38        This system contrasted with that for health worker training under
TINP, which relied on regional training institutions for in-service training.
Such training was infrequent. Joint training of CNWs and health workers was
carried out under TINP for the last ten days of the CNW's are-service training.
It is proposed under the follow-on project to expand the concept of block level
training to include joint in-service training for nutrition and health workers
for one week each six months.  In addition to imparting technical skills, this
would be an important intervention to encourage teamwork (para 3.33).
3.39        TINP's field supervision structure was one Community Nutrition
Supervisor (CNS) for every ten CNWs.   This ratio was chosen to allow the
supervisor to spend a full day a fortnight with each worker, in line with the



- 18 -
project's philosophy that supervision presented an opportunity for on the job
training rather than simply inspection.   Just as the Community Nutrition
Instructress was also a supervisor, so the Community Nutrition Supervisor was
also a trainer.  The high level of support to the workers arising from this
overlapping of the training and supervision function contrasts strongly with the
situation in India's ICDS and Family Welfare programs, and was a primary reason
for the high level of competence and motivation of CNWs.
The Communications and Community Participation ComDonent
3.40        TINP's communications  component was managed by a small staff
reporting to a Joint Director in the Project Coordination Office. The same staff
handled the preparation of materials for training under the project.  Outside
this unit, no department or institution existed in the state government to
oversee communications in the nutrition sector. For this reason, it was agreed
that a priority use for savings under TINP (see para 2.11) was to develop a
Communications Center, which would plan, monitor and evaluate information,
education and communication activities in the nutrition sector. As discussions
began on the formulation of the follow-on project, it was also agraed that as
TINP became a statewide program and staff training loads increased, there was a
need for a similar apex function for the planning, monitoring and evaluation of
training in the sector.   It was therefore decided to broaden the function of
this institution to become .? Communications and Training Center.
3.41        A very wide range of mass media materials was produced under the
communications components, including films, posters, wall paintings, hoarding,
pamphlets, folders, village theater scripts and folk tale stories.   DEAR's
project evaluation and an iadependent consultant st ly of the communications
compoaent (Ferguson, 1989' evaluated the reach of these various media and
concluded that posters and wail paintings had the greatest reach, while films had
the least because they were not so widely distributed.  The evaluations also
concluded that more use could be made of TV as a medium, in view of its rapidly
increasing reach in the stat67; rural areas. Neither study, however, attempted
to evaluate the effectivenesi. of the various media and messages developed in
terms of changing the knowledge, attitude or practice of project clients; this
work remains to be done before a detailed communications strategy for the follow-
on project can be produced.
3.42        The project placed great emphasis on interpersonal communication,
both through the CNWs and through the Women's Working Groups created in every
project village (see para 3.06). That the interpersonal communications effort
was in genera' successful is indicated by the DEAR evaluation's finding from its
client survey that there was a near universal understanding of the project's
objectives aznd the services it was supposed to provide, a high participation rate
in feeding (in most cases across caste barriers) for those eligible, and a
widespread understanding and acceptance of the concept of selective supplementary
feeding.
3.43        The WWGs had an important role in encouraging initial acceptance of
the project (para 3.06), and were extremaly active in participating in health and



- 19 -
nutrition education sessions, in carrying out cooking demonstrations and in
assisting at monthly weighing sessions. The large numbers, the active nature and
the sustained interest of these groups in the project all contrast strongly with
efforts to develop community involvement in other government-run health and
nutrition outreach programs in India. Part of the explanation for this success
may be attributed to differences between the status and education of women in
Tamil Nadu as compared to some northern states. But it seems clear that the high
degree of motivation of CNWs and the quality of their training in communication
were also key factors.
3.44        On the other hand, it appears that the outreach of the communication
effort was greater from the CNWs themselves than from the WWGs. Both evaluations
of the communications component concluded that the WWGs had a relatively small
impact in terms of passing on educational messages to mothers outside the group.
The same was true of the Children's Working Groups formed by many WWGs in the
project area. While the children in these groups quickly absorbed the key health
and nutrition messages they were taught, and many became adept participants in
dance, song and theater emphasizing these themes, there was little spin-off of
knowledge to children outside the group. Greater emphasis would therefore need
to be laid in the second project on training workers to train Working Group
members to be better educators of those outside their groups.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.45        Monitoring.  TINP's nutrition monitoring system was based on the
child cards, including growth charts, updated monthly by the CNWs. One of TINP's
achievements, noted both by the DEAR evaluation and a second independent
evaluation of the monitoring system (Rajagopalan and Vaidyanathan, 1989), was the
completeness of these records, and the accuracy of the information in them. This
is a further reflection of the effectiveness of the decentralized training
system, and the regularity of field supervision; one of the jobs of the CNS was
to carry out regular spot checks of the accuracy of a sample of children's
records at her CNCs. By the end of the project, Tamil Nadu's CNCs contained what
was probably the largest collection of high quality longitudinal child growth
data in the world. The State intends to collect a large sample of these data and
make them available to Indian and international researchers.
3.46        Two aspects of record-keeping at the CNC level may be particularly
useful for replication elsewhere, as a means of focussing worker attention on
priority clients and on performance.   First, child cards/growth charts were
stored not in registers but on shelves, with a pigeonhole for each grade of
malnutrition. Thus, for example, it was possible to pull out immediately all
records for severely malnourished children, and to keep track of grade shifts
simply by transfers of records from pigeonhole to pigeonhole. Second, monthly
performance at each CNC was publicly displayed on a standard chart on the CNC
wall (see annex one). At a glance, each worker, supervisor and Women's Working
Group member could see how the key nutrition indicators for the village were
moving, and how well the CNW was doing in getting services to the scheduled
castes as opposed to the general population.



- 20 -
3.47        The common weakness of the nutrition and health record-keeping
systems at the field level was that workers had to fill in too many reports and
registers.  At the time of writing, a state level committee was considering how
the system could be simplified for the follow-on project.   In addition, the
health monitoring system suffered from shortages of registers, so that health
workers spent unnecessary time making their own; and from a combination of high
staff turnover and infrequent in-service training, which meant that health
records were not always of consistent quality. The proposed expansion of block
level in-service training to the health workers should help to remedy the latter
problem.
3.48        Performance information was transmitted monthly via the Community
Nutrition Instructress and a monitoring cell at the district level to the
monitoring and evaluation unit in the project coordination office, headed by an
Assistant Director.   The processing of information was rapid;  block-wise
performance statistics were available to the project coordinator with a lag of
only one month. Each block's performance was compared to norms (see annex two),
and low-performing blocks were singled out for corrective measures. However,
according to the evaluation of the monitoring component, feedback to the field
consisted more of routine indications of failures to meet norms, than of
systematic efforts to find and deal with underlying causes of poor performance,
or to revise the norm if it was not applicable to a particular block. This is
an area that would require attention in the follow-on project.
3.49        Evaluation.  The project evaluation process was carefully designed.
A baseline survey was carried out in each project district before implementation
began. A first round evaluation of the initial project block was done in 1982;
a midterm evaluation covering the first project district was undertaken in 1984;
and the terminal evaluation was completed in early 1987. It is interesting to
note that midterm evaluations, now a routine part of the project cycle, were a
relatively new feature at the time TINP was designed.   both for reasons of
caution in committing resources to a new sector, and in order to allow rapid
feedback, IDA's Board of Directors had required midterm evaluations in the case
of all of the early nutrition projects, and after these midterm evaluations held
Board discussions of the first three projects.
3.50        In addition to these periodic evaluations, DEAR also carried out
nutrition surveillance continuously in the initial project block, and in a
control block. Soon after the project ended, a three day workshop, including a
field trip to the project area, was held in Tamil Nadu to review the project's
results and design; about a hundred representatives of the Indian nutrition
community participated. In addition to the terminal evaluation, six background
paper were commissioned for the workshop from local consultants (see Capoor and
Naik; Chatterjee; Ferguson; Ghosh; Joseph; Rajagopalan and Vaidyanathan).
3.51        DEAR's independent sample surveys in general confirmed the accuracy
of the data collected by CNWs on the clients they served.  But, because the
evaluations sampled the entire rural population and not just TINP's clients, they
also came up with critically important and hitherto unknown information about the
extent of exclusion (see para 3.15).  Partly because the midterm evaluation



- 21 -
findings were not ready until 1986, these findings were not acted on by project
management until work began on the design of the proposed follow-on project.
Nevertheless, many of the other major evaluation findings--for example, the
project's relative failure to reach pregnant women and deal with moderate
malnutrition--were clear both to project management and to IDA staff long before
the evaluations took place, because of the high quality of the project monitoring
data.
3.52        With hindsight,  it appears that both implementing and funding
agencies could have taken much earlier action to respond to these problems by
experimenting immediately with changes in project design, rather than waiting
until completion and the design of a follow-on project. It seems that TINP,
having taken a 'learning process' approach in its initial year in the pilot
project block, then largely froze its design during the expansion to the rest of
the state. The project's monitoring and evaluation system was not used to the
full for mid-course correction.
3.53        The DEAR data are of reasonably high quality, with the result that
more is known about the impact of TINP than of most nutrition projects around the
world. Nevertheless, the design and execution of the evaluation were weak in
several respects (Shekar, 1989), most importarzly with regard to measuring what
was happening to nutrition conditions in the rest of the state. This is because
the control area for the evaluation was only one block, which was merged into the
project after 40 months of implementation, during which a drought occurred.
Moreover, the pilot block had both substantially higher levels of initial
malnutrition and somewhat higher rainfall, irrigation, literacy rates and
dependency ratios; under these circumstances, steeper rates of decline of
malnutrition in the pilot block might have been expected.
3.54        Second, baseline and evaluation surveys were carried out at different
seasons. This is in particular likely to invalidate the evaluation's findings
with regard to declines in diarrhea incidence, which are probably overestimated.
Third, the surveys in pilot and control blocks were carried out by different
agencies using different sampling strategies. It also appears that while the
baseline and final surveys oversampled several population groups of particular
interest (households with maternal and infant deaths; pregnant and lactating
women; scheduled castes), no adjustment for this was made in the final analysis.
This no doubt helps to explain the less favorable results shown by the sample
evaluation data as compared to the project monitoring data.
3.55        Finally, the terminal evaluation focused mainly on impact, less on
project cost-effectiveness and the design of the project's software.   Two
additional studies would therefore be useful for the design of future nutrition
operations. First, a comparative study of TINP's cost-effectiveness vis-a-vis
nutrition education/supplementary feeding programs in other countries. Second,
a thorough documentation of those project software features with lessons for
other programs, in particular of CNW recruitment, ob design and work routines;
the nutrition training and supervision systems; the processes used to prepare
communities for the project and form and sustain women's groups; and the
organization of community-based supplementary food production.



- 22 -
Conclusion: Summary of Lessons Learned
3.56        Although TINP did not achieve all its goals, much good came of the
project, not least in terms of the unusual number of lessons it offer for the
design and implementation of other programs. Some of these lessons are technical
ones relating to the nutrition and health sectors.   But perhaps the most
important ones relate to the design of the project's software, and many of these
could be adapted and applied to the design of outreach programs in any of the
'people-oriented' sectors.
3.57        In the nutrition side, TINP showed that part time village workers,
if properly trained and supported, can substantially improve their community's
nutritional status. Second, the project demonstrated unambiguously that growth
monitoring is an effective and feasible intervention in large scale nutrition
programs.   Third, the project showed that targeted supplementation based on
growth faltering plus feeding of all severely malnourished children can
significantly reduce severe malnutrition; but that a move to feeding all
moderately malnourished children plus greater attention to maternal nutrition
seems necessary to make a substantial impact on moderate malnutrition.
3.58        On the health side, the main finding was that large scale investment
in health infrastructure and supplies is not sufficient to improve performance.
Complementary measures are needed on the software side which will maximize health
and nutrition workers' incentives to cooperate, and make them more accountable
for doing so.   TINP's experience suggested six or seven such measures for
experimentation in the proposed follow-on project.
3.59        TINP's most significant lessons for other outreach programs lie in
t.e design of the project's software on the nutrition side.  Key features for
replication include carefully defined recruitment criteria for local workers;
limitation of field worker tasks to what is manageable and high priority;
specification of daily and monthly work routines; the innovative decentralized
training system; supervisory ratios which facilitate on the job training; the use
of local women's groups to support project activities; the display of performance
information to clients and workers at the village nutrition center; and a
management information system which could rapidly detect performers falling below
established norms.
3.60        Overall, TINP can be viewed as an innovative and successful project,
showing that large scale, community level interventions in the social sectors can
work.   The lessons from the project are significant ones, and can help to
strengthen other outreach programs in India and elsewhere.



- 23 -
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III of the draft PCR with
request to prepare Part II. A reply has not been received.
a



- 24 -
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans or Credits
Credit No.          : 312-IN
Title               : First Population Project
Year of Approval    : 1972
Purpose             : The  project would:  (a)  support  an  urban  program
concentrating upon motivation and family planning
services to recently delivered mothers in urban areas;
(b) implement an optimal GOI program by providing all
the staff and facilities which the national family
planning program would provide if it had sufficient
resources; (c) support an intensive rural program
concentrating on recently delivered mothers in rural
areas; and (d) support nutrition component to determine
the effect that improved nutrition for infants and
mothers will have on the acceptance of family planning
services, and to test the best means of providing
nutrition.
Status              : The credit was closed on May 21,  1980.   Physical
components of the project were completed in March 1980.
Comments            : A Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 3748
dated August 1981) is available from the Asia
Information Center.
2. Project Timetable
Planned           Revised           Actual
Identification                                                 May 1978
Preparation Mission       September 1978                       October 1978
Appraisal Mission         March 1979                           July 30, 1979
Credit Negotiations       August 1979                          February 27, 1980
Board Approval            September 1979                       April 15, 1980
Credit Signing                                                 May 12, 1980
Credit Effectiveness                                           Aug. 5, 1980
Credit Closing            March 31, 1987    March 31, 1989    March 31, 1989
Project Completion        June 30, 1986      March 31, 1989    March 31, 1989



- 25 -
3. Credit Disbursements
---- (US$ million) ----               Actual as X
IDA FY   Quarter Ending    SAR Estimate          Actual            of Estimate
1981     September 1980         0.50
December 1980          1.20
March 1981             2.00
June 1981              2.90               1.13               38.97
1982     September 1981         3.80                1.56               41.05
December 1981          4.75               2.28               48.00
March 19821            5.73               2.67                46.64
June 1982              6.80               4.63               68.09
1983     September 1982         7.90                4.93               62.41
December 1982          9.15               5.10               55.74
March 1983            10.70               6.05               56.54
June 1983             12.45               7.91               63.53
1984     September 1983        14.35                8.03               55.96
December 1983         16.35               8.42               51.50
March 1984            18.55              10.81               58.27
June 1984             20.95              10.99               52.46
1985     September 1984        23.50               12.52               53.28
December 1984         26.20              12.97               49.50
March 1985            29.05              15.19                52.29
June 1985             32.00              16.74               52.31
1986     September 1985        32.00               17.14               53.56
December 1985         32.00              17.52               54.75
March 1986            32.00              20.37               63.66
June 1986             32.00              22.66               70.81
1987     September 1986        32.00               22.82               71.31
December 1986         32.00              23.25               72.66
March 1987            32.00              25.81               80.66
June 1987             32.00              26.14               81.69
1988     September 1987        32.00              26.31                82.22
December 1987         32.00              26.49               82.78
March 1988            32.00-             27.66               86.44
June 1988             32.00              28.41               88.78
1989     September 1988        32.00              28.41                88.78
December 1988         32.00              28.63                89.47
March 1989            32.00              29.49               92.16
June 1989             32.00              30.16               94.25
1990     September 1989        32.00              30.31                94.72
December 1989         32.00              31.98               99.94
Date of Final Disbursement: October 17, 1989



- 26 -
4. Proiect Results
Appraisal Targets                              Actual Achievements
Improve the nutrition and health               Reductions in severe malnutrition
conditions of preschool children,              varying from 24% to 37% among
with emphasis on those aged 6-36               children 6 to 36 months old.
months.                                        In the later phase of the project,
reduction of severe malnutrition
was higher, at about 55%.
Achieve a 25% reduction in the                 Infant mortality declined by 26%
infant mortality rate, estimated               to 29% in the blocks developed
at appraisal at 28 per 1,000.                  earlier, and by 12% to 13% in
Achieve a 25% reduction in                     the later phases of the project.
mortality rate of children between
the ages of one and four years,
estimated at appraisal at 28 per
1,000 children.
Reduce to 5Z the incidence of                  This was not evaluated directly.
Vitamin A deficiency in children               Less than 25% of all eligible
under five years of age, estimated             children received all due doses
at appraisal at up to 27%.                     of Vitamin A syrup, while 28% of
children had not received even
one dose. This poor performance
can partly be explained by
periodic shortages of Vitamin A.
Reduce to 20% the incidence of                 This was not evaluated directly.
nutritional anemia in pregnant and             Half of all eligible pregnant
nursing women, estimated at 55%                women had not received Ferrous
during appraisal.                              Sulfate tablets (FST) against
anemia, while only 18.5% had
received the right quantity of
FST. This poor performance can
partly be explained by quality
problems with the FST, leading
to their withdrawal at one point
by health component managers.



- 27 -
5.  Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs (USS million)
Appraisal
Items                                                        Estimate         Actual
Civil Works                                                     13.24          16.73
Vehicles, Equipment & Furniture                                  9.52           5.59
Training                                                         4.14           2.89
Contract Services & Technical Assistance                         3.26           0.59
Food Supplements                                                 8.88          12.04
Project Management Fund                                          0.67           2.36
Drugs and Supplies                                               7.93          11.80
Salaries and Allowances                                         15.12          23.77
Vehicle Operating Costs                                          0.82           0.26
Other Operating Costs                                            2.82           4.97
Total Project Costs                                             66.40          81.00
B. Prolect Financing (USS million)
Source       Expenditure Categories                           Planned         Actual
IDA          Civil Works                                         10.6          13.39
Vehicles, Equipment &Furnitur.                       7.5           4.47
Training                                             3.3           2.31
Contract Services & Technical Assistance             2.6           0.47
Project Management Fund                              0.5           1.89
Drugs and Supplies                                   6.3           9.44
Unallocated                                          1.2          0.00
32.0         31.97
DOMESTIC     Subtotal                                            34.4          49.03
TOTAL                                               66.4         81.00



- 28 -
6. Status of Covenants
Project
Agreement
Section                                          Subject                                                      Status
2.05 (a)     Tamil Nadu shall promptly furnish to IDA the plans, specifications, reports, contract           OK
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project.
2.05 (b)     Tamil Nadu shall:
(i)  maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor Project progress;          OK
(ii)  enable IDA's representatives to examine Project facilities and construction              OK
sites and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to IDA regularly all such information as IDA shall reasonably request            OK
concerning the Project, its cost and benefits, and expenditures from the Credit
proceeds.
2.05 (c)     Not later than six months after Project Closing Date or such later date as may be               OK
agreed for this purpose with IDA, Tamil Nadu shadl prepare and furnish to IDA a
project execution report.
2.08         Tamil Nadu shall:
(a)  carry out review of Project execution (i) one year after Project services have            OK
been introduced in Kottampatti block; and (ii) after Project services have been
introduced in about 70 blocks, but not later than March 31, 1983, such reviews to be
under TORs satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and IDA, and shall furnish IDA with the review
results.
(b)  take into account in the review to be carried out under paragraph (a)(ii) above           OK
the evaluation of mobile medical teams in Tamil Nadu being undertaken by the National
Institute of Health and Family Welfare and the results of other pilot projects and
studies with respect to ways to introduce community health and nutrition services in
Tamil Nadu.
2.10         Tamil Nadu shall, not later than December 31, 1980. establish an Advisory Panel on             OK. Panel
Evaluation in order to review and conment on the evaluation of the Project.                    est 2/81
2.11         Tamil Nadu shall, not later than August 31, 1980, prepare and furnish to IDA for its            OK
comments curricula for training of staff, and shall thereafter carry out said training
in accordance with such curricula, taking into account IDA's comments.
2.12         Tamil Nadu shall, not later than June 30, 1981. carry out and furnish to IDA for its            OK.
comments, a study designed to identify ways of improving selection, procurement and           Completrd
delivery of drugs and medicines for primary health centers and health sub-centers.             4/9/82
2.13         Tamil Nadu shall, not later than August 31. 1980, establish within the Directorate of           OK.
Public Health, a post of Deputy Director (Training), and appoint thereto an officer          Compliance
with suitable qualifications and experience.                                                    9/30/81
2.14         Tamil Nadu will seek and obtain IDA's approval for each expenditure in excess of                OK
$50,000 equivalent to be made out of the proceeds of the Project Management Fund.
2.15         Tamil Nadu to apply selection criteria satisfactorv to Tamil Nadu and IDA for                   OK
beneficiaries of the food supplement program under Part A of the Project.
2.16         Tamil Nadu to carry out the final evaluation study under Part D of the Project under            OK
terns of reference satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and IDA.
3.01         Tamil Nadu to maintain adequate accounting records in respect of the Project, of the            OK
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
3.02         Tamil Nadu shall have its accounts and financial statements in respect of the Project           OK
audited each fiscal year by auditors acceptable to IDA. and furnish to IDA not later
than nine months after the end of fiscal year certified copies of said audit reports.



- 29 -
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff and Consultant Inputs
Stage of Prolect Cycle                                        Actual No. of Staffweeks
Through Appraisal      ..........................................         103.0
Appraisal through Board Approval .30.0
Board Approval through Effectiveness .14.0
Supervision .208.3
B. Missions
No. of         Days         Specialization          Performance Rating      Types of
10nth/Year             Persons      in Field       Regresented j/               Status             Problems 3/
Through Appraisal:
May 1978                  9             21          NTR,AGR,ECN,ARC
August 1978               1             19          NTR
October 1978              6             28          NTR,AGR.ECN.HLT,COH
March 1979                8             21          NTR,ECN.HLT
July 1979                 7             21          NTR.ECN.HLT.ARC
Appraisal through
Board Approval:
January 1980              2             7           NTR
Supervision:
May 1930                  4             15          NTR.MSP,ARC                       1             M,P
November 1980             4             15          NTR.HLT.COM                       2             M
July 1981                 4             15          NTR,H&E,HLT                      2              M,P
April 1982                4             14          NTR,HLT,M&E                       2             M
October 1982              2             13          NTR,M&E                           2             T,M
June 1983                 5             16          NTR,COM,ARC,M&E                   2             T.M
October 1983              4             11          NTR,COM,ARC,M&E                   2             M
May 1984                  5             15          NTR.M&E,ARC.HLT                   I             T,M
March 1985                5             15          HLT,M&E.ARC                       2             M
September 1985            4             13          HLT,ARC,NTR                      2              M
June 1986                 4             14          HLT,NTR.ARC,ECN                  2
December 1986             3             10          HLT.ECN.ARC                      2              M
May 1987                  3             14          NTR,HLT                           2             M
February 1988             2             10          NTR,ECN                          2
1/ NTR - Nutrition Specialist; AGR - Agriculturist; ECN - Economist; ARC - Architect; HLT - Health Specialist
COM - Communications Specialist; MSP - Management Specialist; M&E - Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist
2/ 1 - Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems
3/ M - Management; T - Technical



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
TINP'S COMMUhITY NUTRITION CENTER
SUMMARY PERFORMANCE CHART
Total    Sched.
Pop      Caste
1.   Population of Area
2.   No. children 0-3
3.   No. children 0-3 weighed last month
4.   No. children enrolled for feeding
5.   No. children coming for feeding
6.   No. with grade 3 and grade 4 malnutrition
7.   No. graduated out of severe malnutrition
8.   No. of children losing or with static weight
9.   No. of children under special observation
10.   No. of 9 coming into feeding program
11.   No of children graduating from program last month
12.   No. of children relapsing into program this month
13.   No. of mothers receiving ante-natal care.



- 32 -
ANEX 2
Thresholds Indicating Poor Performance
Percent of persons
Indicator                                               weighed
1.   Coverage of children receiving supplement           Less than  202
2.    Coverage of number of children weighed             Lose than 802
3.    Coverage of Grade III & IV children
among weighed                                      More than 10Z
4.    Coverage of children entering the feeding
programe every month to total children
weighed                                            Less than 22
5.    Coverage of children under feeding for
more than 3 months                                 More than 401
6.    Coverage of children under feeding for
more than 6 months                                 More than 201
7.    Children graduated in 90 days of feeding           Less than 501
8.    Total children graduated                           Less than 301
9.    Children first relapsed during the month
to children graduated during the past
6 months                                           More than 32
10.   Covera'e of pregnant women entering the
feeding programme to total pregnant and
lactating women (eligible for feeding)             Less than 1%
11.  Coverage of pregnant and lactating women
receiving supplement                               Less than 101
12.   Coverage of distribution of vitamin A to
children 6-36 months during last 6 months          Less than 301
13.   Coverage of administration of deworming
during the month                                   Less than 40Z



- 33 -
REFERENCES
Capoor, I. and Naik, P. Focus on Aspects of Training in TINP. Mimeo, 1989.
Chatterjee, M.  On the Nutrition Component of TINPs Some Lessons and Issues.
Mimeo, 1989.
Chidambaram, G. Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project--Terminal Evaluation (2
Vols). Govt. of Tamil Nadu, 1989.
Dapice, D. A Cost Study of ICDS and TINP. Mimeo, 1988.
Evaluation and Applied Research Department, Govt. of Tamil Nadu. Mid-Term Imnact
Evaluation Report of Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project. KottamDatti Block-
-Phase 1. TINP, 1984.
Ferguson, A. F. and Co. Study on Effectiveness of Communication Component.
Mimeo, 1989.
Chosh, S. The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project. Health Inputs. Mimeo,
1989.
Joseph, A. Scope for Community Participation. Mimeo, 1989.
Rajagopalan, S. and Vaidyanathan, K.E. Management Information System of Tamil
Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project: An Appraisal. Mimeo, 1989.
Raj ivan, A.K. Report on Pattern of Graduation in Different Feeding Durations and
Relapse of Children to Feeding at Different Ages. Mimeo, undated.
Shekar, M. The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project. A Review of the Project
with Special Emphasis on the Monitoring and Information System. Mimeo, 1989.
World Bank.   India: Staff Appraisal of a Nutrition Project in Tamil Nadu.
Unpubd. 1980.



