Document of                                 Aft!
The World Bank                   FULE  vur
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2753-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
March 27, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 21, 1980)
Rs 1.00         =   Paise 100
US$1.00         =   Rs 8.168215
Rs 1.00         =   US$0.12242
Rs 1,000,000        US$122,420
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now floating,
the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to
Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ANM   -   Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
CARE  -   Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CNC   -   Community Nutrition Center
CNW   -   Community Nutrition Worker
GDP   -   Gross Domestic Product
GOI   -   Government of India
GOTN  -   Government of Tamil Nadu
HSi   -   Health Sub-Center
km    -   square kilometer
MPHW  -   Multi-Purpose Health Worker
NRR   -   Net Reproduction Rate
PHC   -   Primary Health Center
POJx   -   Petroleum
Rs    -   Rupees
TNNS  -   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study
UbAID -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            india, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       The State of Tamil Nadu.
Amount:              US$32 million equivalent.
Relending Terms:    From GOI to Tamil Nadu as part of Central Assistance
to State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project
Description:        The project would support:  (i) a system of nutrition
surveillance for children aged 6-36 months in six
Districts of Tamil Nadu; (ii) a selective program of
food supplementation to counter or avert energy-protein
malnutrition in children in the target group as well as
pregnant and nursing women, combined with a supple-
mentation program to protect against Vitamin A deficiency
and iron deficiency anemia; (iii) an expansion in the
scope and coverage of rural health services in the project
area, with particular attention to improved maternal and
child health care; (iv) combined mass media and face-to-
face communications efforts to improve food habits and
child care practices among the target population; and
(v) studies, surveys and analysis of the impact of project
activities and their relationship to other nutrition and
health programs in the State.
Estimated Project                                           (US$ Millions)
Costs:                                               Local  Foreign  Total
Nutrition Delivery Services       20.6    1.4       22.0
Rural Health Services             15.5    4.5       20.0
Nutrition Communications           2.9      -        2.9
Monitoring and Evaluation           1.0     -        1.0
Project Coordination               1.0    0.1        1.1
Base Cost                      41.0    6.0      47.0
Physical Contingencies             2.2    0.6        2.8
Price Contingencies               14.5    2.1       16.6
Total Project Cost              57.7    8.7       66.4
Taxes and Duties                   1.9      -        1.9
Project Cost Net of Taxes
and Duties                      55.8    8.7      64.5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan: 1/                                   (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                         23.3      8.7      32.0
GOI/GOTN                    32.5       -       32.5
Total                 55.8      8.7       64.5
Estimated                                    (US$ Millions)
Disbursements:                     FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
Annual           2.9   3.9   5.7   8.5  11.0
Cumulative       2.9   6.8  12.5  21.0  32.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2762-IN, dated March 27, 1980.
1/   Net of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$32.0 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a US$66.4 million project to strengthen the nutrition
intervention and rural health systems in six Districts of the State of Tamil
Nadu. The proceeds of this credit would be channelled to the Government of
Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and
arrangements for financing State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period.  Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells
Project (Report No. P-2746-IN), dated March 20, 1980.



-2-
in 1951 to the currenit high level of 22%.  Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period.  Fore-ig&n savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage oif foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period.  External assistancE, has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly---5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the i970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77.  During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%.  Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditaTble given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
.ndustrial output grelw by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over thie four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4D4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher  han -The longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world innflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half o-r the 1979/80 fiscal year.  The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18,4% above that or the previous September.  Together, the
rise in the pmr-ces oz food products3 crude petroleurn and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thE---   5  the increase in the index.  However, prices of almost
all comoditie- M-roi U'D _p  : ni-'ficantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase- -i - - -rce s of the residual commodities.  Government attempts
to regulate ttle -l            ice or co=mnodities like sugar and edible oils,
cllinrgs on o.           -ent of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn
the fruit ard vg:esa       ices after summer helped the wholesale price
rinex to level o--f aft-er September.  However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal facto-fc -ri'e  are sCilI risirng at approximately an 18% annual rate.



-3-
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops.  The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 13-15 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 17-20 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand.  During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth



-4-
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable coniditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter
of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year.
However, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely
to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates. As a
result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves
sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports covered by
reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plarn are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemploymtent and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.



According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself wel- justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long



- 6 -
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange posjition. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past: two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,



-7-
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the Lirth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family w..fare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,263 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,044 million had been



-8-
repaid, and US$3,186 million was still undisbursed. as of January 31, 1980.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of January 31, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.5 million, US$24.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output: in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities.  The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.



- 9 J
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated. Io India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
January 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,525 million, of which US$600 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$925 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - NUTRITION AND HEALTH IN TAMIL NADU
26.       The State of Tamil Nadu is located in southeast rn India, facing
the Bay of Bengal. Covering an area of nearly 130,000 km , Tamil Nadu had
a population estimated at 46.8 million in early 1979, approximately 7.4% of
the estimated total population of India, making it the third most densely
populated State in the country. Estimated average annual per capita income
in Tamil Nadu over the period 1973/74-1975/76 was approximately US$118 equiv-
alent (roughly equal to the all-India mean per capita income), which placed
Tamil Nadu ninth in rank by per capita income among India's States.
Nutrition in Tamil Nadu
27.       Despite its middle-range ranking in per capita income among the
States of India, estimates of per capita daily calorie intake in Tamil Nadu
place it fifteenth among the sixteen major States ranked by the National
Sample Survey. Estimated per capita calorie consumption in Tamil Nadu for
1973/74 was 2,036, compared to the national average of 2,263 and recommended
daily consumption of 2,400. Rural per capita calorie consumption in Tamil
Nadu was estimated at 2,012 for the same period, against a national average
of 2,328. The situation in urban areas was somewhat better, with per capita
daily calorie intake estimated at 2,092 in Tamil Nadu relative to a national
average of 2,003.
28.       The State's low nutritional status relative to per capita income
and the existence of somewhat more serious nutritional deficiencies in rural



- 10 -
as opposed to urban areas (which runs counter to the national pattern) seem
to be largely attributable to heavy population pressures in relation to
cultivable land and to substantial income inequalities. Approximately
50% of the agricultural labor force in Tamil Nadu is landless, one of the
highest- proportions in India.  Moreover, of existing landholdings, close
to 60% are less than one 'nectare in size. As a result of these and other
factors, an average of 58% of the rural population was estimated to be below
the absolute poverty level over the period 1957/58-1973/74, compared to an
all-India average of 50%.  Finally, the State has an overall unemployment rate
of 19%, the highest of India's States, and a very high level of rural, seasonal
unemployment-
29.        The Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study (TNNS), conducted in 1970-73 under
the auaspices of the Central and State Governments and USAID, confirmed that
calorie-protein malnutrition in the State is widespread and often severe,
particularly among pre-school children and pregnant and nursing women.
It esticmatad that nearly half of the families in rural Tamil Nadu consume
less tha.n 80% of their ca'lorie needs.  Moreover, according to TNNS estimates,
malnourishment was a leading or associated cause of approximately 75% of the
deaths of children under l hree years of age in Tami'L Nadu, the age group which
in turn accounts for approximately 90% of all pre-school child mortality in
the State. This study, aLong with a number of others conducted in the State,
also identified a number of specific nutritional deficiencies prevalent in
Tamil Nadu, among them  a high degree of Vitamin A deficiency (which can lead
to inparrn.nt of vision or even blindness) among pre-school children, as well
as anemia among pregnant and nursing women, caused by iron and folate acid
derficiency a
30.        The principal policy-relevant conclusions of the Tamil Nadu Nutri-
tion Study were that:  (i) the highest-priority target group for nutrition
intervention is the group of weaning children under three years of age;
(ii) pregnant and nursing women constitute the second highest priority group,
view of      relationsh. p their nutritional status bears to the health and
o-rowth of infrts  (        while protein deficiencies are in evidence, the most
pressir.g  nee' arnong t'ne mainourished is for increased calorie consumption;
and (iv) f-a'-  l ood habits (e.g., intra-family food distribution and cha-
racteristics of -'ood oriered weaning children) are major determinants of the
-s pr --school children in Tamil Nadu, where nutritional.
s -  E  <ie s -7-aiOcofLl  during weaning across all family income levels.
____                        t  ,4utrition-Related Programs in the State
31  'h ovalof Tamil Nadu has long been concerned with nutrition
--ecss; for dealing with these problems consists of continuing
I _; -    p-rocuction, reduce income inequality and increase
e-lce 1     --     ^     r-'  more immediate programs to directly address health
nl C I .s le longer-term development efforts take hold.
Si    3   C c - rodc-,_cticin program has already produced positive results.
?--r se-a _         v =     ie~--s are among the highest in India due to widespread adop-
.ing var,eties.  Tamil Nadu ranks second only to Punjab in
a        - ': n- 'f..-' OI fertilizer, and has exploited approximately 75% of
----:s  11 .  i-            Over the course of the current Five-Year Plan the
`      o-,Oks t  continued advances in agricultural productivity,



- 11 -
animal husbandry, and labor-intensive rural public works programs to increase
employment and raise incomes in rural areas.
32.      Tdhile continuing its investments in these long-term development
efforts, the State Government has also initiated a number of programs to deal
directly and immediately with childhood malnutrition. Tamil N- lu currently
spends approximately US$8.8 million per year on approximately 25 nutrition
programs, most of which involve regular food supplements to beneficiaries. 1/
Chief among these is a mid-day meal program, operated by the Education Depart-
ment, which provides school lunches for 200 days each year to approximately
two million school-age children. A number of other smaller localized programs
provide food supplements to pre-school children and mothers, mainly in child-
care centers spread throughout urban and rural Tamil Nadu.
33.       The State Government has recognized, however, that the network of
nutrition programs in the State suffers from a number of deficiencies. First
of all, these programs now reach an estimated maximum of 10% of the total
population of children under six and a smaller proportion of pregnant and
lactating women in the State, thus falling significantly short of serving the
proportion of these groups showing serious nutritional deficiencies. Second,
most of the existing programs have failed to reach significant numbers of
children under three years of age, the group considered to be at greatest
nutritional risk. In cases where children under three are served, they are
typically provided an inappropriate food supplement which is too coarse and
bulky for young children to consume. Third, weaknesses in designing and adher-
ing to appropriate nutritional criteria for selecting beneficiaries reduce the
ability of these programs to serve those at highest nutritional risk. Fourth,
once enrolled in a food supplement program, children are generally fed for
200-300 days per year until they reach the upper bound of the eligible age
group for a given program, without regard to the fact that they may have
"graduated' to a satisfactory nutritional status. (In fact, studies have shown
that 90-120 days of properly-formulated nutritional supplementation is gener-
ally adequate to restore a malnourished child to a normal weight gain pattern.)
This prolonged feeding period renders the existing programs very expensive per
child served and limits their suitability for replication throughout the
State. Fifth, meals provided under these long-term public feeding programs,
while intended to supplement the food a child or pregnant or nursing woman
would normally receive at home, are often substituted for food taken at home,
resulting in little incremental food intake. And finally, most of these
programs have accomplished little by way of altering family food habits, which
would be required to adequately protect both direct beneficiaries as well as
other children in the family. As the Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study pointed out,
the greatest hope for early, sustained improvements in nutrition among pre-
school children in Tamil Nadu lies in success in improving family food habits,
which now perpetuate malnutrition in weaning children at all income levels.
1/   The State Government's nutrition expenditures are supplemented by contri-
butions from the Central Government, which finances purchased inputs
required to supplement donated CARE foodstuffs as well as processing
costs for food supplements.



Tamil Nadu's Health Service System
34.       Health care at the village a^{ b lck l  leve/ -n Taml.n Nadu is cur-
rently provided by a network of mate            or.-s4 responsible for relatively
autonomous, single-purpose programs.  sucil as -       zation and cotroll Of indi-
vidual communicable diseases, complemented by a network of female auxiliary-
nurse midwives (ANMs), who conrentrate -o.Dn              care, Male health workers
(summing across all functions) are denlOved at a raJo of approximately 1/5,000
population. ANMs, on the other hand, typically serve a popu'ation of approx-
imatelv 10,000, spread ovar an area ranging from 36 to 50 kx .  Both male
health workers and ANMs work out of H-lealth Sub-Centers (HSCs), which serve
an average population of 10,000 2/ each and may refer patients to more fully
equipped and staffed Primary Health Centers (PHCs) at the block level.
35.       One of the primary deficiencies of this system has proven to be
the inability of the ANEls to provide adequate maternal and child health care
to the populations they are intended to serve. This is due to the magnitude
and geographical spread of the populations to which they are assigned, combined
with inadequacies in training, supervision, mobility and supply of medicines.
The inadequacy of existing maternal and child health care inhibits, among
other things, the control of infectious diseases and diarrhea, which exacer-
bate nutritional problems among infants and young children. With the inten-
tion of improving the coherence, efficiency and coverage of health care in the
State, and in particular the quality of maternal anci child health care, the
Government of Tamil Nadu has decided to alter the health care structure by
introducing a system of male and female multipurpose health workers, in
general accordance with the suggested all-India patt:ern now being implemented
in a number of other States. Existing male single--purpose health workers are
being retrained to provide a comprehensive range of: services to an area
covering a population of approximately 5,000 each. Existing ANMs will also be
retrained to provide better maternal and child health care, in addition to
obstetrical care, and would be assigned, along with their male counterparts,
to serve a population of n1o more than 5,000 each. I:n order to accomplish the
proposed reduction irn the population to be served by each female health
worker, a substantial number of new female health wTorkers will be recruited
and trained. Finally, the number of Health Sub-Centers in rural Tamil Nadu
will be increased significantly, with the objective of providing one HSC per
5,000 population (as agairist the current ratio of 1/10,000). The State
Government plans to introduce these changes in a phesed manner, beginning in
the areas to be served under the proposed project, both because of staff
constraints and to permit operational refinements based on experience in
project areas.
36.       This revised primary health care system differs from the pattern
adopted in a number of Incia's States in that it does not include a part-time
I/   A block is an administrative subdivision of a District which covers
approximately 100,000 people.
2/   HSCs and ANMs in the project area typically serve a population of
12,500 -- significantly higher than the all-State average.



- 13 -
community health worker at the village level. The Government of Tamil Nadu
has chosen to test a number of alternatives to the community health worker
concept adopted elsewhere. Chief among these is the alterntive the State
would implement through the proposed project, which is based on the combined
use of multi-purpose health workers and village-based community nutrition
workers (see rqra 41 below). These community nutrition workers, although
trained and supervised by the Social Welfare Department, would coordinate
their activities closely with health personnel, and are seen by the State
Government as a critical support to the multi-purpose health worker structure.
The State Government views this service network as a particularly promising
way of providing functionally integrated village nutrition and health care
while preserving the administrative responsibility of the Department of Social
Welfare for delivery of nutrition services, in accordance with national
policy. A second approach involves the deployment of PHC-based mobile medical
teams, each headed by a physician, which visit villages on a regular schedule.
Evaluation of this program, which operates in 28 of the State's 373 blocks, is
being carried out by the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare and
is nearing completion. A third approach to be tested, now getting underway on
a limited scale, involves matching grants to voluntary agencies willing to
assist communities in organizing and operating their own health centers, each
staffed by a part-time physician and paraprofessionals. The effectiveness of
the combined network of multi-purpose health workers and community nutrition
workers supported by the proposed project in providing adequate and well-
coordinated village-level health and nutrition services will be kept under
continual review throughout the project period. Should evaluation reveal
service gaps at the village level, adjustments to the complementary health and
nutrition service systems will be made in consultation with IDA, taking into
account experience gained with the other service alternatives being tested
elsewhere in the State and with adequate safeguards taken to protect the
efficiency, quality, and level of nutrition and health services in the project
area and to prevent duplication of services at the village level (Sections
2.08 and 2.09, Project Agreement).
Bank Group Activities in Tamil Nadu
37.       While this is the first project aimed directly at nutrition and
health in Tamil Nadu, a number of Bank Group activities have benefitted the
State. Among these are Loan 199-IN for the Port of Madras, Credit 250-IN for
agricultural credit, Credit 687-IN for urban development in Madras (the
capital of Tamil Nadu), and Credit 720-IN for the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation
Project. The Madras Urban Development Project includes a maternal and child
health care component which, on the completion of the required civil works,
will operate, on a small-scale and in an urban environment, services similar
to those to be introduced in rural areas under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited
India in August 1979. A report entitled the "Appraisal of the Tamil Nadu
Nutrition Project (No. 2762-IN, dated March 27, 1980) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
in February 1980. The Government of India and the Government of Tamil Nadu



- 14 -
were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. B.S. Lamba, Deputy Sec-
retary, Department of Eccnomic Affairs, Government of India (GOI).
Project Description
39.       The proposed project is designed primarily to improve the nutrition
and health status of children and pregnant and nursing women in rural areas
of six Districts of the State of Tamil Nadu. It would seek to accomplish this
by introducing a cost-effective, replicable system of nutrition surveillance,
nutrition education, and food, vitamin, and mineral supplementation, and by
supporting the reorganization of the health care system in these Districts to
improve the efficiency and coverage of rural health services, with particular
emphasis on improving the system of maternal and child health care and the
prevention and treatment of nutrition-related diseases. The program of
nutrition surveillance and food supplementation for children would concentrate
on children between 6 and 36 months of age, the most vulnerable age group,
would provide supplements only as long as required for a child to achieve
adequate nutritional recovery, and would be accompanied by intensive nutrition
education of key family members designed to encourage adoption of affordable
home feeding practices which would ensure the child's continued nutritional
well-being. The specific quantitative objectives of the Government of Tamil
Nadu (GOTN) are (i) to reduce by 50% over the project period the incidence of
protein-energy malnutrition among children under three years of age in the
project area; (ii) to achieve a 25% reduction in project areas in both the
infant mortality rate, now estimated by GOTN at 125 per 1,000, and the child-
hood mortality rate, now estimated at 28 per 1,000 for children between one
and four years of age; (iii) to reduce to 5% the currently estimated 27%
incidence of Vitamin A deficiency in children under five years of age; and
(iv) to reduce to 20% the currently estimated 55% incidence of nutritional
anemia in pregnant and nursing women.
40.       The project would be implemented in the rural areas of six Districts
of the State considered to have among the most serious nutritional problems --
Chengalpattu, Madurai, North Arcot, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, and Tirunelveli.
Services offered under the project would be phased in gradually over a period
of five years on a block-by-block basis. A formal review of project imple-
mentation would take place at the end of one year's operation of the service
program in one pilot block, and again at the end of the third year, after
initiation of the service program in approximately 70 blocks, to guide further
project implementation and indicate any changes required in system design.
41.       The project wou:Ld consist of the four components outlined below.
(a)  Nutrition Delivery Services.  (Estimated Cost: 1/  US$22.0 million).
This component would support the establishment, supply, and operation of
approzimately 9,000 Community Nutrition Centers (CNCs) at a ratio of approxi-
macely one CNC/1,500 population, the average size of: a village in Tamil Nadu.
CNCs Jould oe established in existing buildings rented by the Department of
Social W elfrae and would be staffed by one full-time female Community Nutri-
Worie-' and one helper each, both recruited fromi the village they would
1,J  Net of contLingencies.



- 15 -
serve. Community Nutrition Workers would receive two months' initial training
and would attend semi-monthly in-service training sessions. Each Community
Nutrition Worker would monitor the nutritional status of children aged 6-36
months in her village 1/; provide on-site, short-term food supplements,
produced under the project, to eligible children and pregnant and nursing
women at highest nutritional risk; distribute vitamin and min-ral supplements
to combat specific nutrient deficiencies, deworming medicaticZs, and prep-
arations to combat dehydration resulting from diarrhea; organize talks and
demonstrations for village women to promote better weaning and child-feeding
practices and to discuss other nutrition-related topics; and maintain village
health and nutrition records. She would be supervised by a nutrition super-
visor from the Department of Social Welfare (one supervisor per 10 Community
Nutrition Workers), who would oversee the selection of children for the food
supplement program and ensure an adequate supply of deworming and diarrhea
medication and vitamin, mineral and food supplements.
Food supplementation would be provided for an initial period of 90
days to children selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation (Section 2.15, Project Agreement). Most children are expected to be
discharged from the supplementation program after this initial feeding period.
Those who fail to gain sufficient weight would be referred to the nearest
Primary Health Center for examination (as their failure to gain weight might
indicate serious health disorders) and would continue in the program in 30 day
increments, up to a maximum of six months of continued supplementation. This
ceiling on the supplementation period is considered essential to ensure that
only those children who can benefit from the supplement receive it and that
families do not use the supplement as a long-term substitute for home-feeding.
Children who exit from the supplementation program will continue to be moni-
tored and will be re-entered in the program in the event of relapse. A relapse
rate of 20% has been estimated on the basis of experience gained elsewhere with
comparable food supplementation/nutrition education/health programs.
(b) Rural Health Services. (Estimated Cost: US$20.0 million). This
component would support the introduction of the multi-purpose health worker
(MPHW) system (see para 35 above) in project areas. It would finance the con-
struction and equipping of approximately 1,600 Health Sub-Centers, as well as
facilities for re-training existing ANMs to function as female MPHWs, for
training newly-recruited female MPHWs, for training additional health super-
visors required for the proper operation of the new system, and for providing
in-service training to public health doctors and nurses to orient them to the
new health service system and assure sustained quality of service. 2/ It would
also provide equipment and supplies for MPHWs and vehicles for use by field
staff and supervisory personnel and would finance the incremental staff and
operating costs incurred in the establishment of the MPHW system. Finally,
the component would support the establishment of a small food quality control
1/   Through monthly weighings and application of criteria based on rate
of weight gain and/or a combination of anthropometric measures.
2/   The State Government would use existing training facilities and instruc-
tors to retrain existing male health workers in order to prepare them
to carry out their expanded duties under the MPHW system.



- 16 -
laboratory in the Health Department to monitor the quality of the food supple-
ments produced and distributed under the project-supported nutrition program.
(c) Nutrition and Health Communications. (Estimated Cost: US$2.9
million).  The primary focus of this component would be the developmenL and
distribution of printed materials, radio advertisements, short films (for
screening through the State's extensive network of rural cinemas), and folk
dramas designed to encourage families to adopt a limited number of specific
practices to improve the nutritional status of young children.  These would
include timely introduction of semi-solid foods to supplement breast milk,
feeding instead of withho-Lding food from sick children, increasing the home
food ration to children under three, and home rehydration of children with
diarrhea -- all practices considered to be feasible within existing family
income and food availabil-ity constraints, as they could be accomplished by
small shifts in intra-fami.ly food distribution. The component would also
support the preparation of pre- and in-service trairning materials for nutrition
and health workers and educational materials to be used by nutrition and
health personnel in their contacts with the communities they serve.
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation. (Estimated Cost: US$991,000). Monitor-
ing of project activities would be carried out by each executing agency and
coordinated by a monitoring unit in the Project Coordination Office (see paras
42 and 43 below). Performance monitoring would measure the pace and cost of
project-supported activities and focus on the identification of bottlenecks
and their causes and determination of suitable steps to correct service defi-
ciencies. Evaluation of the impact of the project on beneficiary groups would
be the responsibility of a special unit within the Directorate of Evaluation
and Applied Research of the Finance Department (GOTNI), which would carry out
base-line and annual follow-up sample surveys of the nutrition and health
status of target groups, periodic reviews of the appropriateness of training
for nutrition and health workers, and special monitoring and evaluation studies
relating to the efficiency, costs and impact of project-supported activities,
including comparison of these activities to those supported through other
State-financed nutrition programs. The evaluation unit would also undertake
major reviews of project operations, costs and outcomes after introduction
of the proposed nutrition and health service systems in a test block (during
the first year of project implementation), after introduction of the nutrition
and health systems in about 70 of the 170 project blocks (after the third year
of project implementation), and at the end of the final year of the project
implementation period. The initial, mid-term, and final evaluations would be
conducted under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The
initial and mid-term reviews would take into account, inter alia, the results
of the on-going evaluation of the State's mobile medical team system as well
as experience with other approaches to providing village-based health services,
and would be used as a basis for any adjustments to the design or implement-
ation schedule of the project deemed necessary by the State Government and IDA
(Sections 2.08 and 2.16, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
42.       Implementation of the project would be monitored and coordinated
at the State level by a Project Coordination Office in the State Government



- 17 -
Secretariat. The professional staff of this office would consist of a project
coordinator, a joint coordinator for the nutrition communications program, a
monitoring officer, a senior accounts officer, an administrative officer, and
two computer programmers. Vehicles, equipment, and staff and operating costs
for this office would be financed under the project. The project coordinator
would report irectly to the Secretary, Social Welfare (who has been designate
Chief Project Coordinator) and would also act as Member-Secretary of an
inter-departmental project oversight committee to be chaired by the Chief
Secretary (GOTN) and composed of the Secretaries of the State Government
Departments responsible for project execution or related State Government
programs. In addition to these two State-level coordinating authorities,
inter-departmental project committees would be established at the block
and District levels to monitor project progress and ensure inter-agency
coordination.
43.       The Project Coordination Office would review annual and quarterly
budgets and work programs for all project Districts and executing agencies
to ensure their consistency with project schedules and operational criteria.
It would receive monthly monitoring reports from executing agencies and pre-
pare consolidated monitoring summaries. It would also administer a managemeni
fund of approximately US$500,000 equivalent, which would be used to test pro-
posed innovations in project design. Expenditures out of this fund would be
approved by the high-level project oversight committee (see para 41 above)
and, in the case of expenditures over US$50,000 equivalent, by the Associatioi
(Section 2.14, Project Agreement).
44.       The nutrition services component would be administered by the
Department of Social Welfare (GOTN), which would train and deploy Community
Nutrition Workers (CNWs) and their supervisors at the block, taluk, District,
and State level. 1/ CNWs would be contract workers (as opposed to permanent
staff) within the Department of Social Welfare, as the Government hopes over
time to encourage communities themselves to take increasing financial and
operational responsibility for delivery of village nutrition services. While
the State intends to continue to finance equipment and food costs, it is hope(
that village councils or other groups would ultimately provide premises for
CNCs and salaries (or volunteers) for CNW posts. Implementation of the healtl
service component would be the responsibility of the State Department of
Health and Family Welfare, which would operate Health Offices at the division
and District level to coordinate training and supervision of the expanded
health service staff, in addition to the Primary Health Centers and Health
Sub-Centers in each block. Because of complementarities in their roles,
effective coordination arrangements have been worked out for MPHWs, CNWs and
their supervisors. These include clearly defined job descriptions, joint
MPHW-CNW training sessions and monthly interdepartmental meetings at the bloc'
level which would involve both health and nutrition supervisors and managemen
staff. These linkages also would be reflected in curricula for training
health and nutrition workers, which would be prepared, for review by the
1/   A District is composed of two to three divisions, each of which in turn
contains approximately three taluks, composed of approximately three
blocks each.



- 18 -
Association, by August 31, 1980 (Section 2.11, Project Agreement). In ad-
dition, a Deputy Director of Health for Training would be appointed at the
State level (by August 31, 1980) to oversee the substantial health training
program to be operated under the project (Section 2.13, Project Agreement).
Construction of Health Sub-Centers and training facilities would be managed by
the State Public Works Department and the Department: of Highways and Rural
Works, in accordance with schedules to be agreed with the Department of
Health. The nutrition and health communications cormponent, which would serve
both the Health and SociaL Welfare Departments, would be executed by a special
Nutrition Communications lJnit, directed by the Joint: Coordinator for Nutrition
Communications in the Project Coordination Office. Once field operations
begin, a District Communications Officer would be posted in each project
District to coordinate field operations. Monitoring and evaluation would be
carried out by each executing agency and by the Project Coordination Office
and the State Department of Finance, as described in para 41 above. In
addition, an Evaluation Advisory Panel, to consist of State and Central
Government representatives and representatives of relevant research insti-
tutions and to be established by December 31, 1980, would meet as necessary
throughout the project period to review and advise on project evaluation
activities (Section 2.10, Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$66.4 million equiv-
alent, of which US$8.7 miLlion, or 13% of project cost, represents foreign
exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to civil works,
furniture, equipment, drugs and supplies, training and food supplement costs.
Price contingencies have been applied at a rate of 10% for 1981, 7% per year
for 1982-83 and 5% per year thereafter, and amount to 25% of total project
cost.
46.       The proposed credit of US$32 million would finance approximately
50% of project cost net of taxes and duties, which are estimated at US$1.9
million, and would cover all foreign exchange costs. The balance of the funds
for the project would come from State Government sources. In order to encour-
age prompt initiation of the training and service programs, and to facilitate
project evaluation, retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 would be pro-
vided for approved expend:itures made after September 1, 1979 on curriculum
development, baseline surveys of the target population, advance operation of
the service delivery program in one test block, and project management.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Civil works contracts (totalling US$9.0 million) 1/ would be small
and dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordaince with the State's
normal procedures, which are acceptable to the Association. The State Public
Works Department and the Department of Highways and Rural Works would be
1/ All figures in this paragraph are net of contingencies.



- 19 -
responsible for civil works procurement and construction supervision and
would delegate the authority to award construction contracts to their staff
at the block level, in order to expedite construction of project-financed
works. Approximately 111 motor vehicles, 212 motorcycles, and 3,200 bicycles
(totalling US$1.4 million) would be required under the project. They would
be purchased in small quantities over five years. In the inte-st of ensuring
adequate maintenance and spare parts supply, all motor vehicles and motorcycles
would be procured by local competitive bidding under existing government
procedures. Bicycles would be purchased mainly by individual field staff with
loan funds provided by the Government of Tamil Nadu. Orders for purchase of
equipment, drugs, supplies, and furniture (totalling US$10.6 million), which
would be small individually and procured at intervals throughout the project
period, 1/ would be bulked wherever possible and placed in accordance with
established local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. In order to streamline the State Government's procedures for
selecting, ordering, and distributing drugs and medicines, a study of these
procedures will be carried out by June 30, 1981, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, with the objective of identifying any adjust-
ments deemed necessary (Section 2.12, Project Agreement). Contracts for the
design and preparation of mass media (e.g., radio and film) campaigns, for
data processing, and for technical assistance (totalling US$2.4 million),
where suppliers are limited and quality and experience differentials of
particular importance, would also be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping.
However, all contracts for such services over US$100,000 equivalent would be
subject to IDA review prior to award. The remainder of project costs (US$43.0
million) consist of local training (US$2.8 million), incremental staff and
operating costs (US$14.2 million), costs of food supplements (US$6 million),
the Project Management Fund (US$0.5 million) and contingencies (US$19.5
million).
48.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 80% of the
costs of civil works, vehicles, equipment, furniture, drugs and supplies,
technical assistance, training, contract services, and expenditures from the
Project Management Fund. Disbursements against expenditures for civil works
payments not exceeding Rs 300,000, for payments for vehicles, equipment,
contract services, drugs and supplies not exceeding Rs 150,000, and for
training would be made on the basis of certificates of expenditure. These
certificates of expenditure would be audited semi-annually and the audit
reports submitted to IDA. Additional supporting documentation for these
expenditures would be retained by the State Government for inspection in
the course of project review missions. Disbursements against expenditures
for all other items would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
49.       The primary benefits of the proposed project would be to demonstrate
a cost-effective and replicable system of nutrition and health intervention
in Tamil Nadu and to improve the nutrition and health status of the population
1/   Periodic procurement is particularly critical in the case of drugs and
medications (totalling US$4.2 million), which have limited shelf life.



- 20 -
of project areas, with particular impact on children under three and pregnant
and nursing women. The nutrition surveillance system established under the
project would cover approximately 780,000 children under three years of age
during the life of the project.  Direct food supplements would be provided to
an estimated 711,000 children, at a significantly iLower food cost than would be
incurred were these beneficiaries to be fed accord:ing to the pattern estab-
lished under existing long-term feeding programs. This would be accomplished
by combining a relatively short-term feeding program (90-120 days), which
would restore most children to satisfactory weight--gain levels, with intensive
nutrition education designed to teach families how to sustain, within their
own budgetary constraints, adequate nutritional levels for young children.
Pre- and post-natal food supplements would also be provided, under this
program, to approximately 275,000 women at high risk of giving birth to
low-weight infants.  The health component would improve the availability and
quality of basic health services for approximately ten million people, includ-
ing an estimated 1.25 mi:Llion women and children inadequately served by the
existing health system. The expected combined effect of the health and
nutrition programs would be a 25% reduction in infant and pre-school mortality
rates in the project area, prevention or reversal of approximately 570,000
cases of moderate to severe malnutrition among children under three years of
age in the project area, and substantial overall reductions in morbidity,
particularly among young children during the most critical period of mental
and physical development.
50.       The project faces the fundamental risk that the determinants of
malnutrition may be so complex that even effective implementation of the
project as designed would not produce the anticipated results. However, the
project has been designed on the basis of extensive research in Tamil Nadu and
elsewhere, takes into account the most relevant experience available, and, if
properly implemented, is expected to have pronounced effect. With respect to
actual implementation, as opposed to design, the project faces five basic
risks: (i) the difficulty of maintaining adequate service coordination and
quality control and still adhering to the implementation schedules associated
with the expanded training and service programs supported by the project;
(ii) the risk that separate administrative controls for nutrition annd health
delivery may hamper proper coordination of village nutrition and health
services; (iii) the possibility that social pressure may make it difficult to
enter and discharge children from the supplementation program in accordance
with project criteria; (iv) the possibility that participation in the food
supplement program may be lower than expected, given the ostensibly modest
size of the daily supplement (which would be in snack rather than meal form to
ensure continued home-feeding) and the short duration of the supplement
period; and (v) the possibility that changes in intra-family food distribution
will occur later than anticipated, which would lead to a higher than expected
rate of relapse among children who have completed an initial course of nutri-
tion supplementation. An extensive system for performance monitoring has been
designed into the project to help guard against cumulative lags in project
implementation and oversee the quality of project-supported services. More-
over, project-supported training and monitoring and evaluation programs will
stress coordination between nutrition and health workers and the service
programs for which they are responsible. Final decisions on which children
will enter or exit from the supplementation program have been put in the hands



- 21 -
of the Community Nutrition Workers' supervisors rather than the workers
themselves, in order to ensure that pressures from co-villagers will not
replace nutritional criteria in determining which children receive food
supplements. The intensive nutrition surveillance program supported by the
project, combined with nutrition education efforts, should act to offset the
risk of low ra !s of participation in the supplementary feeding program. The
fifth risk, that of slower than expected changes in family food habits, is
somewhat more difficult to guard against, although it could have potentially
serious ramifications in terms of project cost, replicability, and long-run
impact. It is felt, however, that the estimated relapse rates (20%) assumed
in calculating project costs are reasonable, given the combined program of
mass media campaigns and small group nutrition education to be conducted under
the project and the potentially far-reaching impact of even marginal changes
in patterns of childhood feeding and intra-family food distribution.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Tamil Nadu, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 27, 1980



I                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIL I DICATORS DATA SHZET                     Page  1  of 5
REFU5CE GROCPS (ADJUSTTZD AYPAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                             - MOST RECENT ESZSIMAE) 
TOTAL          3287.6                                                 SAME       SAKE    11Zr HIGUER
ASCULTUR L    1818.3                                MOST lECEZT     GEOGRAIIIC   INCOME      LNCOMe
1960  l    1970 A ESTSIATE  b      REGION       GR1OUP  d   GROUP a
GNP PU  APlITA tOSS)                 60.0       90.0    180.0            191.1     209.6       467.5
EmGT CONS5KPTION P1E CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL ECIVALENT)    142.0       181.0    213.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
F0IRAXIO.  aD-TE&  (MILLIONS)   434.9        547.6    631. 7f
018   POPULAnION (PZRCUT OP TOTL) 17.9        19.7      20.7            13.2       16.2       24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULAIIOU IN YEAR 2000 (MILl;ONS)                   973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    1643.0
TZAR STATIONXAY POPULATION IS REAGRED               2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Xl.                     132.0      167.0    192.0             86.6      49.4        45.3
PtR SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0     308.0    347.0            330.2     252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 Ys.                         40.8       42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YUS.                       55.7        5^.6      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                 3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPILATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9        2.3       2.1             2.4       2.4         2.7
033*8                             2.5/&      3.3       3.1             4.1       4.6         4.3
CRUDE BRTh RAT  (PER T805*24)      43.0       40.0      35.0            44.4      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUSAND)    21.0       17.0      14.0            16.4      is5.9       11.7
GROSS RP,RODUCTION RATE             3.2        2.9       2.4             3.2       2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHD4)   ..       12.0      16.9             7.9      12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUSRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PI CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0      102.0    101.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       92.0      89.0            93.0      93.3        94.7
PEOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)        51.0        53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
OP w3CM ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0       16.0      12.6            10.4      13.6        17.4
CNILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0       22.0      18.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
USALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SBn  (YEARS)    43.0       48.0      !1.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFASNT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           *-       134.0       ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       17.0      33.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..       60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
R80U9A                             ..        6.0      20.0            20.1      15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO ECRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENS
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       18.0      20.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..       85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                             ..         1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PSYSICIAN        5800.01h    4890.0   3135.0          7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATZON PER NURSING PERSON    9630. h    5220.0   6320.0         12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.0/i   2020.0    1231.0          2738.4    1417.1       726.5
'RBAN                              ..         ..        ..             ..      197.3       272.7
RCRAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..    2445.9       1404.4
A0XISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BE           ..         ..        ..             ..       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEEOLD
-OTAL                            5.2          ..       5.2             ..        5.3        5.4
URBAN                            5.2          ..       4.8             ..        4.9        5.1
RCRAL                             5.2         ..       5.3             ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE N0UMER OF PERSONS PER ROO0
TOTAL                             2.6        2.3 
URBAN                              ..         ..
IURAL                             ..          ..
ALCM5S .0 _LECTRICY (PERCENT
OF 04EL.NGS
,OTAL                                                                  ..       22.5       23.i1
'RI3d:s                           ..          ..        ..             ..       i7.8 a       5.1
RCENL                             ..                .                  ..         ..9.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RZCN GT OGRAJ?HIC   INCOME            INCOtE
1960 /b     1970 1b ESTIMAVE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL  YT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     .rAL                 61.0        72.0      79.0             59.15      63.3        82.7
MALE                 80.0        87.0      94.0             74.9       79.1        87.3
FEMALE               40.0        55.0      63.0            43.,7       48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0        29.0      28.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0        39.0      38.0            27.8        22.1        33.0
FEMALE               10.0        17.0      18.0            10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)   8.0         6.0L       .              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        40.0      42.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0        17.0        ..               ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.0       36.0            25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0       1.2             2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0      24.0            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1       0.5               ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 1U.0        16.0      16.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PMR CAPnTA  4.0         6.3       3.8              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0   226870.0  261000.0/k
tEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6      32.2            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0        73.0      73.0             66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      11.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0        40.2      39.2            35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                37.1        52.3      51.3             52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9        27.1      26.2             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              |.0         1.1       1.1              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1      ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.97T      ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.771      ..              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.271       ..             ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      83.0             86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      73.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..       91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMANTED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLDTE
POVERTY 'NCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ,.          ..      47.0            44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      52.0             52.4       53.9        37.5
'lot available
Not aoplicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Yost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Sc outh Asia;  /d 'LOw  Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);   '       m975 mid-year ?opuiation is estimated at 640.4 million;   jj  1951-60;   "h  1962;
-  i953;    j  1967;  /k  1978 mid-vear labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /1  1964-05.
Most Recenc Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
DtaysITIONS Or SOCIAL  MIPCATORS                                                                     Page   3   of   5
Nown:  Although the data ar  draw  from  --  so -e -genrally Judged the nest authoritative and reliable, it oo..id also be noted tiht they  sy ooe b in tor--
ly_-lyc cnpasbahi  becaus  of tie i1ok of standadiord definitions and vencepte usd by differen.t -otoien do -1t1-tisg the attn. Thc dots are  -vothele-
u-ftol to d--ibe ordern of asgaitude, indicate trends, end oharstei- certain  -ajor deffercoobc                   t  -ecroo t.r-e.
Th   dutdtopnragofreo   oiao  are -ppjlntio--eghoed genmteio mea, etoldlg the entrea  e-dur  of the i                                                 -oatrad toe moo  populated
ovotry ic each group,  D-e toan   f data  groulpaeae  of all indivatne- fee Capital   rplo- Oil  nport-r  and ot  -d-ntor- of Aooeos to Wat-r sdoo.reto
Diuposal, Hoting, lr-00  Di~ttihut-o  and        _eryfor other outey gops are pepuati.no--gited g-ntriv men  without e-vio-a  ad' thn  -orec- alesen
the 000 poulate  ennstry.Siocsthe  neerse of  nunties stan te inicatos deoodsdni-o-ladilpyioldatasadf          t  octunifomi  ontoo-noo- e-eiconue
iANb ARhA (th-uad nq.h.                                                                        ccnt    ert   ipsl(ecn  o   oolto2-ttl   rn,synm
ToAl -ITtal. auf_ otcmrsn    a   raadiln  ctr.Nme   fpol   ttl   ra,ad sel) acre. by e--rta d_icynati an
Agrioultoral -  atetonve t e -tlm     of agricultural are  usd teeperily              Pero-tages of their rep-etive populations. Eorwin disp-alsy  nld
or Permnetly for  -pa, pa-turen, -rket and htehea gardens ne to                            tie c_cetu-  and dispuwal, wth or sitheut treatnet, ofhusc  ecerta
lie Calico                                                                                 andwseetrby eaterb-me  systee or the sac of Pit Proims and toIe
GNPO PEP CAPITA (10$) - GNP Por capot Os-t-t-s at  --ret nakht pri-na                        Poeaio    e   tescs  -  sp tins ouv-ded by  -unc  of pravti-og plysiotana
calculted by sanev teri-o method au World Bunk Atlas (1976-78 basis);                        qualifid fran a mdiclsbn   tuiest    ee
1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                                 Poculatint per N_ibsa  Pern -h. Poutt-i-droded hyo1                 rofpato1gml
ENacRGY CotiSUMgPrION PEP fAPTfA - Anna-1 wuptu   f co-oril eney                                ad femle grduate au,-es  pranti-Ia          - n       "ree..an   waitantoaree
-                    ~~~~(coa  and lignite, petrleun, aat-rl ga_ and hydro-, tu1-a  and gao_                     yPsiatinner.  Hospiot1 Bed -  noali urban, an  rurl - Population  (total, urb-,
the ta-ecoreity) en kilngm   of coal equivalet Per capeta  196o0                       and rural) divided by oh cirropetve oub-r of h-opatol tedo avilably1t
1970, and 1976 dta.                                                                          pblic and pri-tte geneal and sp-valevd hvetpatal and rhbti1atati- .. rtru-.
doaponals ar  estubl-sh-tm   per-ntelty otaffed hy at leat one phyne-a.
PYRlUICTION ADt tITAL STATISTICSE Ctahbach-etn protadiog peilcopaily  .usotdIal oac  r  too  -woude   tral
Total Popultioe, Mid-Year   iloe)- Au of July 1: 1)ko, 19710, nad                                  h        --oal,hoce, i-clude helt1 admdIvlesrsoaprsctysafa
0977 data,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~by a physivaa  (hut by Iamdoa   sistn,nre,mdieta.uii  fo
Urban Pp  ltiow  ) percet of total) - Patio of urban to total popuistin;                    i-ptieotasvm_datio           n  pr_d  d  a1inmtd rag   f aedion  favaltoe
differet defictioss o  urban  reas ay affet  -sp-obility of data              Addtio    erHa itate  -   Totltub-r of ad-ooi-n to or do agenIo
umongo..ootraes; 0960, 19111, and 1975 data.                                               h-nyitobs divided by the tutor  f hedo.
Populationi_     erPO  -frotpultio   projeetiva   are base  on                         tOiJSSING
i5ttlpopulation by aoadte-         n   hi=      mraoyad fertiibty                  raoSoon of Aivua. oid C pers-  per hounehol,d) - total, urha, and r'-ru  -
ratesp.frjetiot parante_  for -oettlity rat-  -opri- of three                            A hn-ahnld cons ists of a gruop ef imdlvdutab  chart~h   Living qnter  cd
levol  a-auing life  -opevt-oyu  birth icraen    ith vntyuthici  tam   -eal.  A boarder or lodger cy orspnthe etIu1-d  an oh,
pe   apt  ivo-m   Inoi  and femle life  -epectany atabiinin  an                    bhusehld for ~tt-toti-al psop-se-
y7-iposr.  The par-stera for f-rtility rate also h-e  hre  lb-eel                   Anrge ouber of pesn         Iprro- toa,uban, and rura  - Avergo  -ub-,
anocog uela-  at fertility a....rdi,,, toicm           Ie  end pan.tsf  pesf                     oper room  i  al  urban, and rural occpied vovotldwellin
fanily IIvim"in  performan E. c  vatry n  then naslgndowsfthe-                           r-spe-tue-y    Oslitgw  neldmv-ceuaet otroture  and u"Iop, v   or'
nieobinations of  ortality and fertility trenda for pr.e-tioc                      Access to blecresiy C perset of dueni-total, urbuw- o   ua
purpon_.                                                                                 ve-tionnl dwellings seth electricity in liriug quarters mnperectugo 
Stutoocary poulatioc  - in  ttatitoay  popIttoo  lbhere in no gen-th               total, urban, and r-rl dee11acgsre_pestaey.
ninoc the birth rate isequl to the dea th rate,I_d aln  the age
st_uturereaisovu tant. Thin in aeviete  oly  ftor fo-tility rates                   EDUCATION
emo  genertion ofsoeroyla-- et-ef maly.  The attnaypp-                                   Piayshs            oa, male and benalc  O- ao   ou,  a    n   eml                 m
latin  nine so  e-tn-ted on the basin of tho prje-ted  harantritica                        met of alt ages at the pejia-y 1ene  no p          _vetse- of re-pr-ti- peccay
ofthe Ipopulti-  in the yea  2ot0, an dtbr  -nt  of d_vboae of fetiiity                    -hbo1-uge populati-; normlly includes ohildr- aged  -1-i y-ar  nut
rate to rplave_et lv..ad;u-tod for differot le-gthn of primar  edovation; I or  -nutr-   oats.
Yer .tti    ry popliti.n in r-hobd - The yea   h-e atatiosa.ry puplatine               uiversa  eduction eollent asp e-ed iSO prevet  --or  on   up
thor has boo  reahed.                                                                      ar  hln   orb-  tho offivial u-hool age
-ouwon  ctY                                                                           leodary s_boal - tota, ea1e and female - Yaputed to alo;uvtno
Per og. km. - Mid-yea  pnpulatioa Per oqua-  kelo-t-  (io heonare) of                        edu_tin  requires at iat boar y-r  of approved primary ata -oo .a.
tottl arapr-idec ge-ralvai                                                                                            Ia, o  te_eertraining im-tr-t-o,. Ic  p,.i
Per no. los.gricuit-ral iand - Conputod en ahot  for- giciurlsd                              usully of 12 to 17 year  of uge; ssrrepowdcw- onunevuro -torly
only.                                                                                      -nolded.
9Py-4qta      ciruor          --ret) - Childeen  (P-lb ynaa,weogaeYVat io.al esrllset (p-r-et of  -e dary) - YVa-tiun-I i, o.t.o    n  .
C15-61.yean, and retn0e         5  er- d 197   oe)aprcngsof aid-yea                          tebia,  noto l,o  other pegrea  whivh oporte odepe-o-tlyors
populatino1; LI5  190   n  17   aa                                                           deparolon  f        _dcotiay imotituti-a.
Papulnoin  Srowth bate(pecnt   total - Anlul .1grow.th rates of tntai aid-                   Pupal-temhbe  ratio - primay, asd se-odary - Tote1 otudooto nY              iio
yea  P.pulti-c  fnr 1950-hP  lO-0an19-7.primary and se-dary berm   dietded by  -,-er  af t-nob-r  is thovorr-
PPoplto  Growt  Pate  te-rte ) - urta   - Anaul grnuth rae -nf -rh                             spoding levea..
Npoplti..s for 1950-h60  1960-70, and 1970- 75.                                            Adult Laterav   rae   -prct) - Laterate  adlto   el  to   - rean   n ,uit,)
Crude Birta Ftate (per thuaand) - A-noa  Ite bietto  per tOus-n  of to-                        ape_eteo  tota  adult populati-o agd i9 yoar  andovr
year population; i900, 0970 and 1977 data.
Crude Path Pate   er- thousand)_A- Ano  deatho Per thoo-ad of end-yea                    CONSUM0IIP N
pouaIo; 1960, 1970, and 1917 data.                                                   Pasucoge  Cars (per thousad pnoulatin) - PasnMgo  oar  vopr-n   un   o
ProsoPeprouctin  tat  - Averag  smber of dutrnanan hbean                                -etiwg lets than eight per...ts; e-lud-e anhuunv, h.-..e. wed eilita
her norma  reproo-te-  period if oh  cprate  prenecth-age-
opovifin f-rtaiity rate-;  -sn11y fivey-ea   -rag- e-ding ye 1960,                       Radio ilove  (per thousand popuitatisn1) - All typos of re-i--r tar-d~
0970, ad 1975.                                                                             broadnata   to ge_a1pbi  pr -hoad of ppoy tiatn; eonlden onlive...ea
Fasily Planing - A-vptors, Ar.u-l (th-unands  - tonal ounbor of                              revivesonoutri    antdIa  er   Ia    itrtn   of rd.  eneoa
aeptor=    n  hirtl-sotrol devi-n   ne   uPi Iof vatanwal fatly                            off-st; data for  -iec  year  r.y nt tovopurt 00
p "nIsg Pr'gr'-,                                                                         abolished lis-itig.
Pually Painwig - u-er  (perset of  arnicd uncoo  - P-r-tage of -arried                     TV  -i--eber  (per thuuaand poppittioc) - TVreoiv-r  foe b-onitut, I              ... Leea
Iom   f "Iold-hoairig age (15-u44  earo  who  s  bieth--otrol Odoi-                     potlin per thousan.d populatina; e-lde- unli-e.ned fTV eoni...ovut
to all marrid ...ee is tun  0g  grouP.                                                     wed is yea    h.mie   egint-ati- of TV -eta _ aoeffect.
FOOD dNIt NUJTRITION                                                                           of "daily geea   n-eetnesppr    eiodn                      Pcr in   pubicatioc
Itd- of Fno.Prd-otit  per Capita (1969-71-lw0) - Iaden of Per -pit.                          devted promaily to reseding general Ies.2f    It"_ on caiderd to be "duily"
anul  rdutono l ..         fond osanOti-` PrMutiom  e_ld-a aved and                        if it appear  at leas.tIfour ti,ac  a seen1
feed and anon 1scdarY yea  hai-.  Cst.d'tis cove  primar  godo                           CieaAnalAt an  per CaPita owe PerOndonte_aerfikt
)c    sgran -nt-ad nf sugar) which ar  edible ned cotnio toti-ets                u-d durig the Year, including  dwi-nana  to drivo.i  vi--n   and tatilo
(eg  frM  nod teaar  esided).  Aggregate productia of  -th country                    unito.
in .n.ed on national acerag Iprlaser tprior neghta.
Per _pitn supply of salorien  (peren  of  rqureconI    tep d fr.e                     LABOR PFORCt
ewrg  oqLivaeet of net fnod wuppl-c  w-alal  in onutry Per nap't                      Toalla~bor Pot ... (hosandw (         ~ ....ooi-tIly anti-e p-r-, i-oloning ored
Per day.  Akvailable  -pplie-  -opre-  d-meta  prdu-tic,  _apoto les                     foectaiand unemploydbhot.-u1idin  hnone..ve-, stdeoto,o~t-.Dfin~it,o
-nportn, Iad  ihage   1to stok_. rt nuPpplIsavoviod   annifed -eds,                      ancron         _utrecs ar  nt-oparble
qnniincd Io nd p motg,ad losne   Or. ditibutia. Require-                      fpppipJporYIt)   - 1Femlelbor forc  us perv-tuge at ttal labor fora-
oats wer  estimated hy PAl haaed nophyninigi-ti neds for nonal                         Agl9trfr             (- lbor, forv_  in fa-rmig, f-etry, bunting and
activlity and health onocideri.g  --oroneta1 te-pert-r, body weights,                    fiuhitg  -n p-r-etse f total labor force
ag 'cdae   otrihutiona of population, and a11iahg 10 p-r-et for                    inuty(eva)-lbor 'forcein ainig,     etu  it   auatra    0
ustent hou..ehoild levo.                                                               eleotr itiy,sterad gn  an -ervtge of total Iblabrfre
Per -apntu  upyo   rt    (r-n  per day) - Protelo vont-t if Per                          Partivapatiun Fate ) nerset) - tnt1, male, ad 'e-alo  - iurtevo'putan   o
caia -e uply  of fd per day. ilet su,pply of fcnd is belised asat inity rates are s-pund an tntl, male, nod C -ale labor Corns at Pe-
ahn-. Pes;ui_tent  for all vuteirs estabithed by USDA pennide for a                      cegtnf total, male and femaic pspuiatiac  af all  g-n repeotively;
000mm alonnc  of 60 grant of total Protein per day and 20 grEl         o            191 970, and 1975 dats.  Thee   r    li  parin ptIo   rte  reflvob
aimal and polar protein,of   oh 10 grnm  ah-ui  be animal penei.                       uge-eutrotar  of the populatio, and look ban  teand.  A few  _,sti-t
Thea  atand-de tre lose   tatoaof 75 gran  of tnta1 pnamie and                           ar  from natioa e. ur. ee
ETgr_   of animal" prteo  aa  naerge for the unrId, proposed by PAP                  Pennants tepsadensy watin -  Patio of  pnpltaa  under ii wed lb and  -r to
in the flied World PFod Purvy,                                                           th  labor fre  in age group of 15 -61 yeaea.
Per capita pr-teim supply from soinal and pulse - Prstein supply nf fned
deeme1d Peon anima1  and pulses he grams p-o day.                                   OINCOMFt PSTRIBLTTION              (.hL         h~    id         .idb    ih
Ch'il   (aen1-)   e talo  wane (Per thousnd   - Anui  lea-ths Poe thouand                  Pestae  fPri-ate  Insa   ht  ncs                     td      eeceb   ihs
it age groop iIyas  ts  hlde   iv this age grop; fsr  -nt de-l-                            5 peen,rehe    P.poeet, poorest pc pe-cet, and poorest 40 per-at
opiogosuorteecs data derived from  life tables                                             of h-hseblda.
IisAITI                                                                                    POVERTY TARGET GOUPSO
lipeloectany at  irth (omara) -Averag  toble  of year  of life                        Ostimatcd Absolute Povrty Iauelvl(P   e 2caitsL) - urban aod era -. 
remahoing n  bit;  90  170,an 97.dat.                                                      Ab-nlute pn-rtylaeeecli Ithtanaleebeoaltannil
infant 4ortality Rtot  (Per thousad) - Annual deaths of infanta  ed-r on                     autitisaa.lly adequate diet plow  ense-tia1 ova-food require--to  as nto
year of age Per thousad Ii-e births.                                                       affordable.
Aoes  to Oafs Water (oce-t nf pniticn) -itntal, uranud rurl-                               Ostimated Raatle-  therety sc         Level (009 per capita) -  rban and rura
Peeler ofpeoPle (otal, nrb, and ralatIeeabea ssts                                          Rura  reati-epoet  incom leve  is we--third of averag  per  apita
safe eater supply )iteodea treated  -uf-  eaters or antr-ated hut                          per- a  iwoum  of the voatry. Urban iro1 is derived f-a  the rura  benc
-avotaninated water sc   n a  frw. protected   -hnr lee, spriega,                          eith adjuetont fnr higher  -t If lrinig in urbasaen
we -aitary eIls  a  pr-etages of their r-spetiem  P.pulati-oms.                        Estimated Populatien  Be1se AisoePeeyioa  em                     "ret) -        Pub    n
anuban area   poblie fsntsdn or standpnsa lccahed eat asr- than                          rura  - Feenmt If popultisa  (uban and rural)1b  ar  'absolut  poo"
000 meters from  a house as  be  ...eidered as heing  ith ia reaonble
ascoas of that hous,  i  rural uren  rea..able enemas seud imply
thnt the hnoe-ofe orteer-          fthe hi...ehoid do ant bar  tn spea  a                                                          tnv....   an d Sov a1 lata niv--o
dieprup-rioaa.te part of the day in fmtshir.g the fatly'. _stera..eds                                                         to....sic Analysis end Prjoio         oparo-et
Au,gust 1979



ANNEX I
SCImC DVZVUR M                                            Page 4 of 5
GNP Fn CAPTITA IN 1977: C8 150
b/                                                                                                 c
GROSS lNKTONL  YRODUCr IN 1977/78                                                          mMUL    eFn t7.. content prices)
us$ Bla.                                                   1960/61-194/65      1985186-199/70    1970/71-1976/77
GNP at Market Prices            101.47     IO0.0                                                 3.9                 3.8                3.2
Gross Domestic Investment       21.65       21.3
Gross National Saving           22.77       22.4
Currant Account Balance  d/      1.04        1.0
Resource Balance   d/          - 0.31      - 0.3
RR=,US  AIBOR YICF AND PRm0TTI IN 197L
Value Added (at factor cost)        LAbor Porce             V.A. Per lorker
us$ Bln.   _    L.          7               I.         IU.  of ISatigAnl Averase
4riculture                       24.5           46.6              130.0    72.1             1"               64
industry                         11.8           22.3               20.2    11.2             582             199
Services                         16.3           Sl.1               30.2    16.7             5U              1U
Total/average                    52.6          100.0              180.4   100.0             292             1
GOVDRNSr   FINANCZ                                           a/
Genral Govsraent                                           Central gC,eot
Re. Bln            7.of                                    as 51                of
1977/7S8                2L47s-1s"M                         1977            7         197_/75-1977/78
Current Receipts                164.42         1iI.9         18.2                            95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Expenditures            157.29         18.1          16.5                            95.27         10.9            9-9
Current Surplus/Deficit           7.1.3         0.8           1.6                             0.35         n.c.           0.6
Capital Expenditures  f/         62.58          7.2           7.0                            43.31          5.0            5.0
Ixtermal Assistance (net)  g/     9.82           L.1          1.6                             9.82          1.1            1.6
NONEY. CRIIT AND PUICS             1970/71   1g73/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78      etmber 1977        t_ebr 1978
(Rs Billion outstandin  at and of period)
money and Quasi "may                121.4      198.4      220.3      254.7      308.9      3 5.1          334.8            395.8
3ank  Credit to Goverment (net)      52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
Bank Credit to Comrcial 6ector       64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                            Jssrlv  1978      Januarv 1979
honey and Qusi Money as . of GDP    30.1        33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8       14.5              184.6
Anmil percentage chsnges in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
lank Credit to Goverment (aet)       10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1        9.0        17.7        13.4              16.9
Bank Credit to Coinrcial Sector      19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6             14.4
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at mrkat prices, calculated by the conversion tecuiqua used in the World  tles.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prwailiAg daring Sh period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GD? at factor cost series, including one observation before first yer and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World lank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
*/ Transfers batween Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
j/  Ixternal grents and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central ludget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
h|          h/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978179                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                        US$ Mln.         %
Exports of Goods                   4,672      5,753        6,276        6,800               Engineering Gods                610         11
Imports of Goods                  -6,449    -5,928        -7,237       -8,400               Tea                             417          7
Trade Balance                     -1,777      - 175        - 961       -1,600               Gems                            377          7
NFS (net)                            310        360          650          700               Clothing                        331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                  -1,467        185        - 311       -  900                        Products               278          5
i/                                                               Jute Manufactures               267          5
Interest Payments (net)            - 216      - 180         - 50           -                Iron Ore                        265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)           -          -            -           -                 Cotton Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfers  J/                    470        730        1,400       1,300                Sugar                           244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account        -1,213        735        1.039          400
Total                        5.567         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953         1,628       1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1978 -
Amortization                    - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                      US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                242      - 337        - 330        - 158               Outstanding aLd Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                     - 45      - 216          384          205               Undisbursed                                4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves ()            - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                     Undisborsed                          19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)          2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                  h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/        1,365      3,276        5,668       7,350                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78            15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Imports                            1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                      US$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417      1,581         1,817       1,980                                                   IBRD          IDA
Exports                               43         37           33        n.a                 Outstandi..6 ..,d Disbursed         613         3,864
of which: Petroleum                 22         21           18        n.a.               Undisbursed                          615         1,992
Outstanding, including                 m/
Undisbursed              1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971        :  US$1.00 = Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972 :   US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$o.137376
After end-June 1972                   :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978           :  US$1.00 = Rs 8.188
US$1.00 = Rs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IIF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMP credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.0      .86
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.42
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    7.73
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    8.11
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .61
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAI) 52.0         --      22.61
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   36.68
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    3.22
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   16.91
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    7.36
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   11.56
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --      11.30
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --       5.28
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.80
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   13.53
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    8.18
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   15.25
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.97
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   63.61
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   86.73



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.43
610-IN      1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    14.60
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    113.42
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     24.90
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     24.22
1313-IN      1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     23.47
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --     10.47
680-IN      1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.25
682-IN      1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   17.24
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  112.89
687-IN      1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN      1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    1.87
1394-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN      1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.24
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.43
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.23
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      75.97
736-IN      1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   52.62
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.93
740-IN      1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   51.88
1475-IN      1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     39.73
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   96.11
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   62.79
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      25.00
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      94.17
788-IN      1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           126.0  107.65
793-IN      1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  179.25
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.99
808-IN      1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   80.12
815-IN      1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.50
816-IN      1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.97
1592-IN      1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     65.04
824-IN      1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  146.02
842-IN      1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  194.78
843-IN      1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   90.61
844-IN      1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.90
848-IN      1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   36.03
855-IN      1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   27.00
862-IN      1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   25.00
871-IN      1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   27.07
1648-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation           --        129.0  125.26
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   48.00
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN*    1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   23.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN*    1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer        250.0       --       250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                  20.0       20.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,263.2
of which has been repaid               986.3      57.2
Total now outstanding                  1,542.5  7,206.0
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA         1,524.9  7,206.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           599.6  2,586.62
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Closer Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.4        5.2
1980         Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.             7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31.6        9.1       40.7
Undisbursed                          11.7        1.7       13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$538.3 million in FY79 or 39% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,186 mil-
lion as of January 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date:  March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs comXpared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr, No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project toiwards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 11985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers.  The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor sLippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: February 29, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial produc-
tion is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a
result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in comple-
tion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project prep-
aration and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-
projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove themn.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Developmoent Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: Junes 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date:  June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Developmernt Project; US$34.0 million
credit oif April 28, 1975; Effective! Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
D5ate: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operaLion, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project irDlementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874        May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily.  Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
Two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
Government of Tamil Nadu.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project.
April 1977; March 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
July 30, 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
February 29, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
August 15, 1980.
Section II: Special Conditions
(a) GOTN to carry out reviews of project execution, under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, at the end of
the first year of service delivery in a test block,
at the end of the third year, after services have been
introduced in about 70 blocks, and at the end of the
final year of the project implementation period. Mid-
term reviews to take into account experience with and
on-going evaluation of mobile medical team system and
other approaches to providing village-based health
services and to be used as a basis for required adjust-
ments to project design or implementation schedule
(para 41(d));



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) GOTN to take all measures necessary to protect efficiency,
level and quality of health and nutrition services and to
avoid duplication of such services in the event that
changes are introduced in the rural health system in
project areas (para 36).
(c)  GOTN to adopt beneficiary selection criteria satisfactory
to IDA for food supplement program (para 41(a)).
(d) GOTN to prepare, for IDA review, curricula for project-
supported training programs by August 31, 1980 (para 44).
(e) GOTN to appoint a Deputy Director of Health for Training
not later than August 31, 1980 (para 44).
(f) GOTN to establish, by December 31, 1980, an Evaluation
Advisory Panel to meet as necessary throughout the
project period to advise on project evaluation (para 44).
(g) GOTN to carry out, not later than June 30, 1981, a study
of ways of improving selection, procurement and delivery
of drugs and medicines for PHCs and HSCs (para 47).



INDIA
TAMIL NADU  NUTRITION  PROJECT                                                       ANONHRA  PRADESH2
PROJECT DISTRICTS
2 -     I PSJ~IST I. I -  AITF I 
olRL-1                                      55- 
3  5,,,  .~~~~~~ o~~,,o.    so,,,,,,  1                                                 CI-I~~~~~~~~~~ENGALPATTLJ
DH ARMAPURI/
KA RIV A TA KA                 7                                                          Pncer
C' _'POND/CHERRY
C ''  -    .              -   hoe,,                ~~~~~~~~~SOU TH  ACOT
-V          >    <-.  C                                                      '5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1R     H  -  PAL
NI LCd RI 2                         SAEM~~(I z
0                     .  .               ___ ' 0/'FI              BAR-PALL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARKA
K'ERALZA          /                               ~.                                THAN.AVUR
- .                            ~~~~~~~~~P U DUK A 
MADUPI/ 
-V                         >       ~~         ~~~~~~~~TIRU  V~ E0.
d4:
o     KANYAK~~~~~B  AAHAUAM'
C--



_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ __   _ ____ IBRD   14748
INDIA
TAMIL NADU  NUTRITION  PROJECT                                                   ANI2DHA  PRADIFSH
PROJECT DISTRICTS                                              "
~~~~~ I> ~ ~ ~~~~~         T
5                 5~~~~~~~~I15. 5 -550-05u
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S . ....... _                                                                                            o d d P P
I M B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rsdo'r
Z.,~,KAJIKAL
20..                    J~~~~~~~~~L       M    j., 
5"~~~
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pdkto
7                                                                                                                  S.~
/5~~~~~~~~HA     
I                                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRU  ,. UI
'-P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



