Document of                  rh
The World Bank   
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2762-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A NUTRITION PROJECT IN TAiMIL NADU
March 27, 1980
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =   Rupees (Rs) 8.40 /1
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR: April 1 - March 31
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU FISCAL YEAR: April 1 - March 31
MEASURE (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)        =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =   0.62 miles (mi)
/1   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a
fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in this report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40 which repre-
sents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ANM.         - Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
BDO          -  Block Development Officer
CARE         -  Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CHW          -  Community Health Worker
CNC          -  Community Nutrition Center
CNW          -  Community Nutrition Worker
DANIDA       -  Danish Agency for International Development
DCO          -  District Communication Officer
DDO          -  Divisional Development Officer
DNO          -  District Nutrition Officer
GOI          -  Government of India
GOTN         -  Government of Tamil Nadu
HRWD         -  Department of Highways and Rural Works
HSC          -  Health Sub-Center
IDA          -  International Development Association
JCC          -  Joint Coordinator for Communications
LHV          -  Lady Health Visitor
MCH          - Maternal and Child Health
MO           - Medical Officer
MPHW         - Multipurpose Health Worker
NNMB         -  National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
NSS          -  National Sample Survey
PHC          -  Primary Health Center
PEN          -  Public Health Nurse
FWD          -  Public Works Department
SAHSC        -  Sri Avinashilingam Home Science College
TNAIC        -  Tamil Nadu Agro-Industries Corporation
TNNS         -  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study
TNO          -  Taluk Nutrition Officer
TWAD         -  Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board
UNICEF       -  United Nations Children's Fund
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



!



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A NUTRITION PROJECT IN TAMIL NADU
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   Introduction ...............................................  .......  I
II.   Nutrition in Tamil Nadu .................................      3
A.   Current Five-Year Plan .................  .......... .    3
B.   Nutrition Conditions and Programs ................ ..    4
III.   The Project .    ........................................... ..  8
A.   Goals, Strategy, Design and Objectives .............      8
B.  Location ...                   .     ..........           10
C.  Phasing .............................................. .......    10
D.  Description         ........................................   11
1.  Summary and Main Features       ....................    11
2.  Detailed Project Features  .       ............ ........   13
IV.   Project Costs, Financing, Procurement, Disbursement
and  Audit   .......................  ......................  36
A.   Costs and Financing ...................... ..........   36
B.  Procurement .     .......................................    38
C.  Disbursements .............. . .. . . ................ .... .0   39
D.  Accounts and Audits ....... o  ......o .. .......   40
V.   Project Organization and Management .... o.........  ....o   40
Ao  Overall Coordination ..o ............ o......... .oo..o   40
B.   Programming and Budgeting ...   .... ..........          41
C.   Project Execution .......ooo ........   41
VI.   Justification and Risks ..o....o.. ..o. ....... .... .oo   42
A.   Justification . ...       .............  .  .42
B.   Risks  ......o                     ........-........    44
VII.   Recommendations ... .         .. ................. ...... ..o. ... .. .. .   45
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India
in July/August 1979. The mission consisted of: Mr. J. Greene, CPS (Chief),
Mr. R. C. Carriere (CPS), Dr. K. V. Ranganathan (EDI), Mr. 0. Knudsen (CPS),
Mr. E. Thomson (Nutrition Administration Consultant), Mr. S. da Cunha and
Ms. H. Perrett (Communications Consultants), and Mr. C. Jhabvala
(Consultant Architect). A post-appraisal mission was made in January 1980
by Mr. J. Greene and Dr. K. V. Ranganathan.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Estimated Base Costs by Component and Expenditure Category
2.   Estimated Yearly Base Project Expenditures by Category
3.   Proposed Allocation of Credit
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.   Summary of Key Implementation Actions by Component
6.   Simplified Organizational Charts of Project Units
a. Nutrition Delivery Services Component
b. Rural Health Services Component
c. Project Coordination and Communications Arrangements
d. Project Evaluation Arrangements
7.   Yearly Project Base Cost Estimates by Component
a. Nutrition Delivery Services
b. Rural Health Services
c. Communications
d. Monitoring and Evaluation
e. Project Coordination
8.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1.   Project Cost Estimates by Expenditure Category
2.   Project Cost Estimates by Component
MAP IBRD - State of Tamil Nadu: Project Districts



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A NUTRITION PROJECT IN TAMIL NADU
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      India remains a leader among developing countries in recognizing
malnutrition as a major concern. Initial Government interest from inde-
pendence in 1947 intensified as a result of both the 1966-67 Bihar famine and
the growing recognition of the potential links between malnutrition and mental
development. Beginning with the Fourth Plan (1968-73), the Government of
India (GOI) began to expand feeding programs as an immediate way to help
bridge the nutrition gap, principally of children and pregnant and nursing
women, while longer-term food production and income-generating measures took
hold.
1.02      Government concern for the nutrition and health of pre-school
children was further reflected in promulgation of a "National Policy for
Children" in August 1974, followed later that year by establishment of a
Children's Board with the Prime Minister as President. The Government also
incorporated supplementary feeding of pre-school children in the Minimum Needs
Program which began under the Fifth Plan (1973-78) and includes national
targets for elementary and adult education; rural health, water supply, roads
and electrification; rural housing for the landless, and improvement of urban
slums.
1.03      India's commitment to nutrition has manifested itself on other
fronts as well. The National Institute of Nutrition, the Indian Council of
Medical Research and the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences are inter-
nationally recognized for their work on nutrition problems. Moreover, the
Government has undertaken a number of initiatives in such important nutrition
areas as food processing and fortification. These efforts have included
development of balahar, 1/ a cereal-legume mixture developed for public
feeding programs.
1.04      Public feeding programs steadily have expanded over the past 10
years and now reach an estimated 20 million beneficiaries.  Around 13 million
primary school children receive balahar in a mid-day meals program for which
the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere (CARE) donates soy-fortified
bulgur wheat. Other nutrition programs with feeding components include:
(a) the Applied Nutrition Program, aided by the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF), which seeks to increase food production while providing nutri-
tion and health education directed at nutritionally vulnerable groups; (b)
the Special Nutrition Program, assisted by CARE, which provides supple-
mentary feeding to mothers and pre-school children 2/ in urban slums, socially
disadvantaged rural families and regions suffering repeated droughts and
floods; (c) the Food-for-Work Program, with World Food Program support, which
1/   A Hindi word meaning "child's food."
2/   Defined as children under six years of age.



reaches around 1.5 million beneficiaries in 16 states and territories, and
(d) the Integrated Child Development Services program which on a pilot basis,
combines health, nutrition and education measures for pre- and school children
and their mothers using mainly local commodities.
1.05      The Central and State Governments share the costs of most feeding
programs. The GOI pays for the purchased inputs in balahar and its processing
costs. The states generally meet freight, port handling, storage and local
transport charges for donated commodities. They also provide local foods to
supplement balahar and the costs of cooking the ration and serving it to
beneficiaries. Over the last few years, the combined central and state
governments' annual contribution to such feeding programs has risen substan-
tially; for the CARE program alone, that support has almost tripled, rising
from an estimated US$30 million in 1976 to more than US$81 million in 1979.
The economic value of the donated soy-fortified wheat for India's school
lunch and pre-school feeding programs is currently estimated at around US$76
million yearly. Inclusive of distribution, storage and administrative costs,
the total economic cost of these feeding programs is estimated at more than
US$160 million annually.
1.06      Recognizing that such feeding programs alone cannot provide an
adequate solution to nutrition problems, the GOI's current nutrition strategy
continues to emphasize food production, income generation, and nutrition
education accompanied by processing and fortification programs and more
careful targeting of supplementary feeding activities.
1.07      While national concern about nutrition is reflected to some degree
in programs and priorities of all the Indian states, some have been more
aggressive than others in trying to identify the main causes of malnutrition
and deal with them effectively. Among those, the southern state of Tamil
Nadu is particularly prominent.
1.08      Tamil Nadu's population was estimated at 46.8 million in 1979, around
7.4% of the estimated total Indian population. Almost one-third of its popula-
tion lives in towns and cities, making Tamil Nadu the country's most urbanized
state. It is also the third most densely populated state after Kerala and
West Bengal.
1.09      A relatively small agricultural sector accounts for about 40% of
state income; manufacturing accounts for about 20% of state income. Almost
six million hectares, just under half the state's total land area, is culti-
vated; over 20% of the cropped area is sown more than once yearly. Rice
predominates. It accounts for 35% of the cropped area, (around 80% of which
is planted in high-yielding varieties) and for over half the state's foodgrain
production. Rice yields per hectare in Tamil Nadu are among the highest in
India and hover at around twice the national average. Groundnuts account for
13% of the total cropped area, followed by sorghum and millet at 11% each.
Tamil Nadu's average compound growth rate of 2.7% yearly in cereals production
over the period 1964/65-1977/78 ranks ninth among Indian states. Its average
annual increase of 3.9% in pulse production, despite wide yearly fluctuations,



- 3 -
ranks second only to Rajasthan over the same period. Overall food output
has more than kept pace with the estimated 1.6% rate of natural increase in
population.
1.10      Tamil Nadu has the most fully developed irrigation potential of all
the Indian statiq.  Surface and ground water irrigation covers around 75% of
the state's potential of an estimated 3.7 million hectares. That percentage
of coverage is almost twice the national average. In fertilizer consumption,
the state ranks second only to Punjab with consumption per hectare of cropped
area at 37.1 kilos. Despite these high rankings in yields, fertilizer
application and irrigation promotion, Tamil Nadu ranks fourteenth among 22
Indian states in average foodgrains production per capita 1976-77 to 1978-79,
because of the relatively small area under foodcrops production and the high
degree of urbanization of the state.
1.11      Agriculture continues to employ around 60% of the labor force,
although an estimated half of the agricultural labor force is landless.
Farm holdings are generally small due to high population density in rural
areas. Among Indian states, Tamil Nadu ranked ninth in per capita income,
from 1973-74 to 1975-76, at an equivalent of US$118, according to the 1978
report of the Finance Commission.
II. NUTRITION IN TAMIL NADU
A. Current Five-Year Plan
2.01      The State's main objectives for its current five-year plan ending
in 1983 are to: (a) reduce economic and social inequalities of opportunity
and income while substantially raising incomes and employment; (b) eliminate
the worst forms of poverty and appreciably reduce the numbers of those below
the poverty line; 1/ and (c) improve the quality of life for weaker sections
of the population, principally through the Minimum Needs Program, which
includes basic services and rural housing for the landless. In conformity
with those objectives, the current plan stresses agriculture, rural develop-
ment, irrigation and power. While decreasing as a share of previous plan
expenditures, outlays for social services have almost doubled in absolute
terms since the last plan.
2.02      Through its plan program, Tamil Nadu projects an overall annual 3.8%
growth rate in its six major sectors during the plan period, accompanied by
the creation of around 2.7 million jobs, which would reduce unemployment to
around 1.1 million persons, or around six percent of the labor force. Village
and small industries, fisheries and animal husbandry programs along with
1/   In 1977 an estimated 52% of the rural population lived below the absolute
poverty income level of US$73 per capita per annum. However, for the
period 1957-58 through 1973-74 the average percentage of the rural
population in absolute poverty was estimated at 58% relative to the
all-India average of 50% for the same period.



-4-
labor-intensive public works construction programs are to help improve condi-
tions of the rural populace below the poverty line. However, the main bene-
fits for this population would accrue through the Minimum Needs Program which
continues as a mainstay of the state's development effort, marked by an
impressive record of social investments. Because of the gravity of the
problem, nutrition has played a continuing role in the state's development
program during both past and present plans.
B. Nutrition Conditions and Programs
2.03      Various estimates over time show that Tamil Nadu continues to rank
well below the national average in per capita daily food intake. The National
Sample Survey (NSS) reported in 1978 that, according to 1973-74 data, Tamil
Nadu ranked fifteenth among 16 major states with average per capita daily
energy intake of around 2,036 calories against a national average of 2,263
and estimated need of 2,400. Estimated per capita daily calorie intake in
rural Tamil Nadu was around 2,012 calories against a national average of
2,328. The urban situation was somewhat better, with average per capita
daily intake at 2,092 calories against a national average of 2,003. Estimates
of per capita protein availability in Tamil Nadu range between 36 and 42 grams
daily, against the recommended daily allowance of 46 grams of protein
per capita. Anthropometric and food consumption surveys together with data
on morbidity and mortality provide overwhelming confirmation that protein-energy
malnutrition is widespread and often severe in Tamil Nadu, particularly
among pre-school children and pregnant and nursing women. Because of differ-
ences in standards and techniques, the results of many of these studies
are not strictly comparable. Nevertheless, they indicate that up to an
estimated 35% of rural households in Tamil Nadu and 40% of individuals consume
less than 80% of their calorie needs according to the most conservative
calculations of requirements.
2.04      The most complete picture of nutrition in Tamil Nadu resulted from
the Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study (TNNS), carried out in 1970-73 under the joint
auspices of the State and Central Governments and the United States Agency
for International Development. The study concentrated on both operational
analysis and applied research. It provides a unique data base derived from
the most systematic effort yet undertaken in any developing country to analyze
the nutrition aspects of food production, distribution and consumption. A
major TNNS objective was to identify intervention points to achieve signifi-
cant changes in survival of children, who are recognized as the nutritionally
most vulnerable group. The study incorporated field collection and analysis
of primary and secondary data as well as special studies. The multi-
disciplinary TNNS team included economists, biologists, nutritionists, food
technologists, behavioral scientists, engineers and systems specialists. It
served as the research arm of an interdepartmental group on nutrition which
the State Government set up.
2.05      Principal TNNS conclusions were:  (a) around half the families in
Tamil Nadu consume less than 80% of their calorie needs, calculated according
to TNNS standards, which are marginally higher than those used by the Indian



-5-
Council for Medical Research; (b) while some protein shortages occur, the
most pressing need is for more calories; (c) generally increased food pro-
duction is essential, but certain groups require special attention because
of the gap between prevailing distribution patterns and their nutritional
needs; (d) the highest priority target group for such specific intervention
is the weaning child under three years of age, based on indications that
malnourishment compounded by poor health is a major cause of pre-school
mortality in Tamil Nadu and TNNS assertions that death rates for such children
under 18 months of age were more than ten times the composite rate for their
European and North American peers; (e) pregnant and nursing women constitute
the next highest priority group because of their influence on health and
growth of the infant; (f) food habits are major nutrition status determinants
for Tamil Nadu pre-school children, whose nutrition falters dramatically
during weaning across all family levels of calorie intake and income; and
(g) these habits are amenable to change, as demonstrated by TNNS testing of
a weaning supplement program in Coimbatore District.
2.06      These conclusions closely correlate with findings elsewhere in
India that: (a) infectious diseases, diarrhea and unsatisfactory food habits
are major contributors to malnourishment, particularly among young children,
and (b) changes in many undesirable food habits are within the financial reach
of most families, including timely supplementation of breast milk with satis-
factory home-made weaning foods, better feeding during pregnancy and nutri-
tionally more effective food preparation and purchasing habits.
2.07      TNNS calculated that 45% of all Tamil Nadu children died before
the age of five years and that over 50% of pre-school children in the state
were malnourished. Although based on careful sampling, TNNS mortality esti-
mates are almost double those from official State health sources and probably
overestimate present conditions by a considerable margin. However, a small
sample survey conducted in 1978 by the National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
(NNMB) found that 85% of surveyed children aged 1-5 years had weight for age
lower than 90% of prevailing standard. A similar NNMB study five years earlier
found 89% of children surveyed to be malnourished by weight for age while 68%
also were low weight for height. These NNMB studies tend to confirm TNNS
conclusions in regard to numbers of malnourished children.
2.08      TNNS also tried to estimate the extent of nutrition-related mor-
bidity and the financial cost of treating it at Government installations.
The study found the cost of treatment of such morbidity to be around US$5.5
million yearly or 31% of annual State expenditures at that time for medical
services alone. Pre-school children with nutrition-related disorders
accounted for almost 23% of all patients then treated in Government installa-
tions although they made up only 16% of the state population. Diarrhea,
malnutrition and specific nutrient deficiencies, principally of vitamin A,
were the leading forms of such pre-school morbidity. Among adults, a main
nutrition problem was anemia from shortages of iron and folate which studies
have estimated to affect more than half of Tamil Nadu's pregnant and nursing
women.



- 6 -
2.09      A subsequent study by the Institute of Child Health, Madras, found
that nutrition was a leading or associated cause of 41.8% of the deaths of
pre-school children surveyed. The other leading causes were gastroenter-
itis, principally manifested through diarrhea; respiratory infections, and
other aiLuents which interact with malnourishment. Data from a 46-village
health program run through Erskine Hospital, Madurai, indicated prevalence
of vitamin A deficiency among pre-school children, which can lead to impaired
vision or blindness, to be around 27%.
2.10      Both TNNS and later consumption data based on NSS estimates
strongly point to inequalities of income distribution, rather than overall
food shortages, as a main cause of malnutrition in Tamil Nadu. NSS figures
also indicate that, while the state as a whole is marginally self-sufficient
in calorie availabilities, families in the lowest two income deciles consume
around 60% and 72%, respectively, of their estimated daily calorie needs.
2.11      Since the completion of TNNS, the State Government has continued
its long-term strategy of further increasing food production while trying
to raise the incomes of those living in absolute poverty. It considers
investments in rural development essential to bring about sustained
reductions in malnutrition and morbidity levels. However, since nutrition
impact from such programs will occur slowly, the State Government has
complemented them with a number of direct nutrition activities aimed
specifically at the most vulnerable groups.
2.12      Around 25 nutrition programs now operate in Tamil Nadu, largely
under Government auspices. Although sponsored by a number of different
agencies including the Departments of Social Welfare, Health and Family
Welfare, Education, Labor and Rural Development, from 1971 these programs
have been coordinated through the Department of Social Welfare which has
formal responsibility for nutrition activities in the state. This process
has taken place chiefly through a committee which is chaired by the Secretary
of the Department of Social Welfare and includes as members Secretaries of the
other departments concerned. A number of these programs concentrate on
publicly-sponsored feeding, although their reach and scope vary considerably.
The oldest of these is the school lunch program begun in 1956 which now
provides mid-day meals, consisting mainly of balahar, 200 days a year for
around two million youngsters in more than 32,000 schools. A program of
feeding at a total of around 4,000 child-care centers, or balwaddies, reaches
around 300,000 pre-school children, mainly aged 3-6 years.
2.13      Other nutrition programs have included operation of a nutrition
rehabilitation center in Madurai District, assisted by the Royal Commonwealth
Society for the Blind, and three programs initiated by the Central Government:
(a) the Applied Nutrition Program, which has covered 61 of
Tamil Nadu's 373 blocks;
(b) the Special Nutrition Program, which reaches around 130,000
low-income beneficiaries in 33 municipalities and Madras, and



- 7 -
(c) the Integrated Child Development Service program, which
now operates experimentally in three Tamil Nadu blocks
through around 300 child-care centers reaching an estimated
24,000 pre-school children; coverage through an additional
700 child-care centers recently was approved by the
State Government.
2.14      The above efforts generally provide a daily meal, principally
balahar, to enrolled beneficiaries for 300 days a year.
2.15      However, all of Tamil Nadu's nutrition programs combined reach
less than 10% of the state's pre-school children and an even lower proportion
of pregnant and nursing women, and they appear to have had relatively modest
nutritional impact on beneficiary groups. A number of studies have taken
place to assess both the outcome of such programs and the reasons for their
limited success. The main constraints reported are:
(a) Feeding programs fail to reach intended beneficiaries
because of weaknesses in setting or adhering to nutri-
tional criteria with respect to target groups;
(b) Prolonged on-site feeding tends to substitute for food
which beneficiaries otherwise would consume at home;
(c) Take-home food is shared among other family members,
thus diluting its impact on intended beneficiaries;
(d) Balahar is too coarse and bulky for very young children
to consume;
(e) Administrative shortcomings, including supervision
deficiencies and optimistic expectations about the
use of workers' time, have inhibited effective nutri-
tion education and promotion of home food production
activities;
(f) Most nutrition activities are confined to centers
which operate on a drop-in basis rather than through
active and sustained efforts to identify and recruit
those at higher risk;
(g) Nutrition education campaigns have been neither
sufficiently sustained nor oriented toward practical
behavioral change; and
(h) Without adequate health care, infectious diseases
and diarrhea continue to exacerbate problems which
existing programs are expected to resolve.
2.16      The State Government now spends around US$8.8 million yearly on
nutrition, mainly from its revenue account. The school feeding program of
the Education Department accounts for around three-fourths of that expenditure.
Total State outlays on nutrition have remained relatively constant in recent



years, indicating both a sustained commitment to such efforts and continuing
Government concern that Tamil Nadu nutrition problems are too urgent for
resolution only through the long-term process of satisfactory economic growth.
However, uncertainty about the impact and efficiency of its existing interven-
tion efforts has acted as a brake on raising State Government budget alloca-
tions for nutrition and led to the current request for IDA assistance. In
particular, the State has become increasingly aware of the need to improve the
targeting and lower the unit cost of its interventions, to promote better
nutrition and health practices within families and to strengthen its maternal
and child health (MCH) services to improve the utilization of available
nutrients by the most vulnerable groups.
2.17      Because of the magnitude of the problem and the scale of the re-
sources required to combat it, the Government seeks IDA support to develop
and install an improved system which would achieve the foregoing aims. While
initially to get under way in rural areas because of plan priorities, the new
system would be expected to be replicated throughout the state 1/ and lead to
redesign and consolidation of current intervention programs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Goals, Strategy, Design and Objectives
3.01      The  main project goal would be to increase the efficiency, coverage
and impact of Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) nutrition efforts. This would
be accomplished principally by systematic concentration for the first time on
the nutritionally most vulnerable group, children aged 6-36 months. However,
the project also would improve the focus, quality and reach of nutrition-
related services for other groups at high nutritional risk--pregnant and
nursing women and older pre-school children. The Government's decision to
focus on infants and younger children results from recognition that children
under three years of age account for an estimated 90% of pre-school mortality
in the state and that malnourishment is a leading or associated cause of
around 75% of those deaths in the under-three age group.
3.02      The Government's strategy is to achieve results which would justify
higher levels of nutrition expenditure through development of an effective
combination of specific actions involving:
(a)  expansion and restructuring of the State's nutrition
delivery program;
(b) education efforts to improve home nutrition of pre-
school children; and
(c)  expanded MCH care.
1/   The nutrition and health component of the Madras Urban Project II
recently appraised by IDA is expected to be run along the lines proposed
in the Project.



-9-
Monitoring and evaluation would have a key role in the strategy since, through
the project, the Government expects to reduce the unit costs of nutrition ser-
vices, thereby increasing efficiency and easing the fiscal burden of expanding
the program state-wide and extending its full services to all pre-school
children. Nutrition surveillance data generated monthly through Lhe nutrition
delivery component would provide early warning of the onset of nutrition
emergencies from causes such as crop failures. These findings would help
enable the Government to avert further nutritional deterioration by timely
targeting of stand-by emergency food supplies to affected areas. Evaluation
would help identify ways of refining the project activities to improve their
cost-effectiveness, while monitoring would assure timely implementation of key
activities. An important feature of the project strategy is its explicit
emphasis on trying to get families themselves to do a better job of providing
appropriate food and nutrition-related care for young children through an
intensive and carefully planned new program of nutrition and health education.
3.03      The Government's approach draws on its own experience combined with
lessons learned from programs elsewhere in India and in other developing coun-
tries. The project results from 16 months of intensive dialogue with the
State and Central Governments. Particularly close collaboration between IDA
and the GOTN during preparation resulted in substantial refinement and simpli-
fication of the original project design. The Government initially had pro-
posed incorporating village water supply and agricultural interventions in
the project, including rainfed pulse production, improved on-farm storage
and modernization of rice and oil processing facilities. These components
ultimately were excluded because it was felt they would complicate project
management and could best be tackled through programs exclusively directed to
the agriculture and water supply sectors. Other results of the preparation
process included considerable reorientation of the proposed roles of field
workers in the nutrition and health delivery systems and development of
suitable arrangements for coordination of their work. Another outcome was
the deve'lopment of explicit criteria and operational procedures. for a new
project-assisted food supplementation program which departs from the existing
state pattern of prolonged supplementation, mainly for children over three
years of age, generally with scant regard to nutrition criteria.
3.04      Two innovative features distinguish the proposed project's
approach to food supplementation from current Tamil Nadu programs. First,
child beneficiaries would be identified and monitored through a nutrition
surveillance system to be set up in project villages. Second, supplementa-
tion would continue only as long as required for a child to achieve adequate
nutritional recovery and would be accompanied by intensive nutrition education
of key family members to promote permanently-improved home feeding practices,
within the financial reach of most project families.
3.05      The main objective of the project would be to improve the nutrition
and health conditions of pre-school children, with emphasis on those aged
6-36 months, and pregnant and nursing women. After four full years of
project operation in each district, (see para. 3.06) the Government anticipates



- 10 -
a 50% reduction in the currently estimated 60% incidence of protein-energy
malnutrition 1/ among children under three years of age. Additionally, the
project would contribute to the Government's goal of achieving the following
objectives after five operational years in each project area: (a) around a
25% reduction in the infant mortality rate, now estimated at 125 per 1,000 2/
and in the currently estimated mortality rate of 28 per 1,000 children between
the ages of one and four years; (b) reduction to 5t of the incidence of
Vitamin A deficiency in children under five years of age, currently estimated
at up to 27%; and (c) reduction to 20% of the currently estimated 55%
incidence of nutritional anemia in pregnant and nursing women. While
ambitious, these objectives are considered attainable as part of the State's
overall development effort.
B. Location
3.06      The project would take place in the rural areas of six districts
where nutrition conditions are among the most precarious in the state,
according to TNNS analysis--Chengalpattu, Madurai, North Arcot, Pudukottai,
Ramanathapuram, and Tirunelveli. These districts contain the largest number
of taluks 3/ where TNNS reported nutrition conditions to be least satisfac-
tory in terms of calorie needs met by the population. The districts are
grouped geographically in two areas: Madurai, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram
and Tirunelveli blanket the southern third of Tamil Nadu; in those districts
average calorie intake is estimated at 76-84% of requirements. Chengalpattu,
which has similar nutrition characteristics, and North Arcot, where calorie
intakes are estimated to average below 74% of requirements, adjoin each other
in the northeast. The project area consists of all 170 rural blocks in those
districts. Average rural population per block varies widely by project
district, ranging from 56,700 in Chengalpattu to 94,300 in North Arcot.
C. Phasing
3.07      The project would be implemented on a block-by-block basis and phased
in gradually over five years, with final evaluation to take place during the
sixth year. Implementation in the first year would be confined to Kottampatti
Block of Madurai District, where the basic project design would be tested and
refined as necessary. Another 33 blocks in Madurai and Chengalpattu Districts
would come on stream in the second year, followed by 43 blocks in the third
year. A review of project operations also would take place toward the end
1/   Mission estimate based on TNNS and other data.
2/   This government estimate is about 45% lower than TNNS conclusions but
will be verified through baseline studies in project areas.
3/   Districts are divided into taluks containing an average of 12 blocks.
In project areas, average block size is 78,000 population.



- 11 -
of the third operational year to guide the final two years of implementatior
when 43 and 50 blocks, respectively would become operational. During negoti-
tions, the State Government gave assurances that the terms of reference for
the Kottampatti pilot block review and for the mid-term review would be sati-
factory to IDA .n-d that the project design and implementation schedule
would be adjusted according to their findings as feasible, taking i11to accotnit
IDA comments on the reviews.
D. Description
1.   Summary and Main Features
3.08      The project would consist principally of linked programs of nutrition
and health services delivery. These would be implemented simultaneously and
combined to produce substantial nutritional improvements in the target group.
Intensive informal education of mothers and other key family members to
improve child-feeding practices and management of diarrhea among youngsters
would support and reinforce the nutrition and health components.
3.09      An outreach system initiated under the nutrition services component
would promote regular nutrition surveillance of participating children under
three years of age in project villages. It also would serve as a conduit for
selective interventions to counter malnutrition among target groups, including
short-term food supplementation for vulnerable children aged 6-36 months
and prophylaxis against specific nutrient deficiencies. Strengthened basic
health care delivery would emphasize MCH services and prevention and cure of
nutrition-linked health disorders. Since this innovative approach involves
the development and implementation of new and as yet untested delivery
systems, the project would place heavy emphasis on monitoring and evaluation.
Evaluation would continue through a sixth project-financed year to analyze
project impact and cost-effectiveness as fully as possible and to provide the
basis for future modification of the program and its subsequent expansion to
other parts of the state. Project coordination would be managed by a small
office set up for that purpose.
3.10      The project would finance:
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)  about 1,600 health sub-centers (HSCs);
(ii) 60-bed hostels at nine institutions to train female
multipurpose health workers (MPHWs);
(iii) a training facility to accommodate 150 female health
supervisors (lady health visitors);
(iv) training and hostel wings at 39 primary health centers
(PHCs) where field training of female MPHWs and lady
health visitors (LHVs) would take place; and



- 12 -
(v) a 100-place facility for in-service training of health
workers, block extension educators and medical officers
(MOs).
(b) Training costs consisting of incremental staff, materials and
student stipends for the training of about:
(i)  2,500 female MPHWs, 800 LHVs, 75 public health nurse
(PRN) instructors and 830 MOs; and
(ii)  9,000 community nutrition workers (CNWs), 900 of their
immediate supervisors and 250 other supervisory staff
involved in nutrition delivery at block, taluk and
district levels.
(c) Vehicles, consisting of a total of about:
(i)  102 sedans and station wagons, including 81 for nutrition
supervision, 16 for health supervision, three for project
coordination use, and one each for communications and
monitoring and evaluation;
(ii)  Nine buses for project-assisted health training institutions;
(iii)  212 motorcycles, including 191 for health supervision, seven
for communications work, and 14 for monitoring and evaluation;
and
(iv)  3,200 bicycles, including 2,600 for use by MPHWs and 600 for
use by supervisory and office staff responsible for project
nutrition, health and communications monitoring and evaluation
activities.
(d) Upgrading, furnishing and equipping of:
(i) about 9,000 community nutrition centers (CNCs); and
(ii) the project coordination office.
(e) Furniture and equipment for:
(i)  a small micro-biology laboratory to monitor the quality
and safety of the supplement and other foods, and to
carry out serum analysis as part of impact evaluation;
(ii)  a communications campaign and monitoring and evaluation
offices in each of the six project districts;
(iii)  a nutrition supervisory office in each of the 170 project
blocks, 68 project taluks, the six project districts and
at state headquarters; and



- 13 -
(iv) a health supervisory office in each of the 14 project divisions.
(f) Costs of designing, producing and disseminating films, filmstrips,
radio broadcasts, folk plays, manuals, posters, charts, and related
materials for nutrition and health education campaigns and for
training neighborhood leaders.
(g) Costs of technical assistance for communications and monitoring and
evaluation.
(h) Costs of food supplements for beneficiary children and selected
pregnant and nursing women.
(i) Drugs, vaccines and supplies for MPHW, LHV, PHC and CNW use.
(j) Project evaluation activities, including baseline and special
studies, surveys, and data processing costs.
(k) Incremental operating costs of the project, including:
(i) salaries of health and nutrition workers and supervisors,
communications staff, monitoring and evaluation and project
coordination personnel;
(ii) rent and running costs of CNCs, taluk nutrition offices,
the project coordination office and communications and
monitoring and evaluation field offices;
(iii) running costs of project-financed HSCs; and
(iv) supplies for CNCs, HSCs and other facilities included
in the project.
(1) Funds for innovative activities to be developed during the project on
the basis of criteria to be agreed upon between the State Government
and IDA.
2.   Detailed Project Features
Nutrition Delivery Services
3.11      This component would concentrate on strengthening the State's
capacity to identify children under three years of age at high nutritional
risk, to monitor their nutritional status and to reach them, as well as older
pre-school children and pregnant and nursing women with specific measures to
correct or prevent protein-energy malnutrition and other nutrition problems
such as vitamin A deficiencies and iron deficiency anemia. This would take
place through a network of CNCs, each staffed by a full-time female CNW and a
helper, recruited and trained under the project. The component would include
development of a nutrition surveillance system for pre-school children, with
emphasis on those aged 6-36 months, and a new program of short-term food
supplementation for children in that age group identified as being at highest
nutritional risk.



- 14 -
3.12      Community Nutrition Workers and Centers.  The CNW-CNC network is
the key to the project's nutrition delivery system. One CNC, staffed by a CNW
and helper, would be established per 1,500 population, roughly equivalent to
the average size of a Tamil Nadu village. In this respect, the new system
resembles existing pre-school nutrition delivery patterns in the state. The
average target population per CNW would be 250 pre-school children, including
around 100 aged 6-36 months, and 45 pregnant or lactating women. CNWs would
be recruited from the village they would serve.
3.13      However, the role of the CNW and project recruitment procedures,
as well as the functions of the CNC, also mark a substantial departure from
those existing patterns. A selection committee including a senior nutrition
supervisor and a representative of the village council would choose the local
CNW. CNWs would have a primary education. Whenever possible they would be
recruited from among the most disadvantaged village groups, which have a high
propensity for malnourishment. Preferably, these women would have well-
nourished children of their own.
3.14     Each month the CNW would weigh all children aged 6-36 months in
her village. Where appropriate, child-weighing would begin at four months of
age. These children also would continue to be weighed quarterly through their
fifth year. Weighing would take place both at the CNC and in village neighbor-
hoods in accordance with a regular schedule reflecting prevailing patterns of
women's work both at and away from home. CNWs would use a portable bar scale
supplied by the project and would record children's weights on both a chart
which mothers would retain and a form kept at the CNC which also would contain
health data, including records of immunization and other services provided
by MPHWs. The CNW would use the weighing process both to convey nutrition
education and to identify candidates for the short-term food supplement
program which she and her helper would administer at the CNC. These weight
recordings would be central to the nutrition surveillance system to be
initiated through the project. About 30% of the CNW's time would be spent
on surveillance and supplementation activities.
3.15      CNWs would have four additional important responsibilities.  They
would give talks and demonstrations to groups of women, promoting better
weaning and child-feeding practices, and would discuss other topics relating
to good nutrition. They would provide prophylaxis against specific nutrient
deficiencies through semi-annual vitamin A dosage for pre-school children
and regular administration of iron and folate supplements for pregnant women.
They would be responsible for tri-annual administration of deworming medicine
for pre-school children and a program of diarrhea management which would
include supplying of a pre-packaged glucose-electrolytes mixture and arrowroot
powder for oral rehydration and for continued feeding of pre-school children
who fail to respond to home treatment. Supplies for these activities would
be provided by the Health Department, stocked at PHCs and distributed through
nutrition supervisors to CNWs. Finally, CNWs would organize women and children
for village immunization and health clinics carried out by MPHWs and would
refer pre-school children for MPHW services when indicated.
3.16      The CNC would be the site of four major activities:
(a) weighing of children aged 6-36 months;



- 15 -
(b) nutrition education;
(c) distribution of food supplements for on-site consump-
tion by eligible young children and selected pregnant
and nursing women; and
(d) maintenance of village nutrition and health records.
3.17      CNCs would be existing buildings with a minimum room space of 30 m
selected in accordance with agreed criteria by a committee consisting of the
Block Development Officer (BDO), a local government engineer, a representa-
tive of the village council and a senior nutrition supervisor. Selection
criteria include proximity to disadvantaged populations, access to water, and
certain construction characteristics. It is anticipated that suitable CNC
space readily would be available in all but a small fraction of project vil-
lages at a yearly rental averaging around US$36. A cement floor and latrine
would be installed at each CNC, which also would be equipped with simple
furniture, including a desk and chair, three cupboards, shelves, mats, a
kerosene stove, a blackboard and utensils for cooking demonstrations and
serving children who require semi-solid supplementation.
3.18      CNC activity patterns would be flexible to accommodate those of
village women. Typically, the CNC would open early in the morning when the
most severely malnourished children would arrive for supplementation. They
would remain at the CNC long enough to consume two rations. Later in the
morning, weighing would take place; eligible pregnant and nursing women and
other children would arrive for on-site supplementation. Arrangements for
distribution of vitamin A and iron supplements and deworming medication would
be worked out by individual CNWs and their supervisors; in most cases, the CNC
is expected to be the focal point for such activities.
3.19      Initially, mothers or grandmothers would be required to bring
eligible children to the CNC, observe weighing activities and feed their
children, mixing the rations with boiled water when semi-solid supplementation
is required. However, once the program is established, older siblings could
continue to deliver and collect children to be supplemented, particularly
during times of peak demand for agricultural labor. The above activities
probably would take an average of 6 hours daily. However, the CNC would
reopen frequently for nutrition education talks, demonstrations and related
activities led by CNWs, who also would make home visits and reach women at
water taps and other places where they gather.
3.20      The State Government plans to develop a statewide CNC-CNW program
depending upon the experience from the proposed Project and to cover older
pre-school children as warranted. Communities themselves would be encouraged
during the project to take increasing financial and operational responsibility
for such activities. The Government would hope to phase down its contribution
wherever the CNC-CNW system has operated for four years. Ultimately the
Government would seek to limit its financing to equipment and food costs, with
CNCs either donated or rented by village councils or other groups and the work



- 16 -
of the CNW either being paid for by a local source or performed by volunteers.
The gradual phasing out of CNCs would be feasible, particularly if nutrition
education succeeded in substantially reducing the risk that food supplements
would be shared among all children - which now appears likely - if taken home.
Shifting to a take-home supplement, which might then be made available through
the village fair-price shop, would reduce the need for CNCs if -7rangements
could be made for weighing and nutrition education to take place elsewhere.
The project would encourage neighborhood participation in these activities:
orientation sessions would be held for neighborhood leaders and the CNWs
would also encourage mothers themselves to weigh their children. With the
foregoing objectives in mind, the Social Welfare Department would develop
prospective modes of such participation, discuss them with IDA and begin
applying them during the project.
3.21      The post-project role of CNWs (contract workers), would be determined
partly by Government success in obtaining local financing for their continued
services or their replacement by village volunteers. Over time, CNWs might
be absorbed into the health system as community health workers (CHWs) in
accordance with the suggested national pattern of primary health care.
Tamil Nadu so far has not recruited CHWs, experimenting instead with several
alternate ways of providing combined village nutrition and health coverage.
Should the state ultimately accept CHWs, CNWs would be logical candidates for
such recruitment because of their skills and experience and would be expected
to receive preferential consideration for such work.
3.22      Supervision, Training and Management.  A cadre of around 900 nutri-
tion supervisors would oversee CNW performance. Each would supervise 10 CNWs,
mainly through twice-monthly visits. Supervisors would be women with B.S.
degrees, preferably in home science. Around 400 would be chosen from existing
Social Welfare extension staff; the others would be new recruits. Supervisors
would verify the accuracy of CNW weighings and make final selection of children
to be admitted to the food supplement program and discharged from it. Super-
visors also would distribute vitamin A, iron and folate, deworming and diarrhea
management supplies monthly to CNWs and monitor their use. They would obtain
these medications from the nutrition instructress to be recruited, trained and
posted in each project block, who would collect supplies from PHCs.
3.23      Initial training of CNWs would consist of two-month training courses
at block headquarters in groups of 25-30 and in-service training thereafter.
Such training would be organized and carried out by an instructress in each
block. The 170 instructresses would have postgraduate degrees in nutrition
or home science, preferably with teaching or field work experience. The final
week of initial CNW training also would be attended by female MPHWs from the
same area because of the complementarities of their roles. In-service training
sessions would take place twice monthly at selected CNCs in the afternoon for
batches of ten CNWs. At that time, supervisors would discuss problems and
progress with their full CNW complement. The instructress also would hold
monthly in-service training sessions for all block CNWs and supervisors at
block headquarters.
3.24      Supervisors and instructresses would receive two months' initial
training; Sri Avinashilingam Home Science College (SAHSC), which has the expe-
rience and capacity to run such programs, has agreed to do so. SAHSC would



- 17 -
develop special curricula for this purpose in consultation with an advisory
committee to be set up by the Social Welfare Department. Instructresses'
curricula would be derived partly from the specific content of CNW training
but also would emphasize teaching methods. Supervisors' curricula would
stress personnel management and supervision. Assurances were recetved during
negotiations that training curricula for CNWs, supervisors and instructresses
would be furnished to IDA for review by August 31, 1980, and would thereafter
be implemented taking IDA comments into account.
3.25      The rest of the component's management structure would be as follows
(see Annex 6a): A taluk nutrition officer (TNO) and support staff would oversee
CNW-CNC operations in each taluk, averaging 12 per district. TNOs would be
graduates with degrees in nutrition, social work or related fields, preferably
with practical experience in community development. Since taluks contain an
average of three blocks each, each TNO would supervise around three instruc-
tresses and 15 supervisors, as well as a superintendent in each block respon-
sible for food supplement distribution to CNCs. TNOs would spend 20 days per
month in the field and would hold regular monthly meetings with supervisors
and instructresses. Around two-thirds of TNOs would be new recruits, requiring
a minimum of three weeks' training in Government procedures which the Social
Welfare Department would organize and carry out. All TNOs also would require
in-service training in personnel and basic financial management, organizational
methods and other executive skills.  These programs would be developed during
the first project year by local management training institutions in consulta-
tion with the Social Welfare Department.
3.26      A district nutrition officer (DNO) with the rank of Assistant Social
Welfare Director would supervise and manage the component in each district
assisted by a section superintendent and support staff. Each DNO would report
to the Collector in charge of the district and to the Joint Director of Social
Welfare in Madras, who would have project-wide responsibility for the operation
of the component in the Directorate of Social Welfare. Component support
staff at block, taluk and district levels would be responsible for operational
logistics including payment of salaries, accounts and auditing, and the regular
flow and analysis of data for performance monitoring.
3.27      To facilitate supervision, the component would finance the costs of
one sedan each at state and district levels, one 4-wheel drive vehicle and
one bicycle for each taluk nutrition office, and furniture and equipment for
block, taluk, district and state project nutrition offices.
3.28      Food Supplement.  The food supplement would be designed specifically
to be acceptable and beneficial to younger malnourished children who cannot
consume or readily digest enough balahar for their needs. It would consist
principally of a rice-pulse mixture, with added sugar, vitamins and minerals.
The supplement was developed in collaboration with the Protein Foods and
Nutrition Development Association of India and pretested for palatability
at the Institute of Child Growth in Tamil Nadu. Through simple technology
already in common use, the supplement would be pre-cooked and shaped into
20-gram briquettes containing around 70 calories for beneficiaries to consume
either directly or in semi-solid form by dilution in water. Its shelf life
would be 90 days. The raw material mix could be varied to take advantage of



- 18 -
food price changes. The usual ration would be 40 grams for children under
two years of age and 80 grams for beneficiaries aged 2-3 years. Severely
malnourished children, estimated at 10% of beneficiaries, would receive
double rations. Around 30% of pregnant women, totaling around 275,000
beneficiaries, also would receive a daily supplement of 80 grams for the last
trimester of pregnancy and the first four months of lactation. They would be
selected by health workers according to criteria agreed on with IDA designed
to identify women at high risk of giving birth to underweight babies (that is,
less than 2500 grams).
3.29      The supplier would pack and distribute the supplement to the block
level. The 32 metric tons of supplement for the Kottampatti test would be
produced at its existing pilot plant by Gandhigram Rural Institute in Madurai.
Gandhigram's plant has a capacity of 500 kg daily and has produced various
weaning foods which the Institute has used in its own experimental programs.
The project would provide Gandhigram with some replacement equipment to
produce the supplement which also would be used in later project-financed
trials of alternative supplement formulations. The supplement for the second
and third project years would be supplied by the parastatal Tamil Nadu Agro-
Industries Corporation (TNAIC) at a negotiated annual contract price based on
reviews of input and production costs in accordance with standard Government
procedures. By the fourth year, the food supplement requirement would be
expected to be large enough--around 4,000 tons--to attract competitive
interest. If so, local competitive bidding would replace negotiated sales for
the two final project years. Otherwise, TNAIC would continue to supply the
supplement requirements for the final two project years at a fair and reason-
able price. The appraisal mission concluded that Gandhigram and TNAIC would
be able to provide the supplement at an economic price. Although costs of the
food supplement are included in the project, IDA would not disburse against
them. Based on expected processing costs and currently-averaged input prices
reflecting seasonal swings in availability, the delivered cost of the supple-
ment at block headquarters was estimated at appraisal at Rs 3.75 per kilo, or
Rs 0.30 per 80 gram ration delivered to each CNC. This works out to an average
estimated ration cost of Rs 33 per child beneficiary or Rs 65 per maternal
beneficiary. Food requirements for the project are estimated to total around
13,000 metric tons over five years, or a negligible offtake of Tamil Nadu's
overall production of the commodities involved.
3.30      Calculations of estimated project food requirements resulted from
development of a program model which takes into account a wide range of
variables influencing demand. These include initial malnourishment rates
and differential supplementation rates by age group and nutrition status,
assumptions as to relapse -;ates, the numbers of women to be supplemented
and estimated beneficiary participation rates. Project management would
use the model to adjust ration requirements as these variables change
during the project.
3.31      Supplement Eligibility Criteria.  A particularly innovative feature
of this component would be the use, initially on a pilot scale, of weight gain
as a basis for identifying children aged 6-36 months at high nutritional risk.
Current nutrition surveillance systems rely on weight for age alone, as is



- 19 -
common in India, or combined with weight for height, height for age or arm
circumference. Some combination of those measures is generally preferable
to identify active malnourishment since a child's low weight for age could
reflect the stunting effect of previous malnutrition, which only a combination
of other indicate.-s would detect. The use of body weight changes, when
applied effectively, is simpler and more dynamic than combinations of the
other procedures since a child's failure to put on adequate weight over
several months unmistakably would indicate either the presence of active
malnourishment or the increasing risk of its onset. The weight gain method
would be tested in Kottampatti and compared with the weight for age method.
If found operationally feasible and effective, the weight gain method would be
adopted for the rest of the project. Pending analysis of these test results,
selection criteria for child beneficiaries of the food supplement under the
period would conform to existing GOI policy.
3.32      The use of weight gain criteria would permit a sharper targeting
of the food supplement: it would exclude stunted children gaining adequate
weight and it would provide preventive therapy for those most likely to become
malnourished. Admission criteria for the supplement therefore are designed
both to exclude children who do not need supplementation and to ensure the
inclusion of virtually all those at high nutritional risk. Because of their
exponentially higher risk of mortality, all severely malnourished children
aged 6-36 months would be enrolled at once in the supplementation program.
Other children in that age group would enter the program after failing to gain
adequate weight over two months in the case of children aged 6-12 months or
three months in the case of children between the ages of 1-3 years. The CNW
would weigh children; supervisors would carry out verification weighings
before enrolling children into the food supplement program or discharging them
from it. Multiple weighings would reduce measurement errors resulting from
three factors: children's normal daily weight fluctuation, the + 50 gram
accuracy of the bar scale, and errors in recording the reading of the scale.
3.33      All child supplementation would be daily for an initial period of
90 days. The supplement would serve both to help restore children to adequate
rates of weight gain and to demonstrate the importance of better home-feeding.
Current data on food intake by income class indicates that, for all but the
poorest families, the estimated average calorie gap for children under
three years of age could be met by redistribution to them of less than 5%
of the total amount of food consumed by adult family members. CNWs would
stress this aspect of nutrition education both at CNCs and in their home
visits. Experience in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere indicates that 90-120 days of
adequate feeding generally is sufficient to reverse the nutrition decline in
most children, although relapses appear common in the subsequent absence of
improved health care and family food practices. However, a partial assessment
of a 46-village nutrition program in Madurai district, which combined nutrition
education with feeding for about 90 days, indicated that as many as 70% of the
participating children in particular villages surveyed managed to retain their
nutritional momentum as long as four years after completion of the program.



- 20 
3.34      Most children would be expected to gain 500 grams, the acceptable
minimum, during the first 90 days of supplementation and would then be
discharged. The rest would be referred for examination at the nearest PHC,
since their failure to gain sufficient weight probably would indicate serious
health disorders, unless home feeding had declined or remained grossly
inadequate. These children then would continue in the program in 30-day
increments while the CNW, assisted by neighborhood leaders, made a special
nutrition education effort with the family, subject to a maximum of six
months' continuous supplementation. Such a restriction is considered essen-
tial to: (a) ensure that only children who can benefit from the supplement
receive it, and (b) reduce the likelihood that families would use the supple-
ment as a long-term substitute for food which the child otherwise would
consume at home. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that criteria
for entry into and discharge from the food supplement program for children and
women would be satisfactory to IDA.
3.35      On-site feeding involves substantially less risk of sharing with
other family members than take-home rations. However, some families at first
might perceive the supplement as small in relation to the opportunity cost of
daily visits to the CNC, limiting participation by some children and eligible
women. Steps to deal with this in advance include siting the CNC in as
accessible a location as feasible and specific CNW emphasis on continued
face-to-face recruitment of those eligible for the supplement, particularly
the most disadvantaged. The monitoring and surveillance systems also would
provide clear signals on participation rates. Moreover, flexibility regarding
the time of ration delivery is built into the project and modest changes in
ration size also could be considered if circumstances warrant. These aspects
of the project would be scrutinized carefully during the Kottampatti and
mid-term reviews and would receive regular attention from project management.
The annual recurring cost of the supplement program, including the ration and
all applicable overhead, would be US$2.96 per village child aged 6-36 months
and US$3.75 for each pregnant lactating woman.
Rural Health Services
3.36      This component would improve the quality, efficiency and coverage
of rural health care in project areas through installation of an MPHW system
involving the deployment of one male and one female worker to an HSC serving
a population of 5,000. Tamil Nadu already has an adequate number of male
workers in place for that purpose and a satisfactory program for retraining
them already is under way. However, the State would have virtually to double
the present number of female health worker posts and more than double the
number of HSCs to achieve suitable coverage ratios.
3.37      Basic rural health care in project areas is now provided mainly
by a network of one PHC and an average of 6 HSCs per project block. PHCs
basically are out-patient facilities but usually contain up to six beds for
emergencies, obstetrical cases and vasectomies. Each has a small operating
room, a small pharmacy and a laboratory, along with housing in separate
buildings for its three medical officers and support staff. Each HSC is
staffed by an auxiliary nurse-midwife (ANM), who concentrates on postpartum
care and deliveries, performing an average of ten deliveries per month.



- 21 -
ANMs carry out around 30% of all deliveries, the highest service coverage of
any part of the state health system, and some HSC-based activities. However,
ANMs do not adequately penetrate villages with other services. This is due
partly to their large area of crverage, which now runs from an average of
36 km in Chengalpattu to 50 km in North Arcot. In addition to thin coverage,
problems impeding more effective ANM performance include training and supervi-
sion deficiencies and inadequate supplies of drugs and medicines. Male health
workers are segregated into cadres each responsible for a single program such
as malaria control, tuberculosis control, immunizations and health inspection.
One LHV supervises three ANMs. One male supervisor oversees the work of five
male field workers. A PHC medical officer supervises all block health staff
with the help of an extension educator and health inspector.
3.38      Under the MPHW system, which the Government intends to introduce
widely by the end of 1985, each male MPHW would carry out the combined immuni-
zation, communicable disease control and other tasks formerly implemented
through separate cadres. ANMs or new recruits to be trained as female MPHWs
would concentrate on pre- and postnatal services, deliveries, infant and child
care, treatment of minor ailments and referrals to higher levels of health
care. The female MPHW would be required to cover an average of no more than
half of the previous HSC geographic area, thereby permitting more intensive
contact with beneficiaries. Both male and female workers would continue to
motivate individuals and groups to take part in family welfare activities,
distribute contraceptives and provide follow-up services to acceptors.
3.39      The HSC team would deliver a comprehensive package of basic health
services available to those who need them. These changes also would permit
each LHV to supervise four instead of three female workers while increasing
the frequency of her contact with them because of the reduced geographic area
involved. After four years of operation in each project area, the component
would be expected to raise antenatal registrations to 80% and tetanus toxoid
immunization and the number of assisted deliveries to 60% of pregnant women
reached by health services. This is a significant jump from existing coverage
levels estimated at 54%, 30% and 30% respectively. It also would triple the
average number of contacts between pregnant women and female health workers.
3.40      Each MPHW would be expected to spend around four hours daily
in field visits. The MPHW team schedule would ensure that one member is
always available at the HSC. The team thus would pay an average of 2-3
visits weekly to each village in its area of coverage. Job descriptions
agreed with IDA for MPHWs and supervisors stress the importance of village-
level performance, its supervision and monitoring.
3.41      Village visits are espcecially important because the MPHW is the
principal contact point between individuals and the State's rural health
delivery system. In this respect, Tamil Nadu differs from patterns of health



- 22 -
delivery in many other states through which the initial contact point is a
part-time community health worker (CHW) in each village. Tamil Nadu has yet
to adopt the concept of CHWs. Presently, it is experimenting with several
alternate ways of providing health care at the village level. One is a
system through which an additional physician is posted to the PHC and three
of its four doctors spend part of each working day in villages to provide
on-site health care. The mobile medical team concept, for which an evaluation
by the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare is nearing completion,
operates in 28 blocks. Another approach now getting under way on a limited
scale is the provision of matching funds to voluntary agencies which agree to
organize their own community health services and hire a part-time physician
and paraprofessional staff. A health project for Danish aid (DANIDA) financ-
ing is under preparation in two districts--Salem and South Arcot. While
specific details remain to be worked out, both the Health Department and
DANIDA intend to include some approach to community-based health care.
3.42      Field observations before and during appraisal indicated that,
despite Government expectations to the contrary, the mobile medical team
system probably would prove expensive and difficult to administer effectively.
Furthermore, applicability of the matching grants concept would appear to be
limited by the shortage of voluntary groups at the village level and the
poverty of those who most need access to health care. Thus, neither of the
two approaches now being tried would seem to provide a cost-effective way of
getting health care to the village.
3.43      The appraisal and previous missions felt that integration of village
nutrition and health services through a single department would be the most
effective and efficient way of providing village nutrition and health care,
rather than continuing the division of these responsibilities between Social
Welfare and Health. In addition to facilitating administrative and technical
supervision, establishment of a single cadre of community workers under Health
would promote optimal delivery of a fully-integrated package of village-level
care to improve rural nutrition and health conditions. However, the State
Government believed it premature to consider a major reorganization of its
established nutrition and health delivery systems until after the mobile
medical team and additional options had been fully studied. Moreover, the
State Government considers the deployment of CNWs combined with MPHWs as a
particularly promising way of providing effective nutrition and MCH care at
the community level for several reasons. First, community health workers are
almost exclusively men under the all-India pattern which results in limited
attention to MCH and nutrition activities, despite the priority importance of
these subjects at the village level. Second, CNWs recruited from "successful"
mothers are likely to have high credibility with their clientel.  Third,
nutrition and MCH services, which make up the basic health care needs of young
children and pregnant and lactating women, are likely to be carried out better
under the project because of fewer competing demands on female MPHW time. The
State Government expects the incorporation of certain nutrition-related health
tasks into the work of the CNW to result in a functionally integrated service
package, while preserving the administrative responsibility of the Social
Welfare Department for nutrition delivery in Tamil Nadu, a pattern which
accords with national policy. When the results of ongoing and planned



- 23 -
experiments have been evaluated, some expansion of CNW functions to include
other common health problems may be considered together with a decision on the
most effective organizational and administrative structure and procedures0
3.44      To facilitate consideration of a possible shift to a fully-integrated
community nutrition and health system, the Kottampatti review would include an
assessment of the extent to which the combined services of CNWs and MPHWs meet
the need for community nutrition and health care. If significant gaps were
revealed, a modified nutrition-health delivery system would be worked out and
tested during the second project year. The State Government gave assurances
during negotiations that the results of the various experiments with ways of
providing health care at the village level in the State would be taken into
account during the mid-term project review (para. 3.07). Assurances also were
received during negotiations that, should the State modify its health system
in project areas during the Project, the State Government, after consultation
with IDA, would take all necessary measures to maintain the efficiency, quality
and level of nutrition and health services and ensure appropriate use of CNWs
to avoid duplication of effort.
3.45      Health Sub-Centers.  The 1,600 HSCs to be built and equipped include
166 to replace inadequate facilities, currently rented. Each 65 m HSC would
be a one-story building of simple brick or stone construction with an asbestos
sheet roof. The use of factory-made materials such as cement and glass would
be minimized; locally-available wood would be used in place of steel wherever
possible. The HSC would consist of a clinic room, an examination room, a
latrine and living quarters for the female MPHW in accordance with designs and
working dra'ings already approved by IDA. Construction costs would run about
US$55 per m . HSC sites in each project block would be selected by a team
consisting of the PHC medical officer, the BDO, a local government engineer
and the president of the panchayat union, representing village councils in the
block. Locational criteria for HSCs agreed on with IDA include proximity to
good roads, public transport, electric supply and other public facilities,
and adequate drainage. Each site would be less than half a kilometer from a
perennial source of 500 gallons of potable water daily for HSC use.
3.46      Around 50% of HSC sites would be donated or already publicly owned.
Based on rural land prices in project districts, the average purchase cost
of a site would run around US$161. Construction schedules would allow an
average of 10 months for acquiring purchased sites after their identification;
HSCs would be ready for use in the first three months of their scheduled
implementation year.
3.47      Training Requirements and Facilities.  Achievement of health training
targets under the project would require a major increase in the numbers of
trained female MPHWs. Eight female MPHW training institutions operate in the
state. These consist of four Government schools, each with an annual output
of 30 students, and four private ones, which annually graduate 40 students
each. The curriculum for the Government institutions is being revised and the
course duration has been shortened from 24 to 18 months. The new curriculum
is more operationally oriented and includes six months' field training. Most
of those trained in Government schools accept MPHW jobs. The private sector
absorbs around 50% of those trained elsewhere. That level of private demand
is expected to continue during the project.



- 24 -
3.48      Government institutions would have to step up their output of female
MHPWs to meet project requirements combined with targets for introducing the
system in Salem and South Arcot districts. Around 476 additional female MPHWs
would be needed there through 1985 as part of the health project now being
prepared for DANIDA financing.
3.49      The component would finance construction and equipping of a 60-bed
hostel to expand accommodation at each of the four existing Government training
institutions for female MPHWs and at five new female MPHW training centers at
district hospitals, which the Government is to open early in 1980, for which
classroom facilities2already are available.  Each hostel would have a plinth
area of around 950 m and would contain 15 four-bed rooms, lavatory and
bathing facilities, a dining and recreation area, a kitchen and a warden's
quarter. The component also would finance construction of 10-bed dormitory-
cum-classroom units at each of 27 PHCs where female MPHW field training would
take place. These facilities would permit the Government to meet requirements
for additional female MPHWs in project and DANIDA districts, as well as
replacement needs for existing female health workers in the state.
3.50      Tamil Nadu also would have to increase its output of LHVs to meet
supervision targets for female MPHWs. Only two LHV training schools now
operate in Tamil Nadu. One is an over-crowded Government institution in
Madras where 325 students are accommodated in space designed for 200. The
other is a private institution which takes in 35 trainees per year. Fresh
LHV recruits receive 30 months' training; those promoted from the ANM cadre
receive 18 months' training.  The LHV training curriculum would be revised
to reflect the new role of female MPHWs and would include a 6-month field
training module for Government trainees at selected PHCs. In addition to
training new LHVs, Tamil Nadu also must provide refresher courses and orien-
tation for about 550 already working in project areas. However, the State
requires additional facilities for this purpose.
3.51      To help meet the above initial and in-service LHV training needs,
the component would finance construction and equipment for a new LHV training
facility, probably in Madurai. The new institution would handle all LHV
promotion training of ANMs as well as all in-service training for existing
LHVs. The existing Madras facility would concentrate on initial training of
fresh LHV recruits. The new LHV school would accommodate 150 trainees,
including two annual batches of 50 who would be trained for 18 months each,
and 50 existing LHVs who would receive 16 weeks' refresher training. Also
financed would be a 10-bed dormitory and classroom block for each of the 12
PHCs where LHVs would receive field training from both the existing Madras and
planned new school. These training facilities would be built during the first
year of the project and begin operating from the start of the second project
year.
3.52      In-service orientation to the MPHW system also would be required
for MOs in line with major changes in their role resulting from introduction
of the MPHW system. First, the MO in charge of block operations would have
increased managerial responsibilities as leader of an expanded block health



- 25 -
delivery service team, and would have a substantial role in providing in-
service training for its lower-level workers. Second, the PHC's workload
would change with the addition of complicated deliveries, sputum examinations
for TB and other services. Furthermore, PHCs can anticipate a substantial
increase in daily contacts, now averaging around 300, from MPHW referrals.
Tamil Nadu would organize a program of nine weeks' training to upgrade MO
capabilities for the MPHW system; those specializing in obstetrics and family
planning services would receive an additional three months' training. Because
of high attrition rates, a state-wide total of about 400 MOs would require
such training annually.
3.53      Currently Tamil Nadu has three institutions for in-service train-
ing of health workers, block extension educators and MOs. They are located
in Chengalpattu, Madurai and Salem. Each has a training capacity of 100 and
trains around 300-500 persons per year, depending on the length and type
of course. However, these three family health and welfare training centers
already are stretched to full capacity and cannot take on the additional
in-service load which the project requires. To meet the shortfall, the
Government would set up a fourth 100-bed training center in another part of
the state. Its establishment would provide better geographic distribution of
such training than could be achieved by expanding existing facilities. It
also would prove more suitable in the long run than the temporary option of
setting up special programs for these personnel at existing teaching hospitals
and other facilities. Construction and equipment for hostel and classroom
space at the new facility would be financed under the component during the
first year of the project.
3.54      The per student cost of civil works averages around US$72 per m
for classrooms and hostels. Tamil Nadu would continue to need these facilities
after the project to expand the MPHW system state-wide, to replace personnel
lost by attrition and to provide in-service training for its growing cadre of
LHVs and other professional staff. Estimated annual demand for female MPHWs
and LHVs would remain steady at 500 and 125, respectively, for the first few
post-project years as MPHW implementation took place in the rest of Tamil Nadu
and then would rise and level off at around 1,000 and 250, respectively, for
replacement needs.
3.55      The Department of Highways and Rural Works (HRWD) would be respon-
sible for HSC construction. HRWD relies on a well-established network of
rural contractors. The supervision system extends to the block level, where
a full-time engineer and overseer are stationed, supervised at the taluk
level by an executive engineer. Additional HRWD staff, including short-term
help, is routinely recruited and posted to the block level as necessary. The
block engineer and staff would be responsible for civil works procurement and
construction supervision for HSCs and PHC hostel-classroom facilities. Block
engineers are allotted 1.5% of construction costs yearly for maintenance of
each building erected under their supervision. Major repairs require HRWD
sanction. Additionally, each user department at the block level can approve



- 26 -
at least Rs 700 for minor repairs to any building. The State Public Works
Department would be responsible for construction and maintenance of the other
training facilities through its established organizational and contracting
system, which are satisfactory.
3.56      While under preparation, appropriate training curricula still
need to be made available for MOs, PHN instructors, LHVs and female MPHWs.
Assurances were received during negotiations that training for the above
workers would be carried out according to curricula which would be furnished
to IDA for review by August 31, 1980, and would thereafter be implemented
taking IDA comments into account.
3.57      Lack of adequate supplies of drugs and medicines at PHCs and the
periphery is one problem which the project would help correct. The yearly
PHC allocation for drugs and medicines would be raised to Rs 25,000 from
its present level of Rs 14,000, while that for male and female supervisors
and MPHWs would be raised to Rs 1,800, a 50% increase over present levels.
The component would finance the incremental cost of these drugs and medicines.
Under the MPHW system, the Health Department would have exclusive responsi-
bility for the supply of drugs and medicine to supervisors and MPHWs. At
present, the BDO purchases such supplies on the basis of technical recommen-
dations from the physician in charge of the PHC. However, even with supplies
now ordered directly through the Health Department, serious shortages continue
to affect the health care system. Persistence of these difficulties would
hamper the effectiveness of MPHWs. For that reason, during the first project
year a study would be carried out to determine the reasons for these prob-
lems as well as to rationalize the choice of drugs based on epidemiological
prevalence of specific diseases in the area of coverage of HSCs and PHCs
and to identify corrective measures. Assurances were received during negotia-
tions that the study would be completed by June 30, 1981 under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and that the GOTN would furnish the report to
IDA for comment.
3.58      The component would finance a bus for each of the seven new training
institutions receiving project support and two for existing medical officers'
training centers, a station wagon for each of the 14 divisional health offices
in the project area and two for use by State Health headquarters. Also
financed would be a motorcycle and two bicycles for each project divisional
health office and PHC, as well as bicycle loans, recoverable over 18 months,
for the estimated 50% of all male and female MPHWs in project areas who would
take them up.
3.59      Managerial Arrangements - A Senior Deputy Director of Public Health
in the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Madras, would
have overall responsibility for the component. Assurances were received
during negotiations that a post of Deputy Director (Training) would be estab-
lished in the Directorate and filled by a suitable officer by August 31, 1980;
that official would have special responsibility for ensuring the appropriate-
ness and timeliness of project-financed training. A Divisional Health Officer



- 27 -
would be in charge of each of the 14 divisional health offices in the six
project districts, reporting both to the Collector concerned and to the Senior
Deputy Director of Public Health in Madras through the District Health Officer.
The staff of each divisional health office would include a PHN, a senior male
health inspector and support personnel. Each office would supervise an
average of 12 PHCs, 188 HSCs and their staff. The establishment of the
divisional health offices without incremental staff recruitment would be
possible through realignment of current managerial functions and transfer of
existing health personnel.
3.60      Management of the component would include operation of its monitor-
ing system. Information on participation rates, kinds of services offered
and utilization of supplies would flow monthly from HSCs for consolidation
at the PHC, where it would be combined with supervisors' information on
MPHW activities. As head of the MPHW team in that block, the responsible MO
would forward these materials to division headquarters along with reports on
monthly PHC activities, and actions planned and taken to correct problems in
the MPHW system. A similar process of consolidation and analysis would take
place at the divisional level. Those reports would go both to the Collector
and the Senior Deputy Director of Health in Madras, where a monthly report
along similar lines would be prepared for dissemination to those most directly
concerned with the project. The Senior Deputy Director and his support staff
would keep track of corrective actions planned or under way and would provide
guidance to Divisional Health Officers or other levels of the system as
necessary.
3.61      Coordination with Nutrition Delivery System - Although they work for
different Government departments, MPHWs and CNWs and their supervisors would
have to collaborate with one another effectively. CNWs would be expected to
organize communities for clinics to be held by MPHWs. MPHWs would be expected
promptly to examine, and, if necessary, refer for PHC scrutiny those children
failing to gain weight during supplementation or otherwise exhibiting disease
symptoms noted by the CNW. The MPHW would enroll eligible women for food
supplementation to be provided through the CNC. In village visits and other
work, the MPHW would be expected to reinforce nutrition education themes and
encourage families to take part in the child-weighing program. Equally
important, all family health records would be maintained at CNCs, thereby
encouraging both MPHWs and their supervisors to spend more time in villages.
The significance of these complementarities would be stressed during the
initial training of nutrition and health workers and this would be reinforced
by monthly inter-department meetings at the block level. Moreover, informal
contact between health workers and their nutrition counterparts would be
encouraged along with joint in-service training programs which either sponsor-
ing department could propose.
Nutrition and Health Communications
3.62      The central element of this component would be activities en-
couraging families to adopt a limited number of specific practices to improve
nutrition conditions of young children. These would include timely intro-
duction of semi-solid foods to supplement breast milk, feeding instead of
withholding food from the sick child, increasing the home food ration for



- 28 -
children under three years of age and home rehydration of children with
diarrhea. Such changes are considered feasible within existing family income
and food availability constraints for most participating families since,
according to TNNS findings, they could be accomplished by small shifts in
current intrafamily food distribution patterns. The component's approach to
nutrition education would differ from most previous efforts in Tamil Nadu by
concentrating on a few practical and specific actions and practices likely
to produce significant nutrition and health benefits for the target group.
Additionally, the nutrition education program would stress worker use of
emotional appeals and mobilization of group pressures for change rather than
the more customary emphasis on scientific argument.
3.63      The component also would:  (a) provide teaching materials for pre-
service and in-service training of project nutrition and health personnel;
(b) prepare communities and their leaders for the introduction of project
services through a combination of person-to-person contact and mass media
campaigns; and (c) encourage local participation in project activities such
as child weighing and supplementation, use of oral rehydration supplies,
compliance with deworming procedures and regular use of iron and vitamin A
supplements; and (d) motivate field staff through regular newsletters and
public recognition of outstanding performance.
3.64      Through these combined activities, the component would:  (a) improve
the quality of training of CNWs and MPHWs and their supervisors; (b) prepare
populations and community leaders for introduction of project activities;
(c) help maintain high morale and motivation among health and nutrition field
staff, thereby contributing to their improved performance; (d) increase the
probable effectiveness of nutrition and health field worker performance by
providing support media for their activities; (e) improve the pace of community
response to project activities, and (f) speed up the likely rate of nutrition
improvement by promoting self-help and at-home measures outside the direct
control of project staff, thereby improving the chances that nutritional
momentum generated by project activities will be maintained through the
family's own efforts.
3.65      In support of training activities, the component would finance
around 250 sets of film strips and 13,000 training manuals for use during
pre-service and in-service sessions. CNW training would include practical
communications training focusing mainly on developing expertise in using print
media, such as flip books and charts to be financed under the component.
Field staff also would learn how to develop self-made materials and during
training would produce at least one set of flash cards, food charts or other
similar materials. Each CNW would receive a project-financed field manual at
the close of training for use during home and other visits.
3.66      The component would finance films for use by officials in pre-
activity visits to prepare area leaders and villagers for introduction of
project nutrition services. The first visit to a project village would take
place around three months before the nutrition delivery component went into
local operation. Each supervisor would probably have to make an additional



- 29 -
two visits to each of the 15 villages for which she would be responsible.
These meetings would involve leaders of village councils and other organiza-
tions such as womens' groups. One meeting would be for the entire population
and would include a film show for selected project villages through projectors
already available to the Collector's office augmented by six others, including
generators, which the component would finance, to be used later for screenings
of other nutrition messages. During this period, an average of 10-15 women
leaders would be identified in each project village. Every six months they
would receive one day's orientation training from the CNW at the CNC. They
would be expected to support her efforts by ensuring that children are brought
for weighing regularly, that beneficiaries continue in the supplementation
program and that other forms of desirable participation also take place.
Efforts would be made for them to weigh children themselves or to supervise
weight-taking by mothers or other responsible family members.
3.67      Printed materials, including posters and other visual aids, would
be financed and disseminated to reinforce educational and motivational work
by CNWs. Among the topics would be: (a) explaining the project's selective
approach to food supplementation and entry and exit criteria; (b) encouraging
regular participation in weighing; (c) promotion of management of child
diarrhea through home-made oral rehydration therapy; (d) encouraging contin-
uation of breast-feeding and increased home feeding of children receiving
nutrition supplements, and (e) encouraging participation in vitamin A and
iron supplementations and deworming activities.
3.68      The component would finance about three major campaigns annually to
promote a few implementable nutrition and health practices affecting younger
children. The principal audiences would be women, particularly mothers and
their mothers-in-law, who are the key figures in early childrearing. However,
reinforcing messages also would be directed at husbands and older siblings,
because of their collateral roles in that regard. Each campaign would last
for about three months separated by a one-month interval for analysis of
monitoring data and design modifications resulting from it. Campaigns would
consist of 5-minute films to be shown in Tamil Nadu's extensive network of
rural movie houses, averaging four per project block; short radio programs;
newspaper and magazine advertisements; and on-the-ground efforts of nutrition
and health workers, reinforced by flip-books, charts, posters and self-made
materials. The component would finance the design, production and dissemina-
tion of all materials for these campaigns, including multiple copies of six
different films, 3,200 radio spot advertisements, 10,000 wall paintings and
50,000 posters.
3.69      Each campaign would focus on one important idea or change and is
expected to be repeated at least three times unless monitoring data suggest
otherwise. Among the topics already identified for probable campaign focus
are:
(a) the introduction of low-cost, locally available semi-
solid foods to the child from the age of four months,
with parallel continuation of breast-feeding;
(b) generally increasing the amount of food given to the
young child;



- 30 -
(c)  continued feeding rather than withholding food from
children with diarrhea and the use of home-made oral
rehydration mixes; and
(d)  improvement of environmental hygiene with emphasis on
control of common disease vectors such as flies.
Current plans call for a maximum of six campaign topics during the project.
3.70      Traditional folk theater as well as modern media would have a role
in this component. In recent years, one such form popular in rural areas,
Villu Pattu, has shifted from its original historic-heroic focus to more
contemporary themes. It has been used successfully to convey development
messages in such fields as agriculture and family planning. The project
would finance the identification of around 20 Villu Pattu troupes; develop-
ment of sample scripts for troupes to adapt; training to use these scripts,
through apprenticeship to a master troupe, and the cost of around 20 educa-
tional performances monthly by each troupe in project villages which, because
of poverty or isolation, have less access to films. On the basis of estimated
costs per target person reached, the efficiency of traditional folk theater
under these circumstances is comparable to that of rural cinema.
3.71      Managerial Arrangements - Because this component provides support
to both the Social Welfare and Health Departments, it would be managed through
the project coordination office. A Joint Coordinator for Communications
(JCC) would direct the component. The staff of the communications unit would
include an assistant communications officer, a news bulletin editor, an art
director, a monitoring officer, a media officer, a production officer, a
training officer, a photographer and support staff, most of whom would be
recruited specifically for the project. The unit also would post one District
Communication Officer (DCO) to each project district to coordinate field
activities as they began to phase in. Incremental salary costs of these
personnel would be financed by the component, along with around 10.5 person-
years of local consultants to provide technical assistance in mass and inter-
personal communication and other fields such as monitoring. Job descriptions
for all communications staff and terms of reference for all technical
assistance have been prepared for the component and are satisfactory to
IDA.
3.72      The communications unit would set up a technical working group
to provide ad hoc advice as needed on content or design or to solve special
problems in specialized fields not covered by staff or technical assistance.
It would consist of around six experts from both the public and private
sectors including a nutritionist, a pediatrician, an anthropologist, a
specialist in public health administration and the State Directors of Social
Welfare and Rural Development or their nominees. The JCC would convene
meetings and act as the Member-Secretary. Alternates also would be named for
all members to ensure availability on short notice. The component would
finance modest honoraria for remuneration of non-Government members of the
working group. Management, distribution and control systems to disseminate
communications materials as well as contracting procedures for each of the
media elements have been worked out.



- 31 -
3.73      Also financed by the component would be around one month of pre-
service communications training for the JCC; one staff car, a motorcycle and
three bicycles for the communications unit; one motorcycle for use by each of
the six DCOs; furniture and equipment for headquarters and district offices,
and the costs of small background studies on socio-cultural constraints to
changing food and health practices, media access and traditional media infra-
structure, which are of direct use for finalizing decisions on communication
strategy and message content.
3.74      Monitoring of the component by its management would focus on whether
messages get out as planned, reach the right people, are understood and
remembered by them and are found interesting and relevant. Regular feedback
from field staff on how well nutrition education and other activities seem
to be working, and how response develops to project activities would provide
useful qualitative indications of how the component is progressing. Limited
inquiries in regard to specific practices before and after each mass media
campaign would reveal trends and problems in the communications interventions.
Additionally, monthly health and nutrition reports consolidated at the district
level would provide DCOs and component management with necessary information
on the use of communications material disseminated under the component.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.75      This component would support the regular collection, interpretation
and appropriate dissemination of analytic information required by project and
component managers: (a) for timely and effective physical and financial
implementation; and (b) to determine the extent, pace and cost of progress
toward achieving project objectives.
3.76      Project monitoring and evaluation would cover seven areas:
1.   Input delivery (monitoring)
2.   Contact with the target group (monitoring)
3.   Input utilization (monitoring)
4.   Adoption of recommended behavior (monitoring and evaluation)
5.   Nutritional status changes (surveillance and evaluation)
6.   Health status changes (evaluation)
7.   Death rate changes (evaluation)
.     ~MONITORING  -   --.vei
Delieryj Cntat |Utilization  ReoinnainlStatsu    hags    Death Rate
t . EVALUATION
World Bank - 21073



- 32 -
3.77      Monitoring and evaluation would measure concurrently, at varying
levels of depth, the degree to which nutrition, health and communication
services are producing desired results.  If the delivery of inputs, messages
and services are satisfactory and if they are relevant, acceptable and accessi-
ble to the target population (measured by monitoring), positive effects on the
nutrition and health status of the beneficiaries should take place (measured
by evaluation). This underscores the fundamental continuity between both
kinds of activities.
3.78      Component monitoring would be undertaken by the executing agencies
concerned. A list of what type of component data would be collected, at what
intervals, by whom, and by what method would be worked out between the manage-
ment of each component and the monitoring division of the project coordination
office, which would have overall responsibility for project monitoring.
3.79      Project monitoring would draw upon data regularly generated by
executing agencies. This flow of information would be supplemented by on-the-
spot field checks as well as a total of around 15 special monitoring surveys
during the project. Those would include studies on drop-outs from the food
supplement program, degree of supplement substitution for food consumed at
home, changing patterns of intra-family food distribution, media penetration
and the reliability of data generated by the nutrition and health delivery
systems. Also included would be studies in the first, third and fifth
project years of the efficacy of nutrition and health training, and costs per
person reached and per service rendered. Annual surveys of leakages in the
supplementary food distribution system also would take place through project
monitoring.
3.80      Based on data from each component, the monitoring division would
prepare consolidated monthly reports on project progress and would make these
available to component and project management. These would include status
reports on corrective measures previously undertaken or identified for each
component. The monitoring group also would prepare quarterly and annual
reports on project progress. Both would contain comparative information on
progress to date against scheduled targets and progress during the reporting
period. Using data generated by the monitoring division, the project communi-
cations unit would prepare summaries of these reports for distribution to
project field personnel.
3.81      Additionally, during the first project year, a detailed monitoring
study to refine the mix of project activities as necessary would be carried
out in Kottampatti Block, where the project first would be implemented. The
Kottampatti study would test:
(a) the acceptability and shelf-life of the food supplement
under field conditions and verify the number of feeding-
days required to bring malnourished children back to
normal growth;
(b) the practicality and effectiveness of criteria and pro-
cedures for selection of children and pregnant and
lactating women to be enrolled in the feeding program;



- 33 -
(c) the adequacy of the curricula proposed for various
categories of nutrition and health trainees, and
the feasibility and appropriateness of the staff
workload, targets and schedules as presently conceived;
(d) coordination arrangements proposed for the health and
nutrition staff at various levels;
(e) the proposed monitoring and supervision systems, confirm
minimum information requirements, and identify priority
areas for further in-depth studies;
(f) the accessibility and acceptability of project facilities
and services; measure the initial utilization and
participation rates; determine who actually benefits
from the services rendered and analyze determinants of
relapse, dropping-out, absenteeism and non-participation;
(g) teaching materials to be used in communication activities;
(h) technical aspects of the program, including methods
for providing oral rehydration therapy for diarrhea,
maintenance of the cold chain for vaccines, use of the
growth chart, suitability of scales, use of anemia
recognition card;
(i) logistical channels for the supply of inputs such as
drugs and the most appropriate frequency and methods
of re-supply; and
(J) aspects of the proposed evaluation system, including
training of field investigators, pre-testing of survey
instruments, and communications survey methods.
Evaluation staff would be posted in the field to facilitate collection and
analysis of Kottampatti data.
3.82      The nutrition surveillance system would provide project management
with a monthly account of the numbers and percentages of children weighed,
children not gaining adequate weight and children in the feeding program.
These key indicators would reveal the project's changing coverage over time,
show the monthly variations in nutritional status, and indicate trends in
feeding program participation of children with faltering growth. They would
provide timely identification of villages, blocks, and districts which may
require special attention because of continuing or emerging nutrition problems.
Complementing this surveillance system would be another information-generating
scheme operating in control districts outside the project. A sample of
randomly selected children would be weighed each month using anthropometric
criteria. Measurements would be done by specially recruited investigators
who would report directly to project headquarters in Madras. This scheme



- 34 -
would provide sensitive early warning information on creeping and acute nutri-
tional deterioration elsewhere in the state, and also would enable project
authorities to isolate favorable effects attributable to project actions.
3.83      Evaluation of the impact of the project would concentrate on changes
in levels of malnutrition, morbidity and mortality among target groups in
project areas compared to changes elsewhere in Tamil Nadu. This will be
accomplished principally through baseline and annual re-surveys in project
districts and certain other areas which would serve as controls. Sampling
would take place for a total of around 14,000 households during the project
period. The initial baseline survey would get under way six months before the
implementation of project activities in each district. Data collection and
analysis would take about six months. Other evaluation topics would include
efforts to determine changes in intra-family food distribution habits after the
introduction of project nutrition activities and an assessment of the feasi-
bility of making the food supplement available through fair-price shops and
other commercial channels. Additional studies would seek to relate the costs
and impact of project activities to other programs in Tamil Nadu aimed at
similar target groups.
3.84      A major study of project achievements and their costs would take
place in the year following the last year of project implementation. The
study would include a sectoral review of Tamil Nadu's nutrition and rural
health policies and programs, experience with the State's various modes of
delivering nutrition and health services at the community level and their
impact and managerial and budgetary implications; IDA would receive a copy of
the report. Assurances were received during negotiations that terms of
reference for this study would be satisfactory to IDA.
3.85      Evaluation would be carried out by a group under the overall
supervision and technical guidance of the Director of Evaluation and Applied
Research in the Finance Department. The Evaluation Division would be headed
by a special officer with the rank of Joint Director. Three sections
would report to him: evaluation and surveillance, special studies and
administration.
3.86      The evaluation and surveillance section and the special studies
section each would be staffed by a Deputy Director, one research officer
and two research assistants. The special studies section also would recruit
graduate students to be stationed for longer periods of time in selected
villages as participant observers. A specialized staff consisting of a
nutrition expert, a statistician, a social anthropologist, and a health
specialist/epidemiologist would be available for consultation with both
sections; they would work under the direct control of the head of special
studies. In addition, a total of about 110 field investigator-years would be
required to carry out the sample surveys as well as to contribute to data
collection for the special studies. The administrative support section, which
handles payments and logistical matters, would be headed by a research officer
who would also undertake work in the evaluation and surveillance section. The



- 35 -
non-technical support staff would include one junior accounts officer, one
superintendent, two assistants, two junior assistants, one record clerk and
four steno-typists.
3.87      A field unit would be established in each project district as the
main arm for data collection. Each unit would be headed by a research officer
supported by junior research assistants and investigators, whose number would
vary somewhat between districts depending upon the number of sample households
to be covered. To ensure both objectivity and widest possible application of
findings from the project, an Advisory Panel on Evaluation would be set up
consisting of representatives of the State Government, the GOI and appropriate
research institutions. The panel would be established by December 31, 1980
and would continue through the project period. The panel chairman would be
the State Director of Evaluation. The head of the Project Evaluation Division
would be its Member-Secretary. Assurances were received during negotiations
that such a panel would be set up and would meet as necessary throughout the
project period to review and comment on the evaluation of the project.
3.88      The component would finance the costs of monitoring and evaluation
studies; furniture and equipment for the evaluation office and its field units;
one four-wheel drive motor vehicle, one motorcycle and three bicycles for the
evaluation office; one motorcycle and four bicycles for each of the seven field
units, and incremental operating costs for the component including the salaries
of agreed staff.
Project Coordination Office
3.89      A small office to coordinate the project was set up in the State
Secretariat prior to negotiations. Its professional staff already consists of
a Project Coordinator and the Joint Coordinator for Communications; others to
be assigned would include a monitoring officer, a senior accounts officer, an
administrative officer, and two computer programmers. The Project Coordinator
reports to the Secretary of the Social Welfare Department, who is the Chief
Project Coordinator. However, the Project Coordinator also is a member and
secretary of an interdepartmental project oversight committee, chaired by the
Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, whose other members include the Secretaries of
Social Welfare, Health, Agriculture, Rural Development and the heads of other
interested government agencies.
3.90      The Project Coordination Office would review annual and quarterly
budgets and work programs from each project district and executing agency
to ensure their consistency with project schedules and operational criteria.
It also would review proposed annual project budget submissions from these
two sources, identify differences between such proposals and approved project
implementation schedules and annual financing plans, seek to reconcile these
with the agencies concerned and report on the outcome to the high-level com-
mittee. Remaining issues would be resolved there and the results communicated
back to component managers through the coordination office. Final proposed
annual budgets for each component would be forwarded to the Finance Department
by the coordination office for inclusion in the annual state budget.



- 36 -
3.91      The coordination office would review monthly monitoring reports
from each project district in respect to each component and prepare consoli-
dated summaries. It also would keep track of corrective actions proposed
or under way in each component and carry out extensive field observation of
project activities to verify the accuracy of such reports. Additionally,
the Project Coordinator would be in frequent contact with District Collectors
in regard to the pace and quality of project implementation. To facilitate
data management, interpretation and analysis, the project's evaluation unit
would be located in the Project Coordination Office, although it would remain
under the administrative control of the Finance Department.
3.92      The coordination office also would operate a US$500,000 equivalent
management fund to support innovative activities relating to project objec-
tives which implementing agencies would propose from time to time. Approval
of the high-level project committee would be required for such expenditures;
assurances were received during negotiations that advance IDA approval would
be obtained for expenditures of US$50,000 or more from the project management
fund.
3.93      For the coordination office the project would finance three vehicles;
furniture and equipment, including a desk computer; staff salaries and other
incremental operating costs; and the project management fund.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDIT
A. Costs and Financing
4.01      The total estimated project cost is US$66.4 million equivalent
for five years of project operation and evaluation in the sixth year. Total
project costs may be broken down into base costs of US$49.7 million equivalent
and contingencies of US$16.7 million equivalent. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is estimated at US$8.7 million, 13% of total project costs. Costs of
civil works, vehicles, furniture and equipment account for US$15.5 million,
or 33% of base costs. Food costs are US$6.0 million, 13% of base costs.
Training costs account for US$2.8, 6% of base costs. Technical assistance
and mass media contracts total US$2.4 million, 5% of base costs. Incremental
operating costs total US$19.6 million, or 42% of base costs. Duties and taxes
are estimated at US$1.9 million. All costs are based on calculations at the
time of appraisal. Salary costs are based on standard Government pay and
allowances scales in effect at that time. Local technical assistance cost
estimates are based on prevailing rates for such services. Table 1 summarizes
cost estimates by expenditure category. Table 2 provides cost estimates by
component.



- 37 -
nDKIA:  TAM.rL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT            -             Table  1
Project roSc Estimates by Expenditure Category
(In Rs 'eoo)                 (ln USS 't000)                     2               I of
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total                  FE           Base Costs
A.  Civil Works               52,985    22,708  75,693        6,308      2,703   9,011                30                19
D.  Vehicles, Equipment       39,959    14,462  54,421        4,757      1,722   6,479       -        -                 14
and Furniture
1.  Vehicles               8,665      2,888  11,553      1.031         344   1,375                25                 3
2.  Equipment and         31,294    1.1,574  42,868      3,725      1,378   5,103                 27                11
PUrniture
C.  Training                   23,670       -      23,670      2,818       --     2,818                -                  6
D.  Contract Services          18,998       -      18,998      2,262       -      2,262                -                  5
1.  Coruunications         17,558       -     17,558      2,090       -       2.090                -
2. Ivaluation               1,440       -       1,440        172      -         172                -
r.  Technical Assistance        1,522       -       1,522        181       -      -                    -
P.  Food Supplements           50,747       -      50,747      6,041       -      6,041                -                 13
C.  Project M.anagement Fund   4,200        -       4,200        500       -        500
IL  Incremental Operating Costs
1.  DJrugs and Supplies   33,977    11,326  45,303        4,045      1,348   5,393                 25               12
2.  Salaries and           96,386       -     96,386    11,475        -      11,475                                 24
-           Allovances
3.  Veh. op. Costs          3,033      2,108   5,141        361        251      612                41                1
4.  Other Op. Costs        17,705       --    17.705      2,1         --      2,108                                  5
Subtotal             151,101    13.434 164,535    17,989         1599  19,587                                   42
"  aase Costs     343,182    50,604 393,786    40,855         6,024  46,879                12.9             100
Contingencies
Physical                                      23,828                          2,837                                  6.1
Price                                        L40.158                         16,685                                 35.5
Subtotal Con.inzencies                   163,986                        19,522
TOTAL                 557,772                         66,401
INDIA:  TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT                          Table  2
Project Cost Estimates by Comoonent
(in '000)
Rutees                                    us __   'S5$ 5             Foreign     2 Base
Local       Foreign       Total         Lccal       Foreign       Total      Excbanee       C"st
Yutrition Delivery Services    172,764        11,662       184,426        20,567        1,389       21,956         6.3          46.8
Rural Health Services            130,295       38,076      168,371        15,511        4,533       20,044        22.6          42.8
Nutrition Coamunicactins          23,950          325       24,275         2,851           39        2,890         1.3            6.2
Monitoring and Evaluation           8,159         171         8,330          971           20          991         2.0            2.1
t Iect Coordination                8,014          370         8,384          954           44          998         4.4            2.1
base Costs                       343,182      50,604       393,786       40,854         6,025       46,879        12.8         100.0
Physical Contingencies            19,267       4 L561       23  828        2.294          542        2,837                        6.1
SUB-TOTAL                        362,449      55,165       417,614       43,149         6,567       49,716
Price Continsencies              122,17       17,94             158       14.550        2,135       16,685                       35.6
TO'AL PROJECT COSTS              484,666      73,106       557772         57,699        8,702       66,401



- 38 -
4.02      The foreign exchange component of base costs is estimated at 30%
for civil works, at 27% for equipment and furniture and at 25% for vehicles,
materials, drugs and supplies. Physical contingencies were calculated at
10% against estimated base costs of civil works, furniture and equipment.
A similar allowance has been made for drugs and supplies, training, and food
supplements because of possible variations in the numbers of beneficiaries
involved. Price contingencies averaging 33.6% of base costs and physical
contingencies were calculated on the basis of anticipated expenditure schedules
and expected price increases from the end of appraisal currently estimated at
10% in 1981, 7% per year 1981-83 and 5% in 1984 and thereafter.
4.03      Recurring State expenditures for nutrition are about US$8.8 million
1979-80, and for health, about US$82 million. These represent around 0.9%
and 8% respectively, of the State's estimated 1979-80 revenues of US$1,011
million. By 1995, conservatively assuming continued 3% annual budget growth
in real terms (although such State expenditures have been rising at around
4.3% yearly), State revenues would run around US$1,622 million. Using 1995
population projections, the state-wide recurring costs in real terms of the
project's nutrition services for both rural and urban areas would be US$28
million at present malnourishment levels, which are, however, expected to fall
significantly, and ignoring savings to the State budget as communities begin
to absorb a share of CNC-CNW costs. Assuming that other nutrition programs
remained constant, although it is expected that existing pre-school activities
would be absorbed into the CNC-CNW system, total State spending on nutrition
in 1995 would run around US$37 million in real terms, or around 2.3% of annual
state revenues anticipated at that time. Incremental recurring costs of
state-wide health coverage under the MPHW system would be around US$15.7
million in 1995 in real terms. State health expenditures in that year would
rise to around US$127 million in real terms if other health costs kept pace
with population growth and would account for around 8% of total state revenues
projected for 1995.
4.04      An IDA credit of US$32 million would finance 50% of total project
costs net of duties and taxes. The GOTN would finance the balance. Retro-
active financing of up to US$300,000 would be provided for expenditures from
September 1, 1979, for baseline studies, development of nutrition and health
workers' training curricula and training of communications and other personnel
needed to get the project under way according to schedule.
B. Procurement
4.05      Civil works contracts (US$9.0 million) would be small and dispersed
both geographically and over time, which would not be suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding. They would be awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding through standard GOTN procedures, which are acceptable to IDA.
4.06      An estimated 102 sedans and station wagons, 9 buses and 212 motor-
cycles (US$1.1 million) would be procured under the project. They would be
purchased mainly in small quantities over five years and dispersed principally



- 39 -
in rural areas. Maintenance facilities and ready availability of spare parts
would be essential, requiring purchase of types of locally made vehicles
already used by Government departments. Vehicle procurement thus would be
by local competitive bidding under existing GOTN procedures which are satis-
factory. Bicycles (US$0.3 million) would be purchased mainly by individual
staff from loan funds provided by the GOTN; the purchase price would be
recovered over 18 months from each buyer.
4.07      Orders for drugs, furniture, equipment and supplies (US$10.5 million)
would be bulked whenever possible and purchased according to established local
competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000,
when they would be procured through prudent local shopping. Drugs to be
procured would include arrowroot powder and glucose-electrolytes (US$0.9
million), which would not attract foreign bidders. Other drugs and medications
(aggregating US$3.3 million) would be of disparate types and procured over
time due to limited shelf life of some items. They would represent an incre-
ment of less than 15% over drugs now procured by the State under established
procedures which are satisfactory, ensure equitable, reasonable prices, and
are provided through local manufacturers which include a number operating in
collaboration with foreign companies from IDA countries. Contracts for media
production, data processing of evaluation studies and technical assistance
(US$2.4 million) also would be procured through prudent local shopping because
the specialized nature of services to be provided makes competitive bidding
unsuitable for those purposes. All the above costs exclude contingencies.
All proposed tender documents for civil works, vehicles, drugs, equipment,
furniture and supplies, estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, would be
reviewed by IDA before bids are invited. All proposed contracts estimated to
cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be furnished for review by IDA before
signing and, when based on local competitive bidding, would be accompanied by
a copy of the relevant bid evaluation. Signed copies of other contracts also
would be furnished to IDA along with copies of the relevant bid evaluations,
where competitive procurement is involved.
C. Disbursements
4.08      Disbursements would be made for 80% of the costs of civil works,
vehicles, equipment, furniture, training, contract services, technical assis-
tance, drugs, supplies and the project management fund.
4.09      Disbursements expenditures for civil works payments not exceeding
Rs 300,000, for payments for vehicles, equipment, contract services, drugs
and supplies not exceeding Rs 150,000 and for training would be made on the
basis of certificates of expenditure. The State Government would retain
relevant documentation for inspection in the course of project review missions.
Disbursement against all other items would be made against evidence of receipt
of and payment for civil works, goods and services.



- 40 -
D. Accounts and Audits
4.10      The Government would maintain separate accounts for expenditures
made under the project. These would be audited annually for each fiscal
year in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied. Such
audit reports would be furnished to the Association within nine months after
the close of a fiscal year. Certificates of expenditure would be audited
internally at least once every six months and audit reports furnished to IDA.
Those reports would show, inter alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for
the purposes intended, the goods had been received, work performed and that
payments had been made.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Overall Coordination
5.01      At the state level, an inter-departmental committee chaired by
the Chief Secretary of the State, would meet quarterly to review project
progress and decide on desirable budgetary and implementation adjustments.
The Project Coordination Office, headed by the Project Coordinator, (paras.
3.89-3.93) would serve as Secretariat to the committee. Other members of
that high-level committee would include the Secretaries of Finance, Social
Welfare, Health, Rural Development, Agriculture and the managing directors
of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) and the Tamil Nadu
Agro-Engineering Cooperative Federation. Wihile the latter agencies are not
directly involved in project implementation, their participation in the
committee is important because of recognized linkages between nutrition and
their areas of responsibility. Moreover, the Government intends to provide
improved water supplies on a priority basis to the estimated 30% of habitations
in project areas where no public or protected source is available within one
kilometer. Inclusion of a TWAD member on the high-level committee would help
ensure coordination of that program with project activities.
5.02      Inter-agency coordination at other levels would take place through
district and block project committees. The district committee would be chaired
by the Collector. Its membership would include the District Assistant Director
of Social Welfare, the District Health Officer and the District Assistant
Director of Rural Development. District committees would meet monthly to
monitor project progress and resolve difficulties arising at that level.
5.03      At the block level, the DDO would chair a monthly meeting of the
nutrition instructresses, the MO, the BDO, the TNO and the concerned divi-
sional health officer. These meetings would provide a forum for identifica-
tion and resolution of local problems and for suggested improvements in the
conduct and content of the program, which would be forwarded to the high-level
committee and respective implementing agencies in Madras through the Collectors.
Notices and minutes of meetings would be copied to Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment and TWAD staff and their presence requested when items of mutual interest



- 41 
are on the agenda. The Collector would meet regularly with these committees
while on tour and at least twice yearly with DDOs for the express purpose of
discussing progress and direction of the nutrition project.
B. Programming and Budgeting
5.04      Block and district committees would collaborate on the formulation
of quarterly project work programs under the currently approved budget and
development of annual program proposals for the coming financial year. The
project coordination office would review these proposals, reconcile them with
annual project cost estimates and approved or requested departmental budgets
and work programs and recommend suitable action by the high-level committee.
The project coordinator would notify both district committees and executing
agencies of decisions by the committee, and would forward approved proposals
for the next fiscal year to the Finance Department for incorporation in the
annual budget. After budget approval, the project coordinator would advise
concerned departments and district collectors of details of programs and
operations approved for the next fiscal year. Notification of approved work
programs and budgets would be made at least 60 days before the start of the
following quarter. The flow of funds would follow established Government
procedures.
C. Project Execution
5.05      Existing Government agencies would carry out project activities
as indicated below:
Agency                                       Activity
Directorate of Public Health,                Health Services Operation,
Department of Health and Family Welfare    Management, Monitoring
Directorate of Social Welfare,               Nutrition Services Operation,
Department of Social Welfare                 Management, Monitoring
Bureau of Evaluation and                     Project Evaluation
Applied Research, Department
of Finance
Tamil Nadu Agro-Industries                   Food Supplement Production
Corporation
Highways and Rural Works Department          Civil Works
Public Works Department                     Civil Works
Project Coordination Office,                 Project Coordination,
Department of Social Welfare                 Communications, Monitoring



- 42 -
5.06      Annex 5 provides an implementation schedule of key project activi-
ties. Annex 6 provides simplified organizational charts for each component.
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Justification
6.01      The nutrition component, at 80% coverage of eligible children, which
the project is expected to reach, would provide nutrition protection for an
estimated 780,000 children under three years of age, including 470,000 cur-
rently deemed to be actively malnourished. It would also provide selective
food supplementation for about 275,000 pregnant and lactating women. The
health component, at 75% coverage of the project population, which is a
realistic four-year goal, would improve the availability and quality of
basic services to an estimated ten million persons, including an estimated
950,000 families and an estimated additional 1.25 million women and their
children who are not now adequately served by the system. Although the
project's specific objectives concern women and children, improved quality and
reach of health services is likely also to improve overall health conditions
of the labor force in project areas. Resulting morbidity reductions would
increase the number of work days available per adult beneficiary, including
during times of peak demand for agricultural labor. Through combined nutri-
tion, health and communications interventions, the project would contribute
to increased young child survival rates and would help such beneficiaries to
reach full genetic potential, raising many to higher levels of educability and
potential performance, enhancing the rate of return of Government investments
in education, and providing a more favorable climate for acceptance of family
planning.
6.02      These changes would help improve the quality of rural life; while
nutrition is only one organizing principle for such efforts, the project
offers an important opportunity to do so at district and local levels.
Through its combined services, the project also would provide a focused and
effective alternative to long-term feeding programs which now characterize
the state's pre-school nutrition efforts and reach only a small proportion
of those at greatest risk. Rationalizing the structure of direct nutrition
intervention would help the state realign its other nutrition programs and
improve their reach and effectiveness.
6.03      The program supported by the Project would require considerably
less food supplement than the existing feeding programs. Under the Project,
children 6 to 36 months would receive an average of about 110 days' supple-
mentation, including allowance for relapse. Under existing programs, such
children would receive supplementation for 300 days yearly for the full
2-1/2 years. Thus, considerably larger populations could be covered with
a given volume of food supplement under the program supported by the Project.



- 43 -
6.04      The proposed project would reduce malnutrition through the stage
of infant and young child development (where current evidence suggests that
its effects are most harmful for human development) and would reduce peri-
natal, infant and child mortality. In quantitative terms, our expectation is
that the program would: (a) reverse or avert around 570,000 cases of moderate
to severe malnutrition among children under three years of age and (b) reduce
the mortality rate among infants and pre-schoolers by some 25%, resulting
in (short run) increases in five-year-olds entering the school-age cohort
of about 37,000 per year. The per capita cost of achieving improved nutri-
tional status through the nutrition delivery component, averaged over 570,000
direct child beneficiaries of the food supplement program (around 80% of those
taking part), would be about Rs 220. These costs are incurred primarily in
the pre-birth and infant stages when the mother and child feeding programs are
utilized.
6.05      The potential economic benefits depend largely on the impact of
improved nutritional and health status (as realized during this early child-
hood state) on productivity and earnings in adult life. In the present state
of the art, estimates of such benefits are necessarily highly speculative. It
is, of course, well known in a general sense that children whose early nutri-
tional status is satisfactory tend to be substantially more productive and
have higher earnings capacity in later life. What is difficult, however,
is to separate out the specific "nutritional factor" associated with this
difference from a host of other factors that tend to be highly correlated with
nutrition status in early life--parental incomes, education, and position in
society being some of the leading ones.
6.06      What can be demonstrated, however, is that the economic benefits,
in terms of enhanced adult productivity and earnings, need not be very large
to provide a healthy economic justification for the proposed nutrition delivery
program. A conservative estimate for the present value of the prospective
lifetime earnings of an Indian agricultural laborer, discounted at 10%, is
some Rs 4,500. 1/ On the assumption that about 47% of the beneficiaries
from the nutrition program would be full-time agricultural laborers at any
one time during the forward period, 2/ the per capita present "value" of a
1% increase in productivity resulting from improved nutritional status during
the formative childhood period would be some Rs 21. The present value of the
estimated cost of nutrition services is Rs 187 per capita (the estimate of
nutrition costs given above, after discounting). To earn 10% on the invest-
ment in improved nutrition status, therefore, requires an increase in adult
productivity of less than 9% among fewer than half of those children who
receive nutrition services through the project.
1/   The calculation is based on an annual earnings stream of Rs 1300 (260
working days at Rs 5 per day) and an earnings span of some 42 years,
from age 12 to age 55.
2/   Assuming that about 10% of the 5-year old cohort will die before real-
izing the earning span and that, on average, about 85% of the women are
not employed as paid workers (versus about 10% of the men).



- 44 -
6.07      The required increase in productivity, while in itself reasonable,
would be still less with: (a) a less restrictive assumption about prospec-
tive earnings, since the one above is equivalent to arguing for zero real
increases in agricultural wages over the next 60 years and that all prospec-
tive workers become agricultural laborers, typically among the lowest earning
groups in Indian society; and (b) the addition of a reasonable valuation of
work done by those outside the formal employment sector, in particular the
value of work done by women in the home, and an expectation that earnings
prospects for women also will improve over the next 60 years.
6.08      The economic value of reduced child mortality would constitute
an additional benefit from the project's nutrition and health services.
Among other things the scale of this benefit would depend importantly on
the ultimate impact on desired and achieved family size among the households
affected by reduced child mortality. Thus, if reduced mortality brings
forward in time attainment of desired family size--and there is some plausi-
bility in this argument based on recent demographic studies--the impact is
largely to advance the realization of the future income streams of the current
generation of children who die in infancy and are replaced by others, but on
average some four years later. In that case, the income stream of the survivor
is realized rather than that of his/her "replacement," and is realized, on
average, four years earlier. Using the agricultural laborer income stream as
described above, such a four-year advancement would be "worth" Rs 1,400 in
terms of present value. Assuming that 60% of the 37,000 whose deaths are
averted by the project become full-time workers, this element alone would pay
for more than half the recurring costs of the health components
B. Risks
6.09      The project faces the fundamental risk that the determinants of
malnutrition may be so complex that even effective implementation of the
project as designed would not produce the anticipated results. However, the
project has been designed on the basis of extensive research in Tamil Nadu and
elsewhere, takes into account the most relevant experience available, and, if
properly implemented, is expected to have pronounced effect. With respect to
actual implementation, as opposed to design, the project faces five basic
risks as outlined below.
6.10      The first is the usual risk of pioneering efforts associated with
major training programs and the installation of new systems: possible
problems with quality control and adherence to implementation schedules.
A second risk is that CNWs may find it difficult to apply project criteria
for the food supplement program. However, both of the above risks are reduced
by the extensive performance monitoring built into the project, particularly
through detailed reviews of the Kottampatti Block experience and again after
another 69 blocks have become operational. The risk of distortion of the
food program is further reduced because entry and exit are controlled by the
supervisor.



- 45 -
6.11      A third such risk is that participation in the food supplement pro-
gram would be less than expected because of the relatively modest size of
the daily ration, its limited duration and difficulties in reaching the most
disadvantaged. This risk is offset by the intensive surveillance, monitoring
and nutrition education efforts designed to promote and sustain participation
by eligible beneficiaries. Additionally, flexibility is built into the
system in regard to both entry and discharge criteria and adjusting ration
sizes as appropriate.
6.12      A further risk is that maintenance of separate administrative
controls for nutrition and health delivery might hamper both project manage-
ment and the emergence of an optimal package of village health and nutrition
services. However, this risk is offset both by training and supervision
arrangements which stress field coordination between the departments concerned
and the willingness of the State to continue to address the organizational
question through project reviews and evaluation.
6.13      Additionally, positive changes in intrafamily food distribution and
family food habits may occur later or to a lesser extent than anticipated.
In that case, more children would relapse than expected, the costs of food
supplementation would rise and fewer beneficiaries would retain nutrition
momentum during their later pre-school years. However, even in that event,
the project would have made a significant contribution in helping the Govern-
ment achieve its goal of substantially reducing mortality rates of younger
pre-school children and in boosting their nutrition during the most critical
years.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were obtained from the State
Government that:
(a) reviews of project operations would take place after a year's
operation in Kottampatti Block and after about 70 blocks had
become operational but no later than the end of the third
project year, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
and that the project design and implementation schedule
would be adjusted according to review findings as feasible,
taking into account IDA comments on the reviews (para 3.07);
(b) the above reviews would take account of: (1) the current
evaluation of mobile redical teams in Tamil Nadu carried
out by the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare
and (2) the results of other pilot projects and studies of
ways to introduce community health and nutrition services
in the State (para. 3.44);



- 46 -
(c) curricula for the training of staff under the project would
be prepared and furnished to IDA for its comments and that such
training would be carried out in accordance with these curricula,
taking into account IDA comments;
(d) criteria for entry into and discharge from the food supplement
program for children and women would be satisfactory to IDA
(para. 3.34);
(e) should the State modify its health system in project areas
during the project, after consultation with IDA, Tamil Nadu
would take all necessary measures to maintain the efficiency,
quality and level of nutrition and health services and ensure
appropriate use of CNWs to avoid duplication of effort
(para. 3.44);
(f) a study to identify ways of improving procurement, delivery and
choice of drugs and medicines to PHCs and HSCs would be carried
out under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30,
1981 and that the report would be furnished to IDA for comment
(para. 3.57);
(g) the post of Deputy Director (Training) would be established in
the Directorate of Public Health with special responsibility
for assuring appropriateness and timeliness of project-financed
trai.ing, and a buitable officer appointed thereto, by August 31,
1980 (para. 3.59);
(h) an evaluation study of project achievements and their costs
would be carried out in the year following the last year of
project implementation, including a sectoral review of Tamil
Nadu's nutrition and rural health policies and programs,
experience with the State's various modes of delivering nutri-
tion and health services at the community level, and their
impact and managerial and budgetary implications, in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.84);
(i) an Advisory Panel on Evaluation consisting of representatives
of the State Government, the GOI and appropriate research
institutions, would be set up by December 31, 1980 and meet as
necessary throughout the project period to review and comment
on evaluation of the project (para. 3.87); and
(j) advance IDA approval would be obtained for any expenditures of
US$50,000 or more from the project management fund (para. 3.92).
7.02      Subject to the above assurances, the project is recommended for an
IDA credit of US$32 million to the Government of India on standard terms.



INDIA; TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Estimated Base Costs by Component and Expenditure Category (Rs '000)
Nutrition                        Communi-          Monitoring         Coordi-
Delivery         Health         cations         and Evaluation      nation          Total
A.  Civil Works                              5,285           70,408            --                 --               --          75,693
B..  Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture    26,640             25,654             654                425            1,048        54,421
1.  Vehicles                             5,044            5,956            141                 256              156        11,553
2.  Equipment and Furniture            21,596            19,698            513                 169              892        42,868
C.  Training                                 8,065           12,300          2,496                 809             --          23,670
D.  Contract Services                         --               --           17,558               1,440             --          18,998
E.  Technical. Assistance                       80             --            1,227                 215             --           1,522
F.  Food Supplements                        50,747             --             --                  --               --          50,747
G.  Project Management Fund                   --               --              --                 --               4,200        4,200
H. Incremental Operating Costs
1.  Drugs and Supplies                  4,782             39,847           475                 147                52       45,303
2.  Salaries and Allowances            69,429             18,684         1,138               5,013             2,122       96,386
3.  Vehicle Operation                   4,365                451             79                 59               187        5,141
4.  Other Operating Costs               15,033             1,027           648                 222               775       17,705
Subtotal                               93,609             60,009         2,340               5,441             3,136     164,535
TOTAL BASE COSTS                184,426            168,371        24,275               8,330            8,384      393,786
TOTAL BASE COSTS (US$ '000)   (21,956)             (20,044)       (2,890)               (991)            (998)     (46,879)



INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Estimate of Yearly Base Cost Expenditure by Category
(Rs 1,000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5      Year 6                 Total
A.  Civil Works                            20,798     12,359      10,994      15,642      15,900                           75,693
B.  Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
1.  Vehicles                            3,298      2,148       2,193       2,758      1,156                            11,553
2.  Equipment and Furniture            9,976       8,107       9,030      10,984      4,771                            42,868
Subtotal                               13,274     10,255      11,223      13,742      5,927                            54,421
C.  Training                                4,329      4,332       5,814       6,048       3,147                           23,670
D.  Contract Services
1.  Communications                     1,257       2,989       3,727       5,355      4,230                            17,558
2.  Evaluation                            140        200         250         200        250         400                   440
Subtotal                               1,397       3,189       3,977       5,555      4,480         400                18.998
E.  Technical Assistance                      182         190        269         381         500                            1,522
F.  Food Supplements                          122      4,173       8,699      15,091     22,662                            50,747
C.  Project Management Fund                   210         630      1,050       1,050       1,260                            4,200
11. Incremental Operating Costs
1.  Drugs & Supplies                   1,705       5,233       8,333     12,557      17,475                           45,303
2.  Salaries & Allowances               2,847      9,646      17,286     26,944      39,014         649               96,386
3. Vehicle Operating Costs                140        510         976      1,442       2,068           5                 5,141
4.  Other Operating Costs                 420      1,736       3,290       5,034      7,199          26                17,705
Subtotal                               5,112      17,125      29,885     45,977      65,756         680              164,535
TOTAL                                 45,424      52,253      71,911    103,486    119,632        1,080               393,786



1
- 49 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF CREDIT
Percentage of
Amount of the Credit      Expenditure to
Category                       Allocated (US$ '000)       Be Financed
1.  Civil Works                               10,600                   80%
2. Vehicles, Furniture, Equipment              7,500                   80%
3.  Training Costs, Contract Services          5,900                   80%
and Technical Assistance
4.  Project Management Fund                      500                   80%
5.  Drugs and Supplies                         6,300                   80%
6.  Unallocated                                1,200
T  0  T  A  L                32,000



-50-                            ANNEX 4
INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Financing
Amount            Cumulative
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                                  500                  500
December 31, 1980                                    700               1,200
March 31, 1981                                       800               2,000
June 30, 1981                                        900               2,900
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                                  900                3,800
December 31, 1981                                   950                4,750
March 31, 1982                                       975               5,725
June 30, 1982                                     1,075                6,800
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                                1,100                7,900
December 31, 1982                                 1,250                9,150
Miarch 31, 1983                                   1,550               10,700
June 30, 1983                                     1,750               12,450
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                                1,900               14,350
December  31, 1983                                2,000               16,350
March 31, 1984                                    2,200               18,550
June 30, 1984                                     2,400               20,950
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                                2,550               23,500
December  31, 1984                                2,700               26,200
March 31, 1985                                    2,850               29,050
June 30, 1985                                     2,950               32,000



-51 
AXNEX 5
F,~~~~~~cilit(uunievrySo  ie
stu     lc     'utritice office
* aet up taluk nutrition offices                                 r
* procure ar.d supply velhicles
furnishings, supplies and equipment_K
as appropriate to:                                                                I
- CNCa                                                                       ____
- Block nutritIcn offices 
- Taluk niutrition o"fices                                                     r
- District nutrition uffices                                                   I
- State headquarters
set up food supplement plants
- deject anki acquire aitas                                                                                   Om I
- construct buildings
-rouead irstall equipienen
StaffLn, and tann
* recrit or post
- Dis'qtrict Assistant D.rectors
- 'Zaluk Nutrition Officers (Th0s)
- Thatructresses and Superintendants
- Supervisors                                                                m                                                              r
- CI4Ws and helpers                                                     =   -                                       -m
comsplete development of curriculac and
prepare training manuals for CNs,
supervisurs and instructresses
5 develop in-service traini4g program for
ThOs and cotduct training
* select trainers of instrnictresses
* organize and carryout trainers workshop
and field trial teaching
* carry our initial training of supervisors
and instructresses
carry ot pre-service C(W   training                                         a     : :-~-                                             --
training~~~~~~~~~ I - 
services                                                                 mm .-
supervi!oe CN4Ws                                              - m - m            -I
e concract for food supolementt
precurement and deliveryI
-aarrange interim  food delvery toI
Kottampatti
* conduct organoleiptic tests of supplement
in clinic and in field
*to develop local financing arrangements
for CNWs and CNCslm m                                                                             ,                                u
Loni-torinj
*          * ~~ref ine key mnontoring indicators in
consula.titon ~,:th orcject coordination
offi.ce and Ev a.Qaaicn ZivIiain and
d;velor, monItoring pr ocedures
*  r,r   nd dtssiaemonthlv,
quarterly and annual imple~mentation
reportsm m                                                                              es                     m                         im     m
teat nutrition delivery system In 
Kottczmpocti
rcviqe iuirterLy estLnateA of food
reluLte--nts                                                     <
idcnt lv cpv(u   t-i es or



-52-
~Qv  ,>.r,a:on .k:torsAYN1EX  3b
Activity        .           Year1               Year 2             Year 3                 r4 Yeat 4
Physical Facilities
* construct dormitory and                                                                                       1a~
classroom  facilities in   ' 0.1r
existing female, K-0W schnools
 oven five new female bPHW schools,                         1      T
one LWV school and one HFTC  andI
construct dormitories
* improve one existing HFI7Cf                                                                                                                                  -
* construact dormitory, classroom and
tesidential facilities for field 
training of female fPTWs 
* renovate and expand exist:ing micro-
procure fu-niture, equipment, vehicles                                                              '
and supplies for                                                                                     I
- State headquarters
- Division Health Offices 
- PHCs
- Health subcenters
*site, construct,  equip, furnish and                                                                 I
operate new neal:h subcenters and
upgrade existing ones- - -
Staffing and Training
* appoint State headquartera staff
including senior deputy director and
deputy director (training)
 recruit or post
- Divisional Health O fficers 
- Puiblic Health Nurses
- Female KHP1Ws
- Female supervisors                                        Im--
* complete develooment of curriculae and
* organize and carry out preser-vice trainingj                                                   f
of female ~{aand female, supervisors                      - -- -                            -
* retrain                                                                              1-
-  HNs                                                 --                                  
Other Key, Acton                                                                     7.
*operate new training instit,tto,ns 
*operate health subcenters and MCH                                              '
*supervise ~P~fws                                                                                             m                               
onitori'nP and- Sz:dies 
establish b.ealtn mcn.itor4ing unit and                        ~E~ lV
revievw existing& monitoring tndlcato)rs and
procedures in consultatIon with proiect
coMMUnication  o;ffiCe  n    vaut
Division 
*conduct tests on var cus   cnis
aspects of health. D;-ogram
*tes-t healt- delivery svste~, in 
Kottanpatt  an   eie  agt
*  arry oult st'-dy Of wavs to ~prove drug                                      I
p r ocz r enentan'd delry 5lystm



-53-
ANNEX 5c
Summary of Key Implementation Actions.
Communications Activities
Mctivitr                          Year I    |   Year 2         Year 3        Year 4       Ye4r
Physical Flacillties                                    -                   _
* set up district communication
offices                                                                                 NW
* procure vebicles, furnishings and
equipment for
- state headquarters
- district communication offices            ___I
Staffing and Training
* appoint headquarters staff
* recruit local consultants
* establish techniccl working group
on communicatinns
* recruit and post district communication
officers
Other Kev Actions
* refine behavioral cbj:ctives for
uutritioa and health communications
* design, pretest and produce learnLing
materials for coordinated face-to-face                                                         ||            ||
and mass media communication activities                                                             I
* design, test and produce growth charts                                                                I
* establish management information unit
* organize project support communication                                                            |
activities                                                      m  -  - Li 
* darry out mass media campaigns (radio                          _
and film)                                                    m      m  - |   r _  _                         um .n1
* utilize tradi,tional media (folk theatre)                             I |  |                      I          Iii
* develop and implement procedures for                                                                          Iii
involvIng local formal and informal                                                                   I       IlI
laaders in project implementation| L 
Monitoring
* establish communications monitoring unit
an'i tefine mnitrcrn   intdicators in con-
sultation with, Project coordinati-on of
officc and evaluation division 
uncdertake ad hoc monitoring surveys                                                             * U  U* .. 
* prepare and dissurainate ad hoc brochur.-::                       I  *  
and  aress releares and periodic news-
leLtet                                                     mmm                  -~mn      mmuuu



- 54 -
Su-asv of Key Lole  entation Actions
ANNEX 5 d
F.valuacion
Activity                   Ycar 1        |     'ear 2            Year 3             Year 4           Year 5
Physical- Facilities
5 set up District field units
* procure equipment, supplies and
vehicles for
- State headquarters                                            i
- Dlistrict field units
Staffinf ard Training
* appoint component manager and
state headquarters staff
* establish evaluation technical
advisory committee
* organize in-service training for
state and district level staff                       7.
- -elect and train investigators
3 assist in development of curriculum7
for traininZ of C3qWs, MPHWs and
supervisory staff in monitoring and
rinorting procedures
F_valuation and Studies
* design, procest and administer
questionnaires for baseline and impact
surveys in project and control areas
* conduct mid-term  and terminal (6th year)
evaluation
* cartv out evaluation of nutrition and
health training activities
3 undertake background studies for design
of communication messages
- conduct mortality survey                                                    I   I   I -          -      t -             _
* undertake or cossnission other studies,
as needed; including MoniCoring sury'y ona
- comunications activities
- supplementary feeding
- weighing exercise and beneficiary
selection
* establish procedures for dissemination of
findings, conclusions and decisions
*organize annual evaluation conferences
Other  Key Activities
* test operation and adminiscration of
?re.ect activities in Korcampatti
* initiate nutrition surveillance scheme
in project and concrol areas                                                                                -              -   -   -   -
* conduct longitudinal village surveys                                I      I r   ,       r
* identify and set priorities fot in-depth
studiesm m
idencify research agencies for sub-
conttraced selected special studies                L                                                                         L
*review oeriodically overall project                                                                                                             7
allocations and expenditures                                     K
I   I   I         I  I     I                           I             I I I 1



- 55 -
A-NNb.  Se
Summary of Key implementation Actions
Project Coordination Office
mctivity                      |  Tea,           Tea 2         Tea, 3        Tear 4       Year 5
Physical Facilities
* select and rent headquarters office
* procure furnishings, equipment, supplies
and vehicles
Staffing and Training
* recruit and appoint headquarters  staff
* organize management training course
Other Key Actions
* prepare detailed annual project
implementation schedule
* set up project accounting system
* prepare annual budget
* review periodically overall project
budget allocations and expenditures
* formalize coordination arrangements
* fund innovations to be pilot tested             _             - _    - _ _     - _    - _    -
* insure proper maintenance of project
equipment, buildings and vehicles                                                       I - _  _  _ -  -  _  _  _ -  _
Monitoring
* establish project monitoring division
* review and refine key monitoring indi-
cators for use in coordinated health,
nutrition and communications monitoring
system in consultation with Evaluation
Division and component management
* develop proceduras for regular and
timely receipts analysis and presen-
tation of selected indicators of key
project activities
* arrange for speedy feedback and
dissemination of implementation
experience in Kottampatti
* prepare quarterly reports for consi-
deration in decision meetirgs of High
Power Committee                            | o  H   a  I                   _



TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
NUTRITION DELIVERY SERVICES
SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART
State Leve~l                                                                 Directorate of Social Welfare
r                                      Joint Director of Social Welfare
I
District Coletr
Madilrall        ~~~Chenrgelpattu         flanmanathaouram             North Arcot                Pudukottai                  Tirunelveli
|  Assistat lt               Assistant                  Assistant                  Assistant                 Assistant                   Assistant
l)istl it i evet Durectoi                  Director                   Director      |Director                              Director,                  Oirector 
ollectors                                                                                                                                            cr
Taltikh                    Taluk                     Taluik                    Taluk                      Taluk                      Taluk
Tahlik        Nutrition                  Nuutiiion                  Nutrition                 Nutrition                  Nutrition                  Nutrition
iLevel         Offiicl-rs                 Offiicer s                 Officer-s                 Officers                   Officers                  Officers
/12 TaluksJ               (1 2 Talu.ks                (12 Taluks)   |(13 Tulaks)                          114 Taluks)                15 l-aluks)
Block        lI"strilctress             Istructress               hsistructress              lfistructress         |    Instructress                Instfructress
Le-vel        (33 Blocks)               1,27 Blocks)              (22 Blocks)                (36 8locks)           |    31 Blocks)    j            (10 Blocks) |
Is-evsti A                     Sipetvisors   |      |     Supervisors   |      | Supervisors    |        | Supervisors                    Supervisors 
II-       I                            I   -               1I                                             II                         i   i|g   
}   Co lit&mity qe            Coinmunitvep t             Cora munittVua             ComrunitV ArcComtunity   |rComunitV
Leel     )     Nutrition                 Nutrition                  Nutrition                 Nutrition                  Nutrition                  Nutrition
w Ofrkers                       Woriers                    Workers                   Workers                    Workers                    Workers
World Bank -21072



TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
RURAL HEALTH SERVICES COMPONENT
SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART
Directorate of Public Health
State                                                                  Senior Deputy Director of Public Health
i evJel                                                              Deputy Director of Public Health (Ttaining)
District I lealIth         DistHici Flealth         District Health              District Health             District Health            District Health
Disuict        Otlicer,                   Officer                   Officer,                     Officer,                   Officer,                    Officer,
Level          Madurat                    Chengelpattu              Ramanathapuram               North Arcot                Tirunelveli                Pudukottai
District                  District                  District                     District                   District                    District
3 Divisional               2 Divisional               3 Divisional               3 Divisional               2 Divisional                Divisional
Dlealth                    Health|  Health                                       Health                     Health                     Health
DLviseonal     Offices                    Offices                     Offices                    Offices                    Offices                    Offices
Leavel         Divisional                 Divisional                  Divisional                 Divisional                 Divisional                 Divisional
Health Officer             Health Officer             Health Officer             Health Officer          |Health Officer               Health Officer
Primaty                    Primary                   Primary                     Primary                    Primary                    Primary
Health|                   Health                     Health                      Health                     Health                     Health            |_n
llock          Centers                    Centers                   Centers                     Centers                    Centers                    Centers
Level         (33 Blocks)                 12|  Blocks1    |          122 Blocks)                (36 Blocks)                (31 Blocks)                (10 Blocks)
Medical Officers           Medical Officers           Medical Officers           Medical Officers           Medical Officers           MedicaJ Officers
LadyV Health                  y  ealth                Lady  -Iealh |             Lady Health                Lady Health                Lady Health
Visitors                   Visitors                   Visitors                   Visitors                   Visitors                   Visitors
Male Health                Male Hfealth               Male Health                Male Health                Male Health                Male Health
Supervisors                Supervisors                Supervisors                Supervisors                Supervisors                Supervisors
| Flesltli              | Health                     Health                      Health                    Hlealth                     Health
Sub Ceriters              Sub Centers                Sub Centers              |Sub Centters                 Sub Centers                Sub Centers
Vfillaje      Male arI Femnale          Male and Female            Male and Female            Male and Female            Male and Female             Male and Female |
Level         Multipurpose               Multipurpose               Multipurpose               Multipurpose               Multipurpose                Multipurpose
Health Workers           Health Workers             Health Workers              Health Workers             Health Workers             Health Workers
World Bank - 21069
crS



TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION AND COMMUNICATION ARRANGEMENTS
High-Powered Comirittee
Chief Secretary, Chairman
Project Coordinator. Member-
Secretary
Secretaries of Fiiance.
Social Welfare. Health,
Agriculture, Rural
Development; managinig
directors of Tamil Nadoi
Waler and Drainage Board
andl Agro-engineering
Services Cooperative
Federation, Ltd.
| Chief Project Coordinator |
|   (Secretary, Social Welfare)|
. 
Commupnications                             Oec ration                           Moritoring                 rEvalatiI
J   SCordinatoWlfr, CoPnctosAmnsration                                            StatstidlnOficeon 
Joint Coordnator, Comunicationsand FinanceStiscaOfce
Assistait Communications Otficer             Administrative Officer              2 Computer Programrners            I     See separate char     I
Newslihloletin Editor                        Senior Accounts Officer             5 Statistical Assistants
Ait Direciot                                 Section Officer
Mottitolifi) Offlicer                        Senior Assistai                                                                                    I
Media Officer                                4 Accounts Assistants
Productioni Officer                          2 Junior Assistants
Trcamring Otflicer
Pholoofar.pher,
__._L_                                  _  _  _ __             _                               _~~
Technical Working G-rip
World Bank   21070



TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
EVALUATION ACTIVITIES
SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART
Directorate of Evaluation
and Applied Research
Exte inal Consultants                               jDept. of Finance)                              Technical Advisory Committee
National Institute of Nutrition.
.      -  -  - _   _ __ _-     _ _f  -  -  -  -  -                       Hyderabad
Institute of Child Health, Madras
Sri Avinashilingan College
Coimbatore
Joint Director                               Gandhigram Rural Institute
Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study,
Madras
Erskine Hospital, Madurai
Evaluationi and( Sui veillansce                                                                                                                                              iA
Section                             Specialist Staff                            Special Studies Section             Administrative Stippiort Section                ia
Deputy Directolr           4            Nutritionist                                    Deputy Ditector                        Research Officer1-
Heseaicli Officer                       Health Expert                                   Research Officer                       Jr. Accounts Oflicer
2 Research Assistarits                   Epirlemiologist                                2 Research Assistants                  Office Superintendent
Rural Sociologist                              6 PhD Students                         2 Assistants
Anthropologist                                                                        2 Jr. Assistants
Statistician                                                                           Steno
Computer Programmer                                                                    Driver
6 District Field Units                  20 Investigators                                 Test & Pilot Block                    Record clerk
Field Unit                       iLGGS
each stafted by
Research Officer                                                                       Research Officer
3 Jr Research Assistatits                                                              2 Jr. Research Assistants
15 Investigators                                                                       10 Investigators
1] Also undertakes work in Evaluation & Surveillance Section
World Bank - 21071



February 1, 1980
INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Nutrition Delivery Component
Estimated Yearly Base Cost by Categor
(In Rupees)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5            Total
Civil Works                            1,142,400    1,152,600       1,347,600      1,642,200            --          5,284,800
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
1. Vehicles                           887,800    1,343,500       1,191,700      1,620,900           --          5,043,900
2. Equipment and Furniture          4,615,200    4,797,300       5,454,800      6,729,100           --         21,596,400
Subtotal                            5,503,000    6,140,800       6,646,500      8,350,000           --         26,640,300
Training                               1,597,636    1,750,919       2,008,312      2,431,951          276,365       8,065,183      s
Technical Assistance                      80,000        --             --             --                --             80,000
Food Supplement Costs                    122,000    4,173,000       8,699,000    15,091,000       22,662,000       50,747,000
Incremental Operating Costs
1. Supplies                            16,000       398,000        900,000      1,402,000       2,066,000       4,782,000
2. Salaries and Allowances            727,810    6,522,120    12,797,800    19,739,280         29,642,380      69,429,390
3. Vehicle Operating Costs             50,000       400,000        825,000      1,250,000       1,840,000       4,365,000
4. Other Operating Costs              100,620    1,405,440      2,786,300       4               6,359,280      15,032,900
Subtotal                              894,430    8,725,560    17,309,100    26,772,540         39,907,660      93,609,290
TOTAL                               9,339,466   21,942,879    36,010,512    54,287,691         62,846,025    184,426,573
--4



February 1, 1980
INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Rural Health Services
Estimated Yearly Base. Bost by Category
(In Rupees)
Year 1      Year 2           Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Total
Civil Works                          19,655,500  11,206,000        9,646,000    14,000,000    15,900,500         70,407,500
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
1. Vehicles                         2,022,800      758,800         958,600      1,080,400      1,135,600        5,956,200
2. Equipment and Furniture          3,972 368   3,285,812        3,466,024      4,242,860      4,731,100       19,698,164
Subtotal                            5,995,168   4,044,612        4,424,624      5,323,260      5,866,700       25,654,364
Training                              2,490,080   2,131,400        3,059,450      2,783,810       1,835,710      12,300,450
Incremental Operating Costs
1. Drugs and Supplies               1,527,473   4,716,837        7,311,490    11,028,428    15,262,389         39,846,617
a. Drugs                           835,423   3,588,437        6,456,240    10,066,278    14,116,739         35,063,117
b. Supplies                        692,050   1,128,400          855,250        962,150      1,145,650        4,783,500
2. Salaries and Allowances          1,025,394   1,605,186        2,616,015      5,291,083      8,146,137       18,689,315
3. Vehicle Operating Costs             29,400       49,000          88,200        127,400         156,800         450,800
4. Other Operating Costs                 --          5,970         174,060         318,660        528,660       1,027,350
Subtotal                            2,582,267   6,376,993       10,189,765    16,765,571    24,094,48          60,009,082
TOTAL                              30,723,015  23,759,005       27,319,839    38,872,641    47,696,896    168,371,396
ul



INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Communications
Estimated Yearly Base Cost by Category
(In Rupees)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4        Year 5          Total
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
1. Vehicles                               91,300         --             20,000         10,000        20,000          141,300
2. Equipment and Furniture               386,756         19,800         35,800         30,800        40,000          513,156
Subtotal                                 478,056         19,800         55,800         40,800        60,000          654,456
Training                                    162,974        370,982        543,522         629,522       788,700       2,495,700
Contract Services                         1,337,276      3,009,033      3,736,867      5,195,200    4,279,972        17,558,348
Technical Assistance                        566,785         255,000       135,000         135,000       135,000       1,226,785
Incremental Operating Costs
1. Supplies                              125,000         80,000         80,000         85,000       105,000          475,000
2. Salaries and Allowances               209,208        218,534        227,089        236,705       246,798        1,138,334
3. Vehicle Operating Costs                13,400         13,400         15,800         17,000         19,400          79,000
4. Other Operating Costs                 129,670        129,670        129,670        129,670       129,670          648,350
Subtotal                                 477,278        441,604        452,559        468,375       500,868        2,340,684
TOTAL                                  3,022,369      4,096,419      4,923,748      6,468,897    5,764,540        24,275,973



INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Estimated Yearly Base Cost by Category
(In Rupees)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5          Year 6      Total
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
1. Vehicles                              141,000         46,000         23,000         46,000          --             --           256,000
2. Equipment and Furniture               109,500         24,000         12,000         24,000          --                          169,500
Subtotal                                 250,500         70,000         35,000         70,000          --             --              ,
Training and Conferences                     78,200         78,200        203,000        203,000       189,800           56,600        808,800
Contract Services                            60,000        180,000        210,000        230,000       360,000         400,000      1,440,000
Technical Assistance                         38,000         38,000         38,000         38,000        38,000           25,000        215,000
Intremental Operating Costs
1. Supplies                               36,000         37,000         42,000         42,000        42,000           --            199,000
2. Salaries and Allowances               307,556        720,411        928,427      1,136,765    1,270,583          649,000      5,012,742
3. Vehicle Operating Costs                 8,300         11,100         11,300         11,300        11,300           5,500          58,800
4. Other Operating Costs                  17,325         37 125         40,838         45,169        54,633          26,000         221,090
Subtotal                                 369,181        805,636      1,022,565      1,235,234    1,378,516          680,500      5,491,632
TOTAL                                    795,881      1,171,836      1,508,565      1,776,234    1,966,316        1,162,100       8,380,932



INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Coordination Costs
Estimated Yearly Base Cost by Category
(In Rupees)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4        Year 5          Total
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
1. Vehicles                             155,000          -               --                                       155,000
2. Equipment and Furniture              892,000          --                      _                                892,000
Subtotal                              1,048,000          --              --            --           --          1,048,000
Project Management Fund                      --           420,000        840,000      1,260,000    1,680,000       4,200,000
Incremental Operating Costs
1. Supplies                              10,000         10,000         10,000         11,000       11,000          52,000
2. Salaries and Allowances              406,192        412,020        422,007       435,056       446,724       2,122,000
3. Vehicle Operating Costs               37,500         37,500         37,500        37,500        37,500         187,500
4. Other Operating Costs                155,000        155,000        155,000       155,000       155,000         775,000
Subtotal                                608,692        614,520        624,507       638,556       650,224       3,136,499
TOTAL                                 1,656,692      1,034,520      1,464,507     1,898,556    2,330,224        8,384,499



65 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA: TAMIL NADU NUTRITION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Section A
A.1       The Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study: An Operations-Oriented Study of
Nutrition as an Integrated System in the State of Tamil Nadu,
Sidney M. Cantor Assoc. Inc. (1973), 6 volumes.
A.2       Nutrition as a Function of Public Health:  Nutrition-Related
Morbidity in Tamil Nadu, Sidney M. Cantor Assoc. Inc. (1973).
A.3       "The Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project," S. Rajagopalan (1974).
A.4       Nutrition Atlas of India, C. Gopalan and K. Vijaya Raghava,
National Institute of Nutrition (1969).
A.5       "National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau -- Report for the Year 1978,"
National Institute of Nutrition (1979).
A.6       "Health and Nutrition in India:  Recommendations for Ford Foundation
Support," D.R. Gwatkin (1974).
A.7       Food Habits Survey, Operations Research Group (Baroda) for
Protein Foods Association of India [no date] 2 volumes.
A.8       "UNICEF Annual Report for India" (1979).
A.9       "USAID Evaluation of Title II Program:  India" (1979) [extract].
A.10      "Report of the Seminar on the Pre-School Child" [no author] (1970).
A.11      Nutrition in Tamil Nadu, R.P. Devadas (1972).
A.12      Selected Nutrition Intervention Programs in Tamil Nadu,
R.P. Devadas [unpublished draft] (1979).
A.13      "Rural Health Services in Tamil Nadu," Department of Public Health
and Preventive Medicine (1978).
A.14      Nutrition and Family Planning in India, B. Wickstrom (1977).
A.15      The Feeding and Care of Infants and Young Children, S. Ghosh (1976).
A.16      "Tamil Nadu, An Economic Appraisal 1976-77," Finance Department (1978).



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
Section B
B.1       "Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project," Department of
Social Welfare (1979).
B.2       "Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project," Department of Public Health
and Preventive Medicine (1979).
B.3       "World Bank Nutrition Project:  Pilot Block Project Design,"
Department of Social Welfare (1979).
Section C
C.1       Working Papers on Nutrition, Health, Communications, and
Monitoring and Evaluation.
c.2       Working Paper on "The Number of Direct Beneficiaries of the Supple-
mentary Feeding Program and Project Food Requirements."
c.3       Working Paper on "Criteria for Enrolling Children in and Discharging
Them from the Supplementary Feeding Program."
c.4       Working Paper on "The Economics of Supplemental Feeding of Mal-
nourished Children: A Case STudy of Leakages, Benefits and Costs."



A  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~A                                       P~~~~~~~~~~~RD 14748
INDIA
TAMIL NADU  NUTRITION  PROJECT                                                 A NDHRA  'PR'A DFSH          2
PROJECT DISTRICTS                                 ~                                    ~
1,1. 11 IT  -TI Ill ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N.VA AN
N NAtN   ATNH    A R 'NOT,
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(DH:AR/MA PC,URI     
KARNA)AKA                                 NAN          / 
R U  HC  AL I          IONLICHkR
-W
-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KARIKAL
K,RA I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANI 
J ~~~~~~N( ~~~~~~~                           ATI4NjAVUR-~-
5                                    A  PUDUKAADOR A-
ADR A    NNATA 'A 
0~~~~~~~~~~ 
k LOME~~~~~~~~~~~NNI
K NY
'A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



