1  CREDIT NUMBER 1003 IN
Project Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE 'F TAMIL NADU
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1003 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      /Ly4    1A            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF TAMIL NADU, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Tamil Nadu).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty two million dollars
($32,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Tamil
Nadu agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Tamil Nadu, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Tamil Nadu shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, civil works and services to be


﻿-2-
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. In order to assist Tamil Nadu in the carrying
out of the Project, Tamil Nadu shall, wherever necessary, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and to the
Association.
Section 2.04. (a) Tamil Nadu undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Tamil Nadu to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Tamil
Nadu shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Tamil Nadu shall firnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Tamil Nadu: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Tamil Nadu
and the Association, Tamil Nadu shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by Tamil Nadu
and the Association of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Tamil Nadu shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Tamil Nadu shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Tamil Nadu of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Tamil Nadu shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and, if requested by the
Association, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 2.08. Tamil Nadu shall:
(a) carry out reviews of Project execution (i) one year
after Project services have been introduced in Kottampatti block;
and (ii) after Project services have been introduced in about 70
blocks, but not later than March 31, 1983, such reviews to be
under terms of reference satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and the
Association, and shall furnish the Association with the results of
such reviews;
(b) take into account in the review to be carried out
under paragraph (a) (ii) above the evaluation of mobile medical
teams in Tamil Nadu being undertaken by the National Institute


﻿-4-
of Health and Family Welfare and the results of other pilot
projects and studies with respect to ways to introduce community
health and nutrition services in Tamil Nadu; and
(c) adjust, wherever feasible, the design and the implemen-
tation schedule of the Project in accordance with the results of
the reviews referred to in paragraph (a) above, taking into
account the comments thereon made by the Association.       a
Section 2.09. Tamil Nadu undertakes that, should Tamil
Nadu during the Project period make changes in the rural health
system in the Project Area, Tamil Nadu shall, after consultation
with the Association, take all such measures as may be necessary
to: (i) maintain the efficiency, quality and level of nutrition
and health services and (ii) ensure appropriate utilization of
CNWs in order to avoid duplication of said services.
Section 2.10. Tamil Nadu shall, not later than December
31, 1980, establish an Advisory Panel on Evaluation, such Panel
(i) to include representatives from concerned agencies of Tamil
Nadu and the Borrower and appropriate research institutions;
and (ii) to meet as frequently as necessary throughout the Project
period in order to review and comment on the evaluation of the
Project.
Section 2.11. Tamil Nadu shall, not later than August 31,
1980, prepare and furnish to the Association for its comments
curricula for the training of staff under the Project, and shall
thereafter carry out said training in accordance with such
curricula, taking into account the comments thereon made by the
Association.
Section 2.12. Tamil Nadu shall, not later than June 30,
1981, carry out and furnish to the Association for its comments,
under terms of reference satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and the
Association, a study designed to identify ways of improving
selection, procurement and delivery of drugs and medicines for
primary health centers and health sub-centers.
Section 2.13. Tamil Nadu shall, not later than August 31,
1980, (i) establish within the Directorate of Public Health,
Madras, a post of Deputy Director (Training), with special
responsibility for ensuring appropriateness and timeliness of
training under the Project, and (ii) appoint thereto an officer
with suitable qualifications and experience.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.14. Tamil Nadu undertakes that it will seek and
obtain the approval of the Association for each expenditure in
excess of $50,000 equivalent to be made out of the proceeds of the
Project Management Fund.
Section 2.15. Tamil Nadu undertakes to apply selection
criteria satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and the Association for
beneficiaries of the food supplement program under Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.16. Tamil Nadu undertakes to carry out the final
evaluation study under Part D of the Project under terms of
reference satisfactory to Tamil Nadu and the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Tamil Nadu shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of Tamil Nadu responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.02. Tamil Nadu shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements in respect of the Project for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of said accounts for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Tamil Nadu thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Tamil Nadu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
For Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu
Fort St. George
Madras 600009
INDIA
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
MADRAS
INDIA
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Tamil Nadu may be taken or executed by
the Chief Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu or such other
person or persons as Tamil Nadu shall designate in writing, and
Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment, furniture, drugs and supplies shall
be bulked wherever possible and (i) if the value of such equip-
ment, furniture, drugs and supplies is estimated to cost $50,000
or more, it shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; and (ii) if the value of such equipment, furniture, drugs
and supplies is estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent it
may be procured by prudent shopping through normal commercial
channels under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for vehicles shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures satis-
factory to the Association, except that bicycles may be procured
by individual staff through the provision of loans made by Tamil
Nadu out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.   Contracts for services shall be procured at a reasonable
price taking into account the quality of such services and the
competence of the parties rendering them.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Tamil
Nadu shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association sl-rll reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with this Schedule, promptly inform Tamil Nadu and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect t3 contracts for services exceeding $100,000
equivalent, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Association for its
comments prior to their execution, copies of the proposed con-
tracts, and shall make such modifications in said contracts as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraphs, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly
inform Tamil Nadu a-d state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme


﻿- 30 -
urgency) which would increase the cost of the cont:act by more
than 15% of the original price, Tamil Nadu shall inform t1re
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Tamil Nadu
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL E WELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
1 912..
FOR SECRETARY


