OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1003 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1003 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     t/af    /40, 1980, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Tamil
Nadu with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to the State of Tamil Nadu
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Tamil Nadu;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State of
India, or any successor thereof;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Project Area" means the area comprising all 170 rural
blocks in the following districts of Tamil Nadu: Chengalpattu,
Madurai, North Arcot, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli;
(d) "CNCs" means community nutrition centers to be set
up under the Project;
(e) "CNWs" means community nutrition workers to be deployed
under the Project;
(f) "MPHWs" means multipurpose health workers to be deployed
under the Project; and
(g) "Project Management Fund" means the fund to be estab-
lished under Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, civil works and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1990 and ending February 1,
2030 each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 2000 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern .reland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of thE. General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tamil
Nadu to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Tamil Nadu will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Tamil
Nadu.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu, and is legally
binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date 1q"        1A   I9e0     is hereby
specified for the purposes of ection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Secion 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi,
India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-6-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By     /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (5f
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  10,600,000       80%
(2) Vehicles, equipment           7,500,000       80%
and furniture
(3) Training                      3,300,000       80%
(4) Contract services            2,600,000        80%
and technical
assistance
(5) Project Management             500,000        80%
Fund
(6) Drugs and supplies            6,300,000       80%
(7) Unallocated                   1,200,000
TOTAL        32,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the


﻿-8-
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$300,000 may be made in respect of Categories 3 and 4 on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
September 1, 1979.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase the efficiency and
coverage of Tamil Nadu's rural nutrition and complementary health
efforts. The Project consists of the following parts to be carried
out in the Project Area:
Part A:   Nutrition Delivery Services
Strengthening of Tamil Nadu's capacity to identify and
improve the nutritional status of pre-school children (with
emphasis on those aged 6-36 months) and pregnant and nursing
women, through the establishment of a network of about 9,000 CNCs,
each staffed by a CNW and helper. This Part of the Project shall
be carried out by the Social Welfare Department of Tamil Nadu and
shall include, inter alia, the development of a nutrition sur-
veillance system for pre-school children (with emphasis on those
aged 6-36 months), the provision of short-term food supplements
for selected children and pregnant and nursing women, the provi-
sion of incremental staff salaries and training for CNWs, helpers
and supervisors to the State level and the provision of vehicles,
equipment and supplies.
Part B:   Rural Health Services
Strengthening of rural health care coverage in Tamil Nadu
through the establishment of a multipurpose health worker system.
This Part of the Project shall be carried out by the Department
of Health and Family Welfare of Tamil Nadu and shall include the
construction, equipping, staffing and operation of about 1,600
health sub-centers and training for the operating and supervisory
staff thereof, the construction, equipping, staffing and operation
of health training facilities, and the provision of vehicles,
furniture and equipment, drugs and medical supplies.
Part C:   Nutrition Communications
Improvement of the quality of training of CNWs, MPHWs and
other staff involved in the Project, promotion of local com-
munities' participation in Project activities and promotion of
improved family food and child care practices, through the provi-
sion of pre- and in-service training materials, films and film
strips, posters and wall paintings, radio ads and other mass media


﻿- 10 -
communications materials. This Part of the Project shall be
carried out by Tamil Nadu's Department of Social Welfare through
its Project Coordination Office.
Part D:   Monitoring and Evaluation
The carrying out of continuing monitoring of Project activi-
ties and evaluation of the impact of the Project on the nutrition
and health status of the target groups. This Part of the Project
shall be carried out by Tamil Nadu's Departments of Social Welfare
(through its Project Coordination Office and other Units), Health
and Family Welfare, and Finance, and shall include, inter alia, a
baseline and annual follow-up sample surveys of nutrition and
health conditions of target groups, periodic studies to assess the
validity of information generated through the carrying out of
Parts A, B and C of the Project, periodic reviews of Project
implementation, including the effectiveness of nutrition and
health worker training, special studies relating to the costs and
impact of the Project as compared to other nutrition efforts by
Tamil Nadu aimed at similar target groups, and a final evaluation
study, to be undertaken in the last year of Project execution, of
Project costs and achievements in relation to Tamil Nadu's nutri-
tion and rural health policies and modes of delivering nutrition
and health services, their impact and managerial and budgetary
implications.
Part E:   Project Management Fund
Establishment and operation of a fund to support innovative
studies and pilot activities designed to test ways of furthering
the objectives of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   (2       day of
19FO                         S    E
FOR SECRETARY


