                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29078

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (PPFI-Q0270 TF-29152 TF-26733 IDA-30730 TF-26598)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                                 FOR A

                                        SOCIAL FUND PROJECT




                                               June 7, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 29, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                          1,000 CFA Francs = US$ 1.848
                                      US$ 1 = 541 CFA Francs

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AGeFIB    Basic Initiatives Financing Agency
          (Agence de Financement des Initiatives de
          Base)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDD       Community-Driven Development
CFA       African Financial Community
          (Communauté financière africaine)
GTZ       German Development Agency
          (Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit)
IDA       International Development Association
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NGO       Non-Government Organization
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAMR      Borgou Pilot Rural Support Project
          (Project d'Appui au Monde Rural)
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SFDI      Informal Decentralized Finance Systems
          (Système Financier Décentralisé Informel)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WB        World Bank




                             Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                           Country Director     Pedro Alba
                            Sector Manager      Alexandre V. Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Moukim Temourov

                                            BENIN
                                  SOCIAL FUND PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Impact Evaluation - Preliminary results                                 24

Project ID: P035645                                                  Project Name: Social Fund
Team Leader: Moukim Temourov                                         TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 7, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Fund                                              L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0270; TF-29152;
                                                                                                     TF-26733; IDA-30730;
                                                                                                     TF-26598
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (64%); Other social services (20%); Health (8%);
                            Roads and highways (8%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Social risk reduction (P); Other social protection
                            and risk management (P); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/31/1995                                     Effective: 09/30/1998                04/12/1999
     Appraisal: 04/30/1997                                         MTR: 06/05/2001                  06/15/2001
      Approval: 05/19/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF PLANNING AND EMPLOYMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Midou Ibrahima                                 Maurizia Tovo
ICR Primary Author:             Moukim Temourov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Project Background.       The Benin Social Fund Project was prepared in response to the Beninese
Government's request for World Bank assistance in implementing the Social Dimension of Development
Program adopted in 1992. Based on this program, in June 1994, the Government presented to the donor
community a strategy comprising four elements:

(i)      strengthening the national capacity to formulate and implement social policies,
(ii)     monitoring the living conditions of vulnerable groups,
(iii)    promoting community-based development through sub-projects, and
(iv)     promoting employment.

While substantial donor assistance was pledged for the first, second and fourth component, the Government
of Benin specifically requested World Bank assistance to fund the third component through a project
establishing a social fund. The project was also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
Benin. One of the CAS objectives was provision of technical and financial support to the government's
development strategy via promotion of community-based development and employment. In addition, the
project also addressed the CAS objective to "promote women's participation in economic activities."

Although the Ministry of Plan, Economic Restructuring and Employment Promotion was the responsible
agency on behalf of the Government of Benin, the project was implemented by AGeFIB (AGence de
Financement des Initiatives de Base), an association set up for the purpose of managing the Social Fund.

Project Objectives. The Benin Social Fund project had three objectives:

i)       improved access to basic social services;
ii)      community empowerment; and
iii)     increased income-generation by the poor.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the project were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The Benin Social Fund Project had four components.             Component 1: Socioeconomic infrastructure
(US$9.3 million ­ 46% of total credit) - financing of small socioeconomic infrastructure (e.g.,
rehabilitation or extension of elementary schools and health centers, installation of water points,
construction of latrines, repair of bridges, markets, etc.). The Social Fund financed 90% of the total cost of
microprojects, with communities contributing the remaining 10% of the cost. Local contributions were
made either in cash or via provision of labor and materials. The project also paid 20% of the grant amount
to local communities for NGO's assistance to communities. This assistance included helping communities
to organize, identify and prioritize problems, discuss possible solutions, select a sub-project, work out
concrete plans and a budget, submit a proposal to AGeFIB and implement the sub-project.

Component 2: Income generation (US$5.1 million ­ 25% of total credit) - support to income-generating
activities in low-income groups by facilitating access to formal financial intermediation and by providing
assistance to informal financial intermediaries, especially those reaching out to women, in the form of
institution building grants and matching grants. This component had three sub-components - i) social
intermediation between the poor and formal financial systems, ii) technical assistance to small-scale



                                                      - 2 -

entrepreneurs for the preparation of feasibility studies and obtaining grants, and iii) institutional
development assistance to informal savings and credit groups, known as SFDIs. NGOs hired to implement
this component were paid according to initially agreed budget proposals, which were based on the costs of
reaching a particular locality, number of banking accounts to be opened, technical assistance to informal
savings and credit groups, and other similar expenses.

Component 3: Capacity building (US$1.9 million - 9% of total credit) - capacity building and social
capital development, primarily at the grass-root and the intermediary level (NGOs), through a variety of
means (e.g., information, training and short-term technical assistance) to equip beneficiaries with
organizational, managerial and strategic skills.

Component 4: Institutional strengthening of AGeFIB (US$4.2 million - 20% of total credit) - operating
expenditures for project management implementation, management and supervision. The project covered
(i) small investments, such as construction or rehabilitation of office space, office equipment, furniture and
vehicles, as well as consultant services, workshops and training, and (ii) operating expenditures for project
implementation, management and supervision, such as staff salaries (on a contractual basis), field
supervision and associated subsistence allowances, office consumables, and maintenance of buildings,
vehicles and equipment.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the project were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on the following factors: (i) the project was
consistent with the CAS and government priorities of providing basic social services to the poor,
community empowerment and support of income-generating activities; (ii) the project's objectives were
clear and realistic, and they were important for the country at the time of project preparation and remain so
even today; (iii) given the demand-driven nature of social funds, no exact targets were set on project
outcomes, but each project component had clear key performance indicators and monitoring and
supervision mechanisms; (iv) the project design incorporated lessons from the experience of other social
funds as well as those from a pilot project, which helped define institutional arrangements; and (v) the
project was prepared at the request of and in close collaboration with the Government, as well as with the
representatives of development partners (UNDP and GTZ). The components of the project were directly
related to achieving the project objectives and to the capacity of AGeFIB, the implementing agency.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's objectives remained consistent with the country and sectoral assistance strategies expressed in
Benin's PRSP (2002) and the Bank's CAS (2003). Specifically, the project addressed directly two out of
four central goals of Benin's PRSP: (i) improving access to basic education, literacy, primary health care,
safe water, and deepening the fight against prevention of new HIV/AIDS infections, malaria and
tuberculosis, with specific attention to vulnerable groups, especially women; and (ii) promoting long-term
employment and building capacity for poor people to participate in the decision-making process and in
production. As for the Bank's Benin CAS, the Social Fund Project objectives remained consistent with the
Bank's objective to "strengthen efforts towards tangible progress in the social sectors, building effective and
responsive public institutions, promoting gender equality, and strengthening collaboration with the private
sector and civil society".




                                                     - 3 -

Project Objectives:

Overall, the Social Fund Project's outcome is rated satisfactory. Based on the data available and according
to preliminary results of the impact evaluation study (see below and Annex 8), the Social Fund Project (i)
exceeded all its major objectives, and (ii) is likely to achieve substantial development results. Even if these
two main criteria for rating a project as highly satisfactory are met, but lack of the final results of the
impact study by the time when this report was prepared did not allow the team to rate the Social Fund
project as highly satisfactory.

The project was very successful in achieving its first objective, i.e., provision of basic social services via
strengthening of community-level infrastructure (schools, health centers, water points, markets, storage
facilities, public latrines, and rural roads). According to the Government's evaluation report, upon
completion of the project, almost 90 thousand people in Benin (including 49 thousand women) had better
access to improved social services, i.e. the new infrastructure was closer to where the poor live and of
better quality. The number of beneficiaries of this component was almost twice as high as originally
planned in the PAD because (i) the project-funded infrastructure was less expensive than similar
infrastructure built by other agencies (see Section 4.3), and (ii) the original unit cost estimates in PAD were
based on average unit cost estimates available by the time when the project was designed, which were
higher than the real cost of AgeFIB-funded subprojects. Subprojects were selected through geographic
targeting to ensure broad political support. The Social Fund was the first project in Benin with the national
coverage and it was active in all regions of the country. Primary schools were the most requested
subproject, which was consistent with pre-project needs assessments. The midterm review (MTR) impact
evaluation report concluded that demand for primary schools was strengthened by the fact that
parent/student associations were active in generating requests from local communities. Impact evaluation
studies and field missions showed that schools were highly utilized, indicating that the project funds were
used for the services that communities really needed.

A technical audit report prepared for the mid-term review showed that enrollment in schools built with
AGeFIB funds had increased by 20 percent.            In addition to new local enrollments, this increase in
attendance was partially due to the fact that the new and renovated schools attracted more children from the
nearby villages. The report also showed that AGeFIB-funded infrastructure was less expensive than the
similar infrastructure financed by the government or other developmental agencies with no discernible
decrease in quality, thus suggesting substantial savings in public expenses (see Section 4.3). These results
are indicative of the whole project because even if the MTR was conducted at the chronological mid-point,
disbursement-wise the project was further ahead with almost the two-third of the IDA credit disbursed by
the MTR.     An impact evaluation study conducted in 2003 concluded that training and information
campaign by AGeFIB also led to increased school attendance by girls. In the village of Suanin in Borgou,
for instance, a group of women volunteered to work with all families in the village to make sure that all
children of school age, regardless of sex, attend the school and that girls are not forced to marry at early
age and against their will. Preliminary results of the impact evaluation study using the 2003 household
survey data showed that the average gross enrollment rate in primary schools built by AGeFIB (135%) is
44 percent higher than in non-AGeFIB schools (91%). The school enrolment gender gap in AGeFIB-built
schools is just 5 percent, while for non-AGeFIB the gap is 22 percent (see Annex 8).

The project's second objective, i.e., community empowerment, was also very successful. The Social Fund
was one of the first development projects to assign a decision making role on the selection, design and
implementation of micro-infrastructure projects to 700 local communities and 60 NGOs in marked contrast
to Benin's highly centralized administrative structure. Each community selected a management committee,
which together with the NGO, prepared an application package for funding by AGeFIB. Management


                                                       - 4 -

committees were required to have at least one female member, and the gender impact evaluation study
conducted in 2002 concluded that this inclusion helped women to be brought within the planning process
and was important for their standing in the community. Upon review and approval by AGeFIB, funds were
then transferred directly to the banking account of the community managed by the management committee.
The management committees were responsible for selecting local artisans and private businesses to
implement the sub-project, and, with assistance by the NGO, they also prepared the implementation
progress reports required for sub-project tranche release by AGeFIB. A 2001 World Bank review of four
Benin CDD projects called "best practice" the community management of subproject financing and
contracting of works in AGeFIB-funded microprojects.

The Social Fund Project was successful in achieving its third objective, i.e., increased income-generation
by the poor. This objective was achieved via:

i) Social intermediation between the poor and formal financial systems - according to the Government
project evaluation report, at the end of the project about 100 thousand people (including 76 thousand
women) had increased or more stable income due to access to credit facilitated by the social intermediation
provided by NGOs and financed by the Social Fund.             The NGOs helped these individuals obtain
memberships, open a banking account and apply for credits to formal financial institutions. Many people
in Benin, especially the poor, do not have access to financial institutions either because they lack
elementary knowledge on how financial institutions operate or because they lack initial funds to obtain a
membership and to open a banking account. In this regard, intermediation by NGOs was very successful in
helping disadvantaged groups (especially women) access financial services. According to the gender
impact evaluation study, access to small loans allowed many participants (80% of whom are women) to
increase their economic activities and to invest into children's education and healthcare services.
Individuals were able to pay back their credits without major difficulties, but lack of funds in local
financial institutions made it impossible to obtain subsequent loans.

ii) Technical assistance to small-scale entrepreneurs in preparation of feasibility studies - intermediary
NGOs provided technical assistance to entrepreneurs by conducting feasibility studies for their
micro-projects and helping them secure external funding.           This subcomponent was successful in
transferring the "know-how" knowledge from experienced NGOs to new entrepreneurs and enabled these
individuals to use the acquired knowledge for future projects and income-generating activities.

iii) Institutional development assistance to informal savings and credit groups - the Social Fund provided
technical assistance (via NGOs) to informal community-based savings and credit groups (known as
SFDIs). To become a member in a SFDI one has to pay a non-refundable membership fee and a monetary
contribution to the SFDI's working capital, and new members also have to be recommended by an existing
member(s). The Social Fund Project was successful in helping SFDIs improve operations and increase
memberships and outreach.        At the end of the project, all the AGeFIB-assisted SFDIs had banking
accounts, so they were better integrated with the formal financial sector. The project also provided the
selected SFDIs with small grants. A larger working capital allowed the beneficiary SFDIs to provide more
small loans to their members at a lower interest rate. The gender study concluded that the impact on
women's saving and credit groups was especially important because the improved access to less expensive
credit empowered women to play a more active decision-making role in the household.

An impact evaluation study of Component 2 conducted by HORUS, a French NGO, stressed the high
competence and professionalism of AGeFIB staff. The study, however, also said that not all contracted
NGOs had necessary qualifications to implement this component. To address this critique, in late 2001
AGeFIB conducted a complete evaluation of the NGOs, fired a group of them due to poor performance,


                                                     - 5 -

and provided additional training for the remaining ones.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Socioeconomic infrastructure. Under its first component, the Social Fund Project financed
830 micro-projects (against 600 planned in PAD) in 700 villages of all twelve departments of Benin. The
sectoral breakdown of the projects was the following: primary schools (604), health and maternity centers
(34), installation of water points and reservoirs (100), rural roads (31), and markets and storage facilities
(61). Spending was as follows: primary schools (78.5% of total), rural roads (8.3%), storage and market
facilities (5.5%), health (4.0%), and water installations (3.7%).

Component 2. Income generation. Under subcomponent 1, about 127,000 individuals participated in the
program and 69,000 of them were able to open banking accounts, with 75 percent of these individuals also
obtaining small credits. A total of 95,550 small loans for a total amount of 3,241 million CFA francs
(about 5 million US dollars) were received. The majority of these credits were for 3 to 6 months and they
were primarily used for small business activities. The average size of a loan was between 15,000 to 50,000
CFA francs (25 to 100 US dollars).        About 75% of these loans were obtained by women.           Under
subcomponent 2, the Social Fund financed the preparation of 1,585 feasibility studies for different types of
micro-projects, 548 of which were funded subsequently by external sources for a total amount of 415.6
million CFA francs (about 700,000 US dollars). Under subcomponent 3, the Social Fund project provided
technical assistance and matching grants to 88 SFDIs for a total of 89.5 million CFA francs (about
150,000 US dollars). An average size of matching grants awarded to SFDIs was between 300,000 to 1.5
million CFA francs (about 500 to 3,000 US dollars).

Component 3. Capacity building. This component primarily addressed capacity building at the grass-root
and intermediary levels in order to enable individuals, local communities and intermediary NGOs to
implement Social Fund activities. Capacity building for Component 1 included training sessions on the
identification of infrastructure micro-projects, preparation of budget and funding proposals, project
implementation, local procurement, and M&E. For Component 2, the Social Fund provided training
sessions on financial intermediation, preparation of project feasibility studies, and institutional
strengthening of informal savings and credit groups. Training included peer visits and this was effective
given the low level of literacy and hence importance of oral exchanges. Overall, during the life of the
project, the Social Fund conducted 744 different capacity building activities (475 at community levels, 165
with NGOs and 104 with individuals).

Component 4. Institutional strengthening of AGeFIB. The Social Fund Project was implemented by
AGeFIB, an autonomous agency created in October 1997 with the legal status of an NGO. The Social
Fund financed operating expenses of AGeFIB for project implementation, management and supervision.
AGeFIB had six offices - the main office in Cotonou and five regional offices, and during its full-time
operations the agency employed 55 people (15 in its headquarters in Cotonou and 40 in its five regional
offices). AGeFIB professional staff was selected through a competitive process. AGeFIB activities were
decentralized to regional offices, which allowed the agency to work more closely with communities and to
respond to their inquiries on a timely manner. The staff of AGeFIB provided much of the capacity building
training under Component 3.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was not subjected to NPV/ERR analysis.            A study carried out for the midterm review
concluded that AGeFIB-funded infrastructure based on its per square meter cost was, in average, 20
percent less expensive than similar infrastructure of comparable quality built by the government and other
development agencies in Benin. The study quoted the average per square meter cost of school modules and



                                                      - 6 -

health centers at 35,000 CFA francs, and of markets, shops and storage facilities at 10,000 CFA francs. A
social funds assessment study conducted by OED concluded that the cost of AGeFIB-funded 3 classroom
school module at 10 million CFA francs was at least 20 percent less expensive than similar infrastructure
built by PAGER (AfDB-funded), PAMR (WB-funded) and AGDSD (a semi-autonomous agency).

The operating expenses of AGeFIB were 24% of total spending which was higher than the 20% rate
envisaged in the PAD. The main reason for the increase of overhead costs was the opening of an
additional, the fifth, regional office of AGeFIB in Lokossa, the regional center of Mono. The new office
was established in response to the request of Government of Benin to facilitate access to Social Fund
activities for the population of Mono. According to the recent Poverty Assessment, Mono is one of the
poorest and most densely populated regions of the country.

Though the NGO subcontracting is an important part of many CDD type projects and sometimes NGOs
are the only advisory service available to communities, such intermediation may contribute to an increase
in the share of funds devoted to preparation and implementation of micro-projects. In case of the social
fund project in Benin, for instance, about 14 percent of IDA funds were spent on the intermediation by
NGOs. There are several possible ways to decrease these overhead expenses: (i) since the cost of project
preparation by NGOs is an operating expense, it can be included in the total amount of funds transferred to
local communities; (ii) in general, communities can reduce the overhead cost by preparing projects
themselves using technical capacity at a commune or community level, but in the case of Benin such
capacity, unfortunately, does not exist; and (iii) the current rate of 20 percent paid to NGOs for a project
preparation and supervision under Component 1 can be reduced to 12-15% depending on the complexity of
subprojects, location and other factors.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of Benin Social Fund was substantial. During its more than six-year
operation (one year of pilot and five years of project), AGeFIB, the implementing agency of the Social
Fund project, proved itself as an efficient and dynamic business entity. The independent nature of AGeFIB
combined with high competence of its leadership and the staff allowed the agency to have a good start and
to scale-up its operations quickly throughout the country. Throughout the life of the project, the agency
maintained good working relations with central and local governments and actively collaborated with other
NGOs and projects, including the WB-funded PAMR project. High community participation in Social
Fund activities allowed to strengthen the community-based development in the country in-line with the
decentralization process initiated by the Government in 1999. However, with local elections held in 2002
and the establishment of city councils in 2003, the decentralization process in Benin is still in its early
stages.

In addition to Social Fund components, AGeFIB successfully implemented activities under the JSD grant
on child protection and a PHRD implementation grant on monitoring and evaluation. Because of its
reputation for efficiency and good management, AGeFIB was also asked to manage part of the MAP funds
as well as the Benin Diaspora Fund (Le Fonds des Beninois de l'Exterieur). The staff of AGeFIB is also
providing significant support for the preparation of the Bank's Benin National CDD project.

The Social Fund project had a positive impact at the institutional development of all levels of government.
As one of the first CDD projects in Benin, the Social Fund brought together all its national counterparts,
from central government to sectoral ministries, deconcentrated sectoral departments and local communities,



                                                     - 7 -

to work together on project selection, design and implementation so that the whole process is
well-understood and accepted by all sides. All subprojects financed by the Social Fund had to be approved
by representatives of sectoral ministries in regions, and, in order to assure sustainability of subprojects,
every new social infrastructure was included in the sectoral ministries' planning for additional staff,
equipment and materials.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of government that affected implementation and outcome
except the fact that it took several months to obtain the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement
by the National Assembly. This delay, unfortunately quite typical for Benin, led to a late start of the
project, which became effective on April 12, 1999, almost ten months after the Development Credit
Agreement was signed on June 22, 1998.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government was highly supportive of Benin Social Fund activities. The Ministry of Plan, Economic
Restructuring and Employment Promotion, the Government counterpart for the project, provided overall
coordination to the project without direct interference into AGeFIB's everyday activities. Like most other
World Bank projects, however, the Social Fund experienced difficulties with raising government's
counterpart funds. By the end of the project, the government counterpart funds (including community
contributions) amounted to 1,315 million CFA francs, or about 65 % of the sum originally envisaged in the
PAD. Nevertheless, throughout the project life the Government maintained the required minimum amount
specified in the Development Credit Agreement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
 Based on the lessons learned during the pilot stage, AGeFIB implemented the new project cycle providing
a clear standard of operation, facilitating the decentralization of the project approval process. In order to
secure local government and sectoral (education, health, water and sanitation) involvement in Social Fund
activities, AGeFIB enforced a requirement that each social infrastructure project had to be approved by
local governments and sector specialists. The agency was flexible and responded quickly to the needs of
communities.      According to the Government's project completion report, for instance, this
learning-by-doing approach allowed AGeFIB to reduce the school project implementation time from 12
months in 1999 to 4 months in late 2000.

The financial management of the project was effective, and technical audits were regularly conducted by an
independent agency.       Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) mechanisms included several performance
indicators, such as quick disbursement of funds, timely processing of funding requests, gender-focused
results, and ensuring sustainability of subprojects. While overall M&E of Social Fund activities was
satisfactory, this process was slow and time consuming because AGeFIB did not have a functional
management information system (MIS) until late 2002. After continued delays caused by selection of
incompetent contractors and/or outdated software, AGeFIB finally installed its latest MIS software in the
headquarters and the five regional offices in November 2002. Though still experiencing some minor
technical problems, the new software was fully functional by the end of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Costs by components. Benin Social Fund Project received 10,887 million CFA francs (US$ 16.7 million)
of the IDA credit along with counterpart funds of 1,315 million CFA francs (government plus
communities). The actual spending by component was different than envisaged in the PAD (Annex 2).



                                                     - 8 -

Component 1 (socioeconomic infrastructure) received the largest share of the funds - 63% (versus 46% in
PAD), with allocations among other components being the following: component 2 (income generation) -
8% (versus 25% in PAD), component 3 (capacity building) - 5% (versus 9% in PAD), and component 4
(project management) - 24% (versus 20% in PAD). The implementation phase showed that the demand for
social infrastructure in Benin was higher than estimated during the project preparation, so responding to
this high demand and in-line with the Government's policy priority on provision of improved basic social
services, the Social Fund allocated more funds for component 1. As mentioned in Section 4.3, the project
was cost-effective in terms of building basic infrastructure, but it had higher operating costs than originally
planned in PAD.

Financing. Despite a delay with becoming effective (see Section 5.1), the project had high disbursement
rates, with annual disbursements exceeding the target figures and with more than 50 percent of the loan
disbursed in the first three years. The project experienced a shortage of funds at its earlier stages due to
high demands from local communities and because of the low amount specified initially in the Development
Credit Agreement for the special account. This problem was solved by introducing an amendment to the
Development Credit Agreement in April 2001, when the special account limit was increased from 500 to
750 million CFA francs. Nevertheless, disbursements were considerably ahead of schedule throughout the
life of the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability of Benin Social Fund Project is rated likely.

Sustainability of socioeconomic infrastructure: The Social Fund concentrated its sustainability efforts on
the community-driven approach for its sub-projects. The active local participation in the project provided
incentives for local communities to sustain the project outcomes. The impact evaluation study prepared for
the MTR concluded that the majority of social infrastructure financed by the Social Fund were in good
working conditions and fully utilized for the purposes envisaged when the funding was provided.
Preliminary results of the 2003 household survey The MTR study stressed the fact that in terms of
utilization the weakest performance had been with health centers, where staffing and equipment supplies
were weak. As confirmed by the recent Poverty Assessment, unfortunately, low utilization rates of health
facilities are common for Benin. The Government's project completion report concluded that after two
years of the completion of subprojects, 90 percent of management committees were still functioning, and
together with local communities, especially parent-teacher associations, they were very much involved in
making sure that the new or rehabilitated facilities are fully operational and highly utilized.

Sustainability of benefits from microfinance component: Social intermediation between the poor and
formal financial systems provided individuals (especially women) and savings groups with knowledge and
skills that enabled them to have access to credit and to expand their income-generating activities. As
emphasized in the midterm evaluation study, high loan repayment rates of the small loans suggest that the
participants utilized the money for economically and financially sound activities. To the extent to which
beneficiaries have kept their account operating, their knowledge is sustained. Financial grants by the Social
Fund allowed the informal savings groups (SFDIs) to formalize activities, improve operations, increase
outreach, and provide cheaper loans. This, in turn, has greatly increased the sustainability of beneficiary
SFDIs, all of which were in full operation at project closing. However, the lack of liquidity in remote and
rural areas in Benin remains a critical issue for the sustainability of this component and has to be addressed
in the upcoming National CDD project (see Section 6.2).




                                                      - 9 -

Sustainability of the CDD approach and AGeFIB:            The Social Fund played an important role in
introducing community-based development in Benin. The project approach to delegate subproject financing
and contracting of works to local communities is recognized as best practice. The project made significant
supervision and training efforts to ensure that communities have the support they need to make sound
financial and technical decisions. Through the life of the project AGeFIB, as an entity, proved itself as a
reliable partner.   Professionalism and competence of its staff is recognized and respected by the
Government, other NGOs, local communities and other donors, and the agency has been asked to
implement several other developmental projects in Benin (see Section 4.5). All these qualities together
create conditions for the agency's sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Social Fund project has made an important contribution to community-based development in Benin.
Along with two other Bank projects in Benin that also employed the CDD approach, the Social Fund
provided a basis for the decentralization process currently underway in the country. Activities started
under the Social Fund project are included in the country's PRSC process and will be also continued in the
Benin National CDD Project currently under preparation by the Government and the World Bank.
Addressing a concern expressed in a recent OED study on CDD about re-examining the logic for having
both a social fund project and a CDD project in the same country at the same time, the new project is a
consolidated CDD operation in Benin, which would help transfer roles and responsibilities for
community-based services to newly created local governments known as communes. Recognizing current
weak institutional and administrative capacity at decentralized levels, one of the main objectives of the
proposed National CDD Project would be to build the capacity of communities and communes to plan,
implement, support and monitor community-based services. AGeFIB will become a Societe anonyme
(Limited Liability Company, LLC) and will continue to provide similar services for project implementation
in support of communes.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The performance of the Bank at lending is rated satisfactory. The Social Fund Project was prepared in
response to the Government's request to help with the implementation of the Social Dimension of
Development Program adopted in 1992. The project objectives were and remain consistent with the
Government's development strategy and the Bank's country strategy.        Good progress with the initial
PHRD-funded pilot project in 1997 helped set the scene, test the relatively new community-based
development approach and the institutional set-up in Benin as well as inform local communities and
national counterparts about the purpose of the Social Fund and its planned activities. During the project
preparation the Bank was aware of the fact that the country lacked capacity at the community level for
designing and implementing sub-projects and that government and nongovernmental organizations were
also not in a position to assist communities in these activities. Benin had always relied on a top-down
approach in the public sector and the country lacked access to financial resources. The Bank team
considered several options for the project design, including provision of social infrastructure through
sectoral ministries. However, given the weak implementation capacity of sectoral ministries this option
was not adopted, and the decision was made to create an independent non-profit association to allow
maximum flexibility and autonomy from political pressure.

The project design was first discussed at the Concept Review meeting in August 1995 and project
preparation began in November 1996. The project was appraised in May 1997, negotiations took place in
April 1998, and the Bank Board approval was received in May 1998. The signing ceremony was held on


                                                   - 10 -

June 22, 1998, and the project became effective on April 12, 1999. As mentioned previously, a long delay
between the signing and effectiveness of the project was due to the late ratification of the Development
Credit Agreement by the National Assembly. The design of Component 2 was considered best practice and
included on the Bank microfinance website, as well as featured on Social Funds Innovation Update in
March 2002.

7.2 Supervision:

The performance of the Bank at supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions took place on a
regular basis, and the Bank team provided continued and consistent technical and operational support to the
project. Annual reviews were carried out with the borrower, and annual supervision missions were carried
out on a regular basis. Financial assessments were carried out periodically, showing an adequate financial
management system. There was complete continuity in the supervision of the projects. Even if the Bank
task leader was changed twice during the life of the project, each new TTL had been involved in the project
for many years so changes in leadership did not affect the quality of supervision. The project was
supervised by a combination of headquarters and national staff, and for the last six month the project had a
field-based team leader.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.          The Bank was pro-active during the project
preparation and worked closely with the Government team on the project design. During supervision, the
Bank also took necessary actions to ensure smooth implementation. In order to provide enough funds for
project operations, in early 2001 the Bank and the Government amended the Development Credit
Agreement to increase the special account ceiling from 500 to 750 million CFA francs. Bank supervision
missions took place on regular bases and the Government and AGeFIB praised the efficient support of the
Bank team during the life of the project. A PHRD grant was obtained to provide additional support to
AGeFIB and strengthen its M&E functions.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government's performance at preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government was pro-active in
initiating the project as part of its Social Dimension of Development Program adopted in 1992. The project
design was developed to meet the Government's objectives for improved provision of basic social services,
community empowerment and promoting community-based development. Political support for the project
was very high, especially in the aftermath of the April 1996 presidential elections. The Government
participated very actively in the pilot project as well as in the creation of AGeFIB and the selection of its
Director General. Government officials showed great interest in getting the social fund operating and
provided considerable assistance in pushing through the required administrative arrangements, including the
acceptance of transferring 100% of the project funds to a non-government agency for implementation.
First subprojects financed and built during the pilot project were inaugurated by the Minister of Plan,
Economic Restructuring and Employment Promotion.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout the life of the project the
Government remained committed to Social Fund Project objectives and provided necessary support for its



                                                     - 11 -

efficient implementation.     The Government conducted overall supervision of AGeFIB without direct
interference into its everyday activities. Government counterpart funds for the project were included in the
national budget each year, but were difficult to mobilize in practice because of an overall shortage of tax
revenues and due to typically slow tax collection in the first and last quarters of every year, with the
government treasury being unable to make any major payments for several months. The total amount of
counterpart funds received by the end of the project was about 30 percent less than the amount agreed in
the PAD.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The overall performance of AGeFIB, the implementing agency for the Social Fund project, is rated
satisfactory. Equipped with competent and efficient staff, AGeFIB quickly proved itself as an important
development partner with the Government and among other donor agencies. The agency was overseen by a
Board of Directors, composed of two representatives of the government, two representatives of NGOs, two
representatives of beneficiaries and one representative of civil society at large (a "moral" figure). During
the life of the project, AGeFIB managed more than 800 socioeconomic subprojects in 475 communities and
supervised the work of more than 40 NGOs. It succeeded in strengthening the organizational capacity of
local communities to plan and implement their own development projects. Resources available to the
project were disbursed in a cost-effective and timely manner.

AGeFIB operated in a transparent manner, setting an example for other agencies. For example, it posted
outside its offices the list of candidates for different positions and the selections made. AGeFIB was
flexible to react quickly to improve its procedures midcourse based on feedback from local communities or
an outside audit. Responding to MTR recommendations, for instance, AGeFIB conducted a thorough
evaluation of all contracted NGOs and fired a group of NGOs performing poorly (see Section 4.1).
According to a review of World Bank-financed CDD projects in Benin, in November 1999 in response to a
village complaint that AGeFIB was taking too long in replenishing subproject accounts and leading to
project delays, the agency changed its financing rules so that if a project was progressing smoothly, money
could be deposited in two, rather than the original three, tranches.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Government is rated satisfactory. Throughout the life of the project
officials of the Ministry in charge of Plan and other sectoral ministries met regularly with supervision
teams of the Bank and provided valuable inputs into the project supervision. This close collaboration
between the Government and the Bank allowed both sides to draw important lessons from the Social Fund
and to integrate these lessons into the preparation of Benin National CDD Project. Given the successful
implementation of several CDD projects in Benin, including the Social Fund project, the Government has
embraced the community-driven development as one of the main instruments for implementing its national
decentralization and sectoral deconcentration plans.

8. Lessons Learned

Some of the key lessons learned from the Social Fund project may be summarized as follows:

l The CDD approach is effective in delivery of basic social services. Active participation of local
    communities in the identification, design and implementation of micro-projects as well as cost-sharing
    arrangements with local communities increases the sense of community ownership and provides a good
    base for sustainability of Social Fund financed projects. For many local communities, activities under



                                                     - 12 -

  the Social Fund were their first community-based and community-driven experience. The success of
  the Social Fund in the decentralized delivery of social services proved that the CDD approach is valid
  on a large scale, and it enabled the Government of Benin to consider adopting a national CDD strategy.



l Promising approach to CDD and microfinance. Not subsidizing credit but improving access of the
  poor to already existing financial services is important. Financial intermediation produces better
  results if it focuses more on a group of individuals (especially women) united by a common economic
  or social activity rather than a person alone. In addition to grants, support for income-generating
  activities may be accompanied by technical assistance on development of new economic activities and
  job-creation in the community.       Micro-finance intermediation can apply different approaches to
  different target groups: (i) for groups that are economically better-off but have limited access to
  financial institutions (because of a remote location or a lack of funds in banks or formal savings and
  credit groups), intermediation should include strengthening capacity of existing formal financial
  institutions to reach these groups; and (ii) for groups that are too poor, social intermediation may focus
  on capacity building, including technical assistance to informal saving and credit groups, strengthening
  their working capital, and linking these groups to the formal financial system. Intermediation at both
  levels should include long-term M&E mechanisms to ensure sustainability.

l The pilot project preceding the Social Fund was very important for the success of the main
  project. The pilot project allowed the Government and Bank teams to identify bottlenecks, refine the
  sub-project cycle and improve the institutional set-up. By the start of the Social Fund project, many
  local communities were already well informed about the project's activities. This situation led to a
  large number of funding requests being submitted to AGeFIB early in the project and to high
  disbursement rates of the credit.

l Capacity building should start first. The Social Fund experience showed that the capacity building
  component can deliver better results if it precedes other components. The main purpose of the capacity
  building component was to train individuals and local communities for CDD and other Social Fund
  activities, and to do so the project design and its timing should envisage an early start for the capacity
  building component. In the case of Benin Social Fund, the pilot phase was able to satisfy part of this
  need.

l Cost-effectiveness of intensive NGO accompaniment has to be better assessed.                 While NGOs
  assistance to weak communities is a strength, a high cost of such intermediation reduces the number of
  communities eventually served.

l Decentralized project implementation is a key to success.              In a country at early stages of
  decentralization, like in Benin, setting up regional offices, while increasing overhead costs was
  nevertheless effective at strengthening local consultation processes with weak local governments and
  deconcentrated services of line ministries. Proving the case of local management of resources in terms
  of cost savings, quality and the capacity of community groups to manage small-scale infrastructure
  investments is often necessary in terms of supporting the Government to take up national CDD
  policies. Also, solid collaboration with deconcentrated structures at local level can be an effective way
  of avoiding duplication.




                                                   - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is an extract from the Borrower's project completion report:

The Social Fund's objectives were consistent with the Government's priority on poverty reduction, and the
participatory approach used by the project contributed to community empowerment in the country by
ensuring an active participation of local communities in project selection, design and implementation. The
pilot phase allowed the project to have a quick start and to scale-up fast across the country, and creation of
AGeFIB with its decentralized satellite offices played an important role in reaching the remote and most
vulnerable areas of the country.

Throughout the life of the project, AGeFIB's Board of Directors held regular sessions to review the
project's activities, including its budget execution. Creation of management committees to oversee
subprojects from the beginning to the end strengthened the community ownership of subprojects and gave
local communities incentives to find the most effective ways to implement them. As more subprojects were
selected, designed and implemented, AGeFIB was also able to learn from its own experience and became
more efficient in project management. In 1999, for instance, it took AGeFIB about 12 months to complete
a three-class school module, while this cycle was reduced to about four months by late 2000. The
intermediary role of NGOs was crucial in the success of the Social Fund because it allowed poor and
remote communities with mostly illiterate population to benefit from the project activities. NGO's social
intermediation was also important for enabling the poor, mostly women, access the formal financial sector
though liquidity constraints of the sector did not allow these individuals to fully benefit and to expend their
economic activities.

Among the lessons learnt are that (i) noninterference of the Government in everyday activities of the
implementing agency is crucial for fast and efficient implementation of the project; (ii) delegation of clear
decentralized responsibilities to satellite offices for reviewing subproject funding requests, their approval
and supervision was crucial for AGeFIB's success in implementing the project; and (iii) deconcentrated
government structures and newly created communes need training and capacity building to enable them to
select, design and implement subprojects within their development plans.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of people (by gender) with access to                                     Total: 89,572. Female: 49,279. Male: 40,293
improved services: schools, clinics, water
points, storage facilities.
Number of communities/NGOs using new                                            Communities: 475. NGOs: 60
capacities for self-help.
Number of people (by gender) with increased                                     Total: 100,530. Female: 76,440. Male:
or more stable income due to credit or                                          24,090
improved infrastructure.




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
600 communities have one socio-economic     600                                 830
infrastructure project
% of community maintenance committees are 70%                                   90%
functioning after two years
Savings groups receiving finance due to     2000                                12,797
project activities
% of group members are women                At least 50%                        80%
NGOs/Communities with improved capacity     500                                 640
for needs assessment and planning

1End of project




                                                             - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate           Estimate            Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million       US$ million
1. Small Socio-Economic Infrastructures                             7.70               10.76               139.74
2. Support to Income-Generating Activities                          4.20                1.45                 34.52
3. Capacity Building                                                1.60                0.76                  47.5
4. Project Management                                               3.60                4.15               115.28

Total Baseline Cost                                               17.10                17.12
 Physical Contingencies                                             1.30
 Price Contingencies                                                2.10
                          Total Project Costs                     20.50                17.12
                   Total Financing Required                       20.50                17.12
Due to the devaluation of the US Dollar, the total percentage disbursed in this table does not reflect reality.
As of December 31, 2003 a total of 99.90% of the inital credit were disbursed.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             NCB           Community          Other   a        N.B.F.   b         TOTAL
                                                   Participation
A. Civil works: Construction         0.09                                                                    0.09
or rehabilitation of regional       (0.08)                                                                  (0.08)
offices
B. Goods: Equipment, Vehicles        0.41                              0.10                                  0.51
and furniture for central &         (0.32)                            (0.10)                                (0.42)
reginal offices
C. Grants for sub-projects                             7.50                                                  7.50
                                                      (5.50)                                                (5.50)
D. Matching grants                                                     1.20              1.20                2.40
                                                                      (1.20)                                (1.20)
E. Consltants' services,                               1.80            6.50                                  8.30
audits, training and studies                          (1.80)          (6.50)                                (8.30)
F. Operating costs    c                                                1.40              0.30                1.70
                                                                      (1.20)                                (1.20)
Total                                0.50              9.30            9.20              1.50               20.50
                                    (0.40)            (7.30)          (9.00)                               (16.70)




                                                   - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category            NCB         Community        Other  a        N.B.F.b      TOTAL
                                                   Participation
    A. Civil works: Construction        0.09                          0.05                           0.14
    or rehabilitation of regional      (0.09)                         (0.04)                        (0.13)
    offices
    B. Goods: Equipment, Vehicles       0.14                          0.45                           0.59
    and furniture for central &        (0.12)                         (0.39)                        (0.51)
    reginal offices
    C. Grants for sub-projects                         9.97                                          9.97
                                                       (8.97)                                       (8.97)
    D. Matching grants                                                0.42                           0.42
                                                                      (0.27)                        (0.27)
    E. Consltants' services,                                          4.62                           4.62
    audits, training and studies                                      (4.62)                        (4.62)
    F. Operating costs    c                                           1.38                           1.38
                                                                      (1.18)                        (1.18)
    Total                                                                                           17.12
                                                                                                    (15.68)

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank     Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank  Govt.   CoF.
1. Small Socio-Economic       7.30     1.34        0.67      9.91       0.00       0.85    135.8  0.0    126.9
Infrastructure
2. Support to                 3.82     0.00        1.22      1.31       0.00       0.14    34.3   0.0     11.5
Income-Generating
Activities
3. Capacity Building          1.87     0.00        0.00      0.76       0.00       0.00    40.6   0.0     0.0
4. Project Management         3.65     0.63        0.00      3.70       0.45       0.00    101.4  71.4    0.0




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/27/95                   3    TTL (1); CONSULTANT -
                                             PROCED. MANUAL (1);
                                             CONSULTANT -
                                             MICRO-FINANCE (1)
              6/3/96                    4    TTL (1); CONSULTANT -
                                             PROCED. MANUAL (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
                                             MICRO-FINANCE,
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              12/8/97                   2    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/20/97                   9    TTL (1); OPER. ANALYST
                                             (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2); ACS (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - PROCED.
                                             MANUAL (1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              7/21/97                   5    TTL (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST -
                                             MICRO-FINANCE (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - PROCED.
                                             MANUAL (1)
              7/1/98                    4    TTL (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST -
                                             MICRO-FINANCE (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - PROCED.
                                             MANUAL (1)

 Supervision
              11/24/98                  4    TTL (1); SOCIOLOGIST             S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST -
                                             MICRO-FINANCE (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - PROCED.
                                             MANUAL (1)
              12/03/1999                3    TTL (1); CONSULTANT -            S               S
                                             INST. DEV (1); CONSULTANT
                                             - PROCED. MANUAL (1);
              06/29/2000                5    TTL (1); SOCIAL                  S               S
                                             PROTECTION (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION (1);
                                             MICROCREDIT (1); MIS (1)
              11/01/2001                2    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S



                                              - 19 -

                                            OFFICER (1)
               07/01/2002              8    TTL (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                                            (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION (2);
                                            FSM (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                            ANALYST (1);
                                            IMPLEMENTATION (1);
                                            MICROFINANCE (1)
               04/16/2003              2    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)           S    S
               10/4/03                 4    TTL (1); FMS (1),                 S    S
                                            DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1)

 ICR
               1/28/04                5     TTL (1); SR. HEALTH               S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT
                                            ANALYST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               55                        135.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 40.7                           86.3
  Supervision                          101.3                         254.9
  ICR                                     3.8                           5.2
  Total                                200.8                         482.2




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


No  Name of the study                                                       Period Author
1  An impact evaluation of AGeFIB's approaches and actions, in French       2001   LIFAD
   (Evaluation d'impact des approches et actions de l'AGeFIB)
2  An audit of functionality of community infrastructure, in French (Audit  2001   Michel-Arthur
   sur la fonctionnalité des infrastructures communautaires)                       TEVOEDJRE
3  A technical audit of AGeFIB activities, in French (Audit technique des   2001   COFIMA
   activités de l'AGeFIB)                                                          CACOGEC
4  Preliminary results of the Benin Social Fund impact evaluation study     2004   Harold COULOMBE
   (Annex 8)
5  Strengths and weaknesses of financial systems to support women's         2002   Bonaventure
   activities in rural and semi-urban areas, in French (Etudes des forces          D'OLIVEIRA
   et faiblesses des systèmes de financement des activités des femmes en
   zones rurales et péri-urbaines et stratégies d'amélioration)
6  An environmental impact evaluation of the Social Fund Project of         2002   Maman-sani ISSA
   AGeFIB, in French (Evaluation d'impact environnemental des actions
   du Projet Fonds Social de l'AGeFIB)
 7 The AGeFIB's role in future decentralization projects in Benin, in       2002   Cabinet LIFAD
   French (Projet d'études et de recherches pour l'élaboration d'un
   document de projet pour l'intervention de l'AGeFIB dans les futures
   communes en tenant compte des lois et actes visant la décentralisation
   au Bénin)
8  An environmental evaluation of the second phase of the Social Fund       2003   Maman-sani ISSA
   Project, in French (Evaluation environnementale initiale à la seconde
   phase du Projet Fonds Social de l'AGeFIB)
9  A qualitative survey of focus groups, in French (Enquête qualitative par 2003   Elvire
   focus group)                                                                    AHOUNOU-HOUENA
                                                                                   SSOU
10 Component 2: a follow-up report, in French (Rapport de suivi de la       2002   HORUS
   composante 2 de l'AGeFIB)
11 Qualitative evaluation of gender impacts in the Benin Social Fund        2002   Wendy Walker
   Project
12 Community-Driven Development: Lessons from the Sahel, An                 2003   OED,
   Analytical Review                                                               The World Bank
13 Social Funds: Assessing Effectiveness                                    2002   OED, The World Bank
14 Evaluating Social Funds                                                  2004   HDN,
                                                                                   The World Bank
15 Review of World-Bank Financed Community Driven Projects                         HDN,
                                                                                   The World Bank
16 A summary of community-driven development actions in Benin, in           2002   P. Langley, CIDA
   French (Le développement dirige par les communautés: Un bilan
   sommaire des actions menés au Bénin)
17  The Government of Benin Project Completion Report for the Social        2004   Government of Benin
    Fund, in French (Rapport d'Achevement du Projet Fonds Social)




                                                     - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Benin Social Fund Impact Evaluation Study (Preliminary results)

To be able to evaluate the effect of the school component of the AGeFIB, we need to define a treatment
group and a control group. The treatment group includes households links to 36 AGeFIB school, while the
control group is composed of around 108 clusters (villages) having a non-AGeFIB school.

The construction of the control group has been done Propensity Score Matching (PSM). Usually, the
variables used in the PSM regression are variables from the census. Since we do not have access to census
data, only the mean welfare of village has been used in the regression. Nevertheless, the diagnostic tests
are robust. In order to make sure we were controlling other factors, we restrict the control group to rural
villages having a school nearby.

Once we constructed the treatment and control groups, we tested whether the gross and net enrollment rates
were different. The tests were performed by gender as well. Those ATT (Average Treatment on the
Treated) were all significantly different from zero. The results are the following:

ATT Results
                                    Male                    Female                     Total
Gross enrollment                    37.5                     54.6                       46.0
Net enrollment                      28.7                     28.6                       28.8
Source: computation from the AGeFIB CWIQ survey, 2003


l Overall, having an AGeFIB school nearby considerably increases school attendance at primary level;
l Using gross enrollment as indicator, enrollment increases by 46 percentage points overall. Enrollment
    increases much more for girls (54.6%) than boys (37.5%);
l Using net rates, the increase is also fairly impressive at 28.8%. However there is no "gender gap";
l The different gender pattern between the two indicators could be explained as follow: pre-AGeFIB (or
    in the control group) fewer girls go to school than boys. The talks about the importance of education in
    general and of girls in particular accompanying the project help parents to send more of their children
    school, both boys and girls (hence the absence of gender gap in net rates). But it also convinces the
    parents of sending the girls that stayed at home in the past (hence the higher differential in favor of girls
    in gross rates). Those girls were catching up: show up in gross rate only.



                           Gross Enrollment       Gross Enrollment Boys       Gross Enrollment Girls
                                  mean                      mean                       mean
Ecole
Non-AGeFIB                       91.1                      103.8                       81.6
AGeFIB                           134.5                     139.0                      133.8
All                              95.3                      107.3                       86.7




                                                     - 24 -

              Net Enrollment   Net Enrollment Boys Net Enrollment Girls
                  mean                mean                mean
Ecole
Non-AGeFIB        58.7               64.0                 51.0
AGeFIB            86.3               90.2                 79.0
All               61.4               66.6                 53.8




                               - 25 -

- 26 -

