Document of the World Bank
International Development Association
Report No. 16403-BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
April 22, 1998
Human Development III
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 540 (April 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December I
ACRONYMS
AGeFIB        Agency for financing of cornmunity-based initiatives (Agence de Financement des
Initiatives de Base)
AGePIB        Agency for promotion of community-based initiatives (Agence de Promotion des
Initiatives de Base)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CREP          Rural savings and credits associations (Caisse Rurale d'Epargne et de Credit)
FECECAM       Federation of agricultural credits and savings (Federation de caisses d'4pargne et de
credits agricoles mutuels)
GoB           Government of Benin
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Agency
IGIP         Ingenieur-Gesellschaft fur Internationale Planungsaufgaben Gmbh
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau
LOI           Letter of Invitation
MIS           Management Information System
MPREPE        Ministry of Plan, Economic Restructuring and Employment Promotion
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Nongovernmental Organization
PADME         Microenterprise Development Project (Projet d'appui au developpement des
microentreprises)
PCD           Project Concept Document
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SARAR         Strength, Resourcefulness, Action planning and Responsibility for follow-through
SIF           Social Investment Fund
SOE           Statement of expenditure
TOR           Terms of Reference
ZOPP-PPO    Log-frame "Zielorientierte Projektplanung - Planification par objectifs)
|Vice President           Jean-Louis Sarbib
|Country Director         Theodore Ahlers
lTechnical Manager        Helena Ribe
|Task Team Leader         Maurizia Tovo



BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ...............................................................I
Block  1: Project descrilption ................................................................2
1.   Project development objectives ................................................................2
2.   Project components ...............................................................2
3.   Benefits and target population  ................................................................2
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements  ....................................3............................3
Block 2: Project Rationale ................................................................4
5.   CAS objectives supported by the project ...................                             ..............................................4
6.   Main sector issues and Government strategy  ........................                            ........................................4
7.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............................                       ......................4
8.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  ................................................................4
9.   Major related pirojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  ............                                   ..............5
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design . ...............................................................5
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................................                        5
12. Value added of Bank support ................................................................5
Block 3: Summary Project Assessment .................................................................6
13. Economic Assessment ...............................................................6
14. Financial Assessment ...............................................................6
15. Technical Assessment ................................................................6
16. Institutional Assessment ................................................................6
17.  Social Assessment ................................................................6
18   Environmental Assessment .................................................................6
19. Participatory Approach ................................................................7
20.  Sustainability ................................................................7
21. Critical Risks ...............................................................7
22. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................8
Block 4: Main Credit Conditions .................................................................8
23. Effectiveness Conditions .................................................................8
24. Other ................................................................8
Block 5: Compliance with  Bank Policies ................................................................8
List of Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:   Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5:   Financial Summary
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:   Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:   Benin at a glance



Benin Social Fund
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
CD 13
Project Appraisal Document
Benin
Social Fund Project
Date: 04/22/98                                                              []  Draft       [X] Final
Task Manager: Maurizia Tovo                              Country Manager: Theodore Ahlers
Project ID: 35645                                        Sector: Social
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan             PTI:       [X] Yes             [ ] No
Project Financing Data                   []  Loan      [x ] Credit       [   Guarantee    [    Other (Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$16.7 million/SDR 12.4 million
Proposed Terms:                            [xl  Multicurrency       []  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10           []   Standard Variable    []  Fixed             []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: NA
Service charge: .75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                     Local                Foreign            Total
Government (including communities)                              3.9                   -                 3.9
Cofinanciers
IBRD/IDA                                                       16.3                  0.4               16.7
Other (specify)
Borrower: Government of Benin
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Plan, Economic Restructuring and Employment Promotion
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1999        2000        2001        2002         2003     2004
Annual     1.1         2.8          3.8          4.2         3.5      1.3
Cumulative     1.1         3.9          7.7         11.9        15.4    16.7
For Guarantees: NA                                  [    Partial Credit     [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Finall maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                 [     Yes                [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: 30 October 1998                         Closing date: 31 December 2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 2
Country: Benin                                                                                         Project Title: Social Fund
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
A. Improved access to basic social services: Indicator: # of people (by gender) with access to improved services: schools, clinics,
water points, storage facilities.
B. Community empowerment: Indicator: # of communities/NGOs using new capacities for self-help.
C. Increased income-generation by the poor: Indicator: # of people (by gender) with increased or more stable income due to credit or
improved infrastructure
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                                  Category                 Cost Incl. Contingencies    % of Total
(US$M)
A. Socio-economic infrastructure:                    Physical                                    9.3                46
Financing of small socio-economic infrastructure
(e.g., rehabilitation or extension of elementary
schools and health centers, installation of water
points, construction of latrines, repair of bridges,
markets, etc.).
B. Income generation:                                Institution Building and Other              5.1                25
Support to income-generating activities in low-
income groups by facilitating access to formal
financial intermediation and by providing
assistance to informal financial intermediaries,
especially those reaching out to women, in the
form of institution building grants and matching
grants.
C. Capacity building:                                Institution Building                        1.9                 9
Capacity building and social capital development,
primarily at the grass-root and the intermediary
level (NGOs), through a variety of means (e.g.,
information, training and short-term technical
assistance) to equip beneficiaries with
organizational, managerial and strategic skills.
D. Institutional strengthening of AGeFIB:            Institution Building and project            4.2                20
Operating expenditures for project                   management
implementation, management and
supervision.
Total             20.5               100
3. Benefits and target population
The project will contribute to the Government's poverty reduction program by providing essential basic assets and services to poor
communities. Local communities and grassroot groups (especially women) will be empowered by learning how to organize, analyze
their needs, identify and evaluate feasible solutions, design sub-projects to put into practice such solutions, and manage their
implementation. Social intermediation between such groups and formal financial institutions, and assistance to informal financial
institutions will improve the poor's access to financial services, thus helping them increase or at least stabilize their incomes.
Traditional financial systems will be strengthened and be able to improve and expand their operations. Intermediary NGOs, the
primary interlocutors between the agency and the communities, will improve both their internal functioning and their effectiveness
with their clients. This strengthening of the capacity of NGOs, small local contractors, local government structures and other
facilitators of community development will support decentralization and participatory development. The target population will
include poor rural and peri-urban communities, with a special focus on women and unemployed youth.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 3
Country: Benin                                                                                     Project Title: Social Fund
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
o Implementation period: 5 years.
* Executing agencies: AGeFI13, a not-for-profit association serving the public interest (association a but non lucratifreconnue
d 'utilite publique), created in October 1997 to manage the social fund.
* Project coordination: Project coordination will be the primary responsibility of the Director of AGeFIB and coordinators for each
project component. To ensure coordination at the sectoral level, the Operating Manual requires clearance from the relevant
ministry for each sub-project. In addition, each sectoral ministry has nominated contact persons who will be available to provide
guidance to AGeFIB staff on matters relating to sectoral policies and approaches so as to harmonize interventions, avoid wastage
and maximize synergies. Clearance procedures and standard criteria have been agreed with the individual ministries.
* Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): AGeFIB is under the nominal responsibility (tutelle) of the MPREPE. It has an elected
Board of Directors, comprising 2 representing NGOs, 2 representing potential beneficiaries of the agency, I representing the civil
society and 2 representing the Government. The Board of Directors may, in turn, avail itself of the advice of selected experts as
the occasion arises.
* Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements: AGeFIB will have at least one full-time accountant for monitoring
execution of contracts with intermediaries and communities, as well as the agency financial management and accounting system;
in addition, each departmental office will have a junior accountant. Accountants will be provided with any additional necessary
training through the capacity-building component, and the Resident Mission will be available for trouble-shooting and occasional
monitoring (this is already happening during the pilot phase). Specialized software to manage the project accounts and to
monitor sub-project disbursements have been purchased during the pilot phase, and AGeFIB staff trained in their use.
Intermediary NGOs and community groups will have access to appropriate training in financial management through the
capacity-building component. Audit reports should be produced for each component, covering the use of SOEs, management of
special accounts and other matters. Given the extensive reliance on SOEs, special attention will be paid in verifying their
reliability, and to the internal procedures and controls involved in their prevaration.
* Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring is an integral part of each sub-project implementation, as disbursements of
tranches for each sub-project are contingent on performance monitoring by the NGOs acting as intermediaries and by project
staff. Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms are built into the AGeFIB information system, a computer software especially
designed for social funds. Data on key indicators (in terms of both process and outputs) will be generated quarterly and reviewed
by project and Bank staff. The following performance indicators were agreed at negotiations: (a) timely disbursement of
counterpart funds; (b) 90 percent of dossiers processed within the time period specified in the Operating Manual; (c) not more
than 20 percent of project costs going to administrative expenses; (d) 80 percent of social infrastructure, such as primary schools
and dispensaries, has the necessary personnel and materials needed to operate properly; (e) 50 percent of the beneficiaries are
women; (f) 90 percent of the beneficiaries are members of the target groups, as defined in the Operating Manual; and (g) 70
percent of the maintenance plans relating to sub-projects under Component I of the Project, are being satisfactorily implemented
two years after the sub-projects are completed. Regularly scheduled supervision missions will provide close monitoring as will
an annual progress review. A mid-term evaluation conducted jointly by the government of Benin and the donors will examine
issues not captured in the AGeFIB information system, such as indirect impacts and qualitative changes. AGeFIB's pilot research
program will allow for beneficiary assessments of individual sub-projects as well as the examination of impact issues concerning
more than one sub-project. Progress reports on project implementation and outcomes will be prepared twice a year. An
implementation completion report will be prepared within six months of the Credit closing, with the government of Benin's
contribution included.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 4
Country: Benin                                                                                     Project Title: Social Fund
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project   Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: P-6308-BEN 5/11/94
This project supports the CAS objective of providing technical and financial support to the government's development strategy which
includes the promotion of community-based development and of employment. In addition, the project addresses the CAS objective to
"promote women's participation in economic activities."
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government of Benin is aware of the precarious situation in which the lower socio-economic strata find themselves and of the
need for targeted interventions if they are to be full partners in the country's development. As a result, a Social Dimension of
Development program was adopted in 1992. In June 1994, the Government presented to the donor community a strategy comprising
four elements: (a) strengthening the national capacity to formulate and implement social policies, (b) monitoring the living conditions
of vulnerable groups, (c) promoting community-based development through sub-projects, and (d) promoting employment. While
substantial donor assistance was pledged for the first, second and fourth component, the Government of Benin specifically requested
World Bank assistance to fund the third component through a project establishing a social fund. Following elections in 1996, the new
Government has launched a National Employment Program which takes as a departure point the imperative of ensuring access to the
basic social needs (Minimum Social Commun) of each citizen through the organization of Community Development Units at the
community level.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Constraints to community-based development include lack of capacity at the community level for designing and implementing sub-
projects, lack of capacity among government and non government organizations to assist communities in these activities, a top-down
approach in the public sector, and lack of access to financial resources. By building local capacity for planning, implementing,
monitoring and evaluating sustainable economic and social activities, the project aims at increasing self-reliance, facilitating ongoing
decentralization efforts, and strengthening the civil society. As AGeFIB is a private agency, it is easier for it to foster a bottom-up
approach; simple and rigorous administrative procedures will facilitate communities' access to financial resources. Sub-projects to be
supported under the project will help to increase the poor's access to social services or their income-earning capacity.
Because the project encompasses several sectors, close collaboration with relevant sectoral ministries is being pursued. This means
that, within each sector, the project will support sectoral policies and approaches. In particular, the activities financed by the social
fund will complement ongoing or planned World Bank-supported projects in health, education, rural water supply, transport and
private sector development.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Provision of social infrastructure could be done through sectoral ministries, but their implementation capacity is limited and would
therefore constrain the pace of infrastructure delivery. In addition, by using community participation in the selection,.design and
implementation of the activities, the project helps meet the government objective of increased community empowerment. The
synergistic effect of providing social infrastructure while at the same time increasing community capacity will provide more
sustainable mechanisms for development at the local level. To improve access to financial intermediation, the project could have
provided lines of credit to commercial banks and other formal financial institutions. However, the main obstacle is not a liquidity
shortage within the banking sector but rather the perceived high cost of financial transactions with low-income clients, both from the
point of view of prospective clients and of financial institutions. Hence the choice of providing social intermediation. On the other
hand, it is the informal financial institutions that typically serve the poor, because of their greater outreach capacity and the
characteristics of their products. Hence the emphasis is on assistance to the informal financial sector to improve the quality and scope
of their services.
A number of alternative institutional set-ups were considered for AGeFIB, and one was actually tested whereby the agency was under
the Association for the Social Dimensions of Development. In the end, preference was given to the proposed set-up, i.e., an
independent non-profit association, to allow for autonomy from other existing institutions (both public and private), minimize red-
tape and optimize flexibility.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 5
Country: Benin                                                                                    Project Title: Social Fund
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
World Bank:
Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA): promotes increased food security in 20 districts, pre-selected for their high level of
insecurity, through a combination of nutrition activities, support through NGOs to local development initiatives and institution
building for food-security planning and monitoring. A recently completed implementation review mission reports satisfactory
progress in terms of outreach and disbursement, although better monitoring and improved NGO performance are needed for micro-
credit activities. Ongoing.
Urban Development (AGETUR): supports infrastructure rehabilitation and environmental sanitation in the country's two largest cities,
following approaches which optimize the impact of public works on the employment and income of the urban poor, promote the
development of local small and medium-sized private enterprises and involve NGOs and residents. Ongoing.
Private Sector Development (PSD): addresses legal, policy and institutional constraints to private sector development at all levels,
including the financial and regulatory system for small and microenterprises. Planned.
IFAD:
Projet d'Activites Generatrices de Revenus (PAGER): aims at increasing revenues, and improving food security and living conditions
of rural populations essentially through short and medium-term credit and a guarantee fund managed by FECECAM, as well as
community development activities and capacity building for grassroot organizations. Starting.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Social funds have proved to be an important tool for channeling funds to the poor for self-enhancement activities (see Marc, Graham,
Schacter and Schmidt, The World Bank, 1995). Accumulated experience has shown that the effectiveness of social funds depends on
several factors, such as a marked administrative autonomy, coordination with public administration agencies, integration with global
and sectoral policies, flexible procurement and disbursement, a participatory approach, rigorous but simple procedures, and political
support and commitment. In particular, a recent review of micro-finance components in social funds (Randhawa, 1996) has
highlighted the main characteristics of success, which include separate management of the component, a pilot approach and the
inclusion of technical assistance in the component. Accordingly, there has been an endeavor to incorporate these elements in the
design of this social fund. The creation of AGeFIB ensures administrative autonomy. The Operating Manual describes an
implementation approach in line with best practice (participation, coordination, flexibility, etc.). In addition, in the case of Benin, the
PILSA project has highlighted some problematic aspects in using NGOs as implementing agencies, including limited NGO capacity
and the need to adapt administrative procedures to field conditions. The Capacity-Building Component of the project aims at
equipping NGOs with the competencies needed for effective collaboration with AGeFIB; frequent consultation with PILSA staff and
NGOs have guided the drafting of the Operating Manual to ensure that AGeFIB's administrative procedures are adapted to field
conditions
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
As the project was initially conceived by the government and is being prepared at their request, political support is very high,
especially in the aftermath of the April 1996 presidential elections. The government has appointed a director general for the project
and opened a special account for the pilot phase; it has also participated in the creation of AGeFIB and the selection of its director
general. Government officials have expressed great interest in getting the social fund operating and have provided considerable
assistance in pushing through the required administrative arrangements. The Minister of Plan, Economic Restructuring and
Employment Promotion has himself inaugurated the first infrastructures built with project financing.
12. Value added of Bank support
While other donors are funding other parts of the government's poverty reduction strategy, the government has specifically asked for
IDA's involvement in this project because of its considerable experience with social fund operations across the world, and its capacity
to act as a catalyst and umbrella for other contributions. It has become clear during project preparation that the Bank's involvement
has attracted other donors (the Islamic Development Bank has expressed interest in parallel financing, and GTZ has contributed to the
pilot phase through the provision of equipment, vehicles, capacity building for AGeFIB staff and consulting services). The project is
also part of the Bank's strategy for poverty reduction in Benin and follows up on the recommendations of the 1994 Poverty
Assessment for greater participation and a bottom-up approach in the fight against poverty.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 6
Country: Benin                                                                                     Project Title: Social Fund
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=NA         [x]  Cost Effectiveness    []  Other
13. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4) ERR=                                        Analysis                  [Specify]
Fiscal impact (for all projects): Negligible
NPV=US$              million; FRR=        %
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5) NA
15. Technical Assessment
The project is technically sound. Lessons learned from experiences with other social funds have been included in project design.
The pilot phase has allowed modification of procedures and of institutional arrangements to improve the project's effectiveness and
its ability to reach the poor.
16. Institutional Assessment
a. Executing agencies: AGeFIB is an autonomous agency under the nominal supervision of the Ministry of Plan, Economic
Restructuring and Employment Promotion (MPREPE). The ministry is not involved in day-to-day affairs, but exercises oversight
through representation on the board of directors; in addition, the ministry's Technical Unit for the Social Dimensions of Development
monitors project activities. The agency itself has a small staff of people chosen for their technical qualifications and dynamism.
Should AGeFIB's institutional capacity be insufficient, the project contains a substantial capacity building component that will allow
the required skills to be acquired; for example, procurement training was provided to key project staff during the pilot phase. In
addition, AGeFIB has the capacity to hire specialized expertise on a contractual basis when necessary. Over the course of the 18
month pilot phase this procedure appears to have worked well.
b. Project management: Project management was selected for the pilot phase through a competitive process and has demonstrated
skill and dedication. Civil servants were considered for project management positions only if they agreed to leave the civil service
before joining AGePIB. A new Director General has been selected to guide AGeFIB and complete the transition from the pilot phase
to effectiveness.
17. Social Assessment
A social fund was recommended in the Benin Poverty Assessment, which included extensive social analysis. This analysis highlighted
several constraints to poverty reduction, many of which will be addressed by this project (insufficient access to basic social services,
insufficient access to financial services, lack of self-reliance, weak NGOs, etc.). It is expected that the project will have substantial
social benefits as it has been designed to target those groups who have been identified as the most vulnerable, particularly women. It
is recognized, however, that actually reaching these groups may be difficult because of the causes of their vulnerability: low levels of
literacy, distance to services/markets, poor infrastructure, lack of information, cultural barriers, etc. Project outreach and sub-project
procedures were established to alleviate these problems and maximize access to project benefits by the poorest groups. Periodic
beneficiary assessments will be carried out as part of ongoing project monitoring.
18. Environmental Assessment           Environmental Category: B
Since the social fund involves demand-driven micro-projects, it is not possible a priori to determine the environmental impact of the
project. The social fund agency has an agreement with the Ministry of the Environment (Ministere de l'environnement, de l'habitat et
de l'urbanisme), so that each micro-project will be approved by the ministry before it is submitted to the social fund agency for
funding. Authority for approval rests with the departmental representative of the Ministry who visits the proposed site and reviews
the construction plans. A set of national guidelines/norms, prepared by the Ministry, is used to determine whether or not a more
detailed assessment is needed. If further study is required, the group proposing the project can request the Ministry to do the work or
it can request help from the Benin Environmental Agency. The Agency has in-house capacity to do more in-depth environmental
work and it has a roster of independent consultants that can be hired to do environmental evaluations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 7
Country: Benin                                                                                  Project Title: Social Fund
19. Participatory Approach                      Identification/Preparation   Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups               CON                       COL                   COL
NGOs                   COL                      COL                    COL
Academic institutions                                                               COL
Local government                 CON                      COL                    COL
Other donors                 COL                      COL                    COL
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation, and COL = collaboration
20. Sustainability
Steps taken to support the sustainability of AGeFIB-funded sub-projects include: (i) an assessment of community commitment and
capacity which will ensure local ownership and motivation to maintain and operate assets created with AGeFIB support; (ii) capacity
building and participative processes to strengthen the involvement of local communities, with special attention to maintenance
arrangements (including choice of simple maintenance technologies); (iii) community investments in sub-project costs, and contracts
on their maintenance responsibilities; (iv) where applicable, prior commitment from the relevant government agency to support
recurrent expenditures; and (v) capacity building to provide communities with maintenance-related technical and managerial skills.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to  Low or non-utilization of new social Modest  In-depth needs analysis, demand-driven
development infrastructure                                implementation, bottom-up approach with
objectives                                              community involvement
Duplication of activities being  Modest      Close coordination with sector ministries and
undertaken by other                          donors; sector ministries approval required
ministries/projects                          before funding of sub-projects
Lack of resources for operation and  Modest  Each sub-project will be required to have a
maintenance of new social                    maintenance plan and communities will sign
infrastructure                               maintenance agreements; sector ministries
must guarantee recurrent costs prior to sub-
project approval
Interest rate ceiling may constrain    Substantial   Engage in dialogue with government on
the ability of micro-finance                 appropriate application of regulations to
intermediaries to reach                      micro-finance institutions
sustainability
Poor investment choices          Modest      Careful screening and training for NGOs
assisting micro-finance component
Macro environment will stifle local  Modest  On-going dialogue with government on
capacity                                     economic policy
Project components to  Needs determination process may    Substantial   Careful screening and training for
outputs  not be participative                         intermediary NGOs, training for community
groups, careful monitoring
AGeFIB mechanisms may not be    Modest       Pilot testing of AGeFIB procedures, ZOPP-
transparent and effective                    PPO



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 8
Country: Benin                                                                                  Project Title: Social Fund
Despite NGO assistance, credit  Modest       Close coordination with financial institutions
application procedures will deter            and capacity building for local groups
the poor from seeking credit.
NGOs selected will have          Modest       Screening of intermediary NGOs will
insufficient capacity                        include assessment of technical and financial
management capacity. Training will be
offered to selected NGOs who need capacity
strengthening
Overall Risk Rating                                 Modest
22. Possible Controversial Aspects
The Government was initially adamant about including credit lines for formal financial institutions in the project package. However,
the interest showed by other donors in co-financing the project has eased pressure on the World Bank for credit lines, which could be
provided by other sources. In addition, there is some disagreement over interest rates, with the Bank team supporting commercial
rates and the Beninese team preferring subsidized rates. The controversy should be easily resolved as the World Bank will not provide
credit lines, and assistance to informal financial intermnediaries will not interfere with interest rates deternined by local market
conditions.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) An agreement (Convention) between the Borrower and AGeFIB has been executed; under this agreement, the Borrower will
transfer to AGeFIB the entire proceeds of the credit on a non-reimbursable basis.
(b) The Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution of 162 million CFA Francs has been deposited in the said
Account.
(c) The Borrower has employed independent auditors for the Project.
(d) AGeFIB has adopted an Operating Manual and an Administrative and Financial Procedure Manual, satisfactory to the Borrower
and IDA.
(e) The Borrower has issued the Decree granting to AGeFIB the status of a public interest association, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA.
24. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements database.]
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Maurizia Tovo                               Country Manager: Theodore Ahlers



ANNEX I
Page I of 2
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and
(Exact targets will be                                           Risks
determined on the basis of
results from the pilot phase)
CAS Objective                                                                          (CAS Objective to Bank
Promote community-based      # of people (by gender) with  Mid-term evaluation and end    Mission)
development and employment.  increased or more stable     of project evaluation
income due to credit or
improved infrastructure      On-going project monitoring
# of days of work created    system
Project Development                                                                    (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                             CAS Objective)
1. Improved access to social    1.1 # of people (by gender)  1. 1.1. On-going through
services (Minimum social     with access to improved      project MIS, beneficiary
commun)                      services: schools, clinics, water  assessments, AGeFIB yearly
points, storage facilities   reports to the Board of
Directors
2. Increased income-generation  2.1. # of people (by gender)  2.1.1. Mid-term evaluation,
by the poor                  with increased or more stable   end of project evaluation and
income due to credit or      beneficiary assessments
improved infrastructure
3. Social capital development,  3.1. # of communities/NGOs    3.1.1. Mid-term evaluation,
particularly increased       using new capacities for self-   end of project evaluation and
community empowerment        help                         beneficiary assessments
Project Outputs                                                                        (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Improved socio-economic    1.1. 600 UCD (Unites        1.1.1. Sub-project completion   1. Assumption: Improved
infrastructure in poor       Communautaires de            and location available from  infrastructure will improve
communities, maintained by   Developpement) have at least   project MIS, beneficiary   access to services and markets.
the communities              one socioeconomic            assessments                  Risks: Low or non-utilization
infrastructure sub-project (e.g.                          of new infrastructure
improved schools,
dispensaries, threshing floors
etc.)
1.2. 70% of community        1.2.1. Mid-term and end of
maintenance committees       project evaluations, beneficiary
established under project are    assessments
-functioning after two years.
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators2   Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and
(Exact targets will be                                           Risks
determined on the basis of
results from the pilot phase)
Project Outputs (Continued)
2. Increased utilization of  2.1. 2000 savings groups     2.1.1 Project MIS            2. Assumption: Access to
micro-finance by poor        receiving finance due to                                  credit will increase income
communities/groups,          project activities                                        through income-generating
particularly women                                                                     investments. Risk: Poor
2.2. At least 50% of group   2.2.1. Project MIS and       investment choices. Macro
members women                beneficiary assessments      environment not conducive
3. Increased capacity among  3.1. 500 NGOs/communities    3.1.1. Mid-term and end of   3. Assumption: Increased
NGOs and communities for     with improved capacity for   project evaluations, beneficiary  capacity among NGOs and
identifying needs and solutions  needs assessment and planning  assessments            communities will lead to local
empowerment. Risk: Macro
environment will stifle local
capacity
Project Components                                                                     (Components to Outputs)
1. Micro-infrastructure      1.1. 600 sub-projects        1.1.1. All information available  1. Assumption: Institutional
approved                     in project management        structure of AGeFIB will
information system           respond to community needs.
1.2. 540 sub-projects                                     Risks: needs determination
completed                                                 process will not be
participative, AGeFIB
mechanisms will not be
transparent and effective
2. Micro-finance             2.1. 2000 informal savings   2.1.1. All information available  2. Assumption: There is an
groups put in contact with  in project management         unmet demand for micro-
financial institutions       information system           finance due to access
difficulties or lack of capital.
2.2. 120 matching grants made                             Risk: Even with NGO
assistance credit application
procedures will deter the poor
from seeking credit. Formal
financial institutions may not
have the capacity to handle
large numbers of poor clients
3. Capacity building         3.1. 525 training sessions held   3.1.1. All information available  3. Assumption: NGOs and
in project management        communities feel the need for
information system           additional capacity and will
respond to opportunities.
AGeFIB will be able to
respond to requests for
capacity building with
effective programs
2
2Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



ANNEX 2
Page I of 5
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Overview
This project is in response to a government request, endorsed by the donor community during a
roundtable on the social dimensions of development held in June 1994. It is part of a poverty reduction
strategy comprising four elements: (a) strengthening the national capacity to formulate and implement
social policies, (b) monitoring the living conditions of poor and vulnerable groups, (c) promoting
community-based development through micro-projects, and (d) promoting employment. A social fund
has been identified as the best approach to implement the third element of the strategy, and as an
important contribution to employment promotion.
The Project has three main components:
1. small socio-economic infrastructures at the community level
2. support to income-generating activities through financial intermediation
3. capacity building for grassroot communities, civil society and AGeFIB.
Implementation will be the responsibility of an independent association (AGeFIB) financed by the
project, which will rely heavily on contractual services provided by private sector operators (NGOs,
consulting firms, training institutions, etc.). Because the project is essentially demand-driven--that is,
interventions to be financed will be almost exclusively on demand from intended beneficiaries--accurate
planning and budgeting are difficult. Project design, therefore, has to allow for maximum flexibility.
This flexibility has been built in by keeping operating expenditures low and leaving a portion of the
budget unallocated. Close monitoring will guide allocations as the project evolves so as to be able to
respond to emerging needs.
Institutional Arrangements
The pilot phase of the social fund has been managed by AGePIB, an agency created in August 1995 by
ADSD (Association pour la Dimension Sociale du Diveloppement, a non-profit private association) for
the express purpose of rnanaging the social fund and has thus far operated thanks to grants from GTZ and
the Japanese government (through a PHRD grant obtained by the World Bank), as well as a Project
Preparation Fund. However, it has become clear during the pilot phase that a more independent structure
is needed to obtain the required flexibility. Therefore, a new entity, AGeFIB, with its own independent
legal identity, was created in October 1997. AGeFIB (an association ai but non lucratif under the 1901
Law of Associations) is entitled to negotiate its own financing agreements and to enter into contracts. As
a condition of effectiveness, AGeFIB will have the status of a public interest association by decree. The
project will cover the cost of expanding/intensifying AGeFIB's activities for a period of five years. This
will include: (a) small investments, such as construction or rehabilitation of office space, office
equipment, furniture and vehicles, as well as consultant services, workshops and training, and (b)
operating expenditures for project implementation, management and supervision, such as staff salaries
(on a contractual basis), field supervision and associated subsistence allowances, office consumables,
and maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
AGeFIB professional staff is selected in a competitive process on the basis of technical expertise,
experience and dynamism. Although civil servants are not prevented from applying, they are requested
to leave the civil service before being hired. Overseeing the work of the agency will be a Board of
Directors, composed of two representatives of the government, two representatives of NGOs, two
representatives of potential beneficiaries through community-based organizations and one representative
of the civil society.
The structure of AGeFIB has been kept lean, with the intention of facilitating a flexible approach and
allowing as much opportunity for initiative as possible to the civil society. Hence the agency will focus
on promotion, screening, financing and overall monitoring & evaluation, while implementation will be
contracted out either to intermediaries, that is, NGOs and private firms, or, where appropriate, directly to
community groups. Intermediaries will be selected in a competitive manner on the basis of their
experience, competence and reputation, as well as direct assessment of their field work.
In addition to the headquarters based in Cotonou, the agency will have four departmental offices (in
Atacora, Borgou and Zou, plus one to cover the three southern departments). The first departmental
office to open will be in Atacora; the others will follow in a phased manner in response to demand.
Departmental offices will be staffed initially by three experts (one per component) plus a junior
accountant, and will contract out specialized services as needed. They will concentrate on screening and
monitoring sub-projects of Component 1, and have autonomy to approve sub-projects up to 20 million
CFAF. Screening Committees (Comites d'Approbation) at the departmental level will have to approve
all sub-projects above 20 million CFAF, as well as all exceptional requests, that is, requests falling
outside the guidelines provided in the Operating Manual in terms of sector, target group or approach.
AGeFIB Organigram
|   Board ofDirectors|
Director General
Monitoring &                   Finane rand
Evaluation Unit               Accounting Unit
Socio-economic             Income Generating          Capacity-Building/
Infrastructure Unit            Activities Unit          Exteral Relations
Regional Office        Regional Offic             Regional Office             R



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
Project Component 1 Small Socio-Economic Infrastructure
Component 1 will finance small socio-economic infrastructure at the community level, including
preparatory identification steps and maintenance related arrangements and training. The Operating
Manual identifies eligible interventions as well as norms and criteria for selection.  The basic
requirement is that the proposed sub-project addresses a priority need felt by the community and helps
the community achieve the Minimum Social Commun, that is, a minimum package of socio-economic
goods and services considered necessary to start a self-reliant development process at the local level.
Possible interventions include: rehabilitation, extension or construction of primary schools;
rehabilitation, extension or construction of health centers and dispensaries; installation of water points,
reservoirs and sanitation services; rehabilitation or repair of feeder roads, small bridges and other basic
transport infrastructure; small socio-economic infrastructure for community use such as markets and
storage facilities.
Requests presented to AGeFIB by selected intermediaries or by the communities themselves must be the
result of a participatory process whereby the whole community, and not just the elite, took part in the
discussion and agreed with the decision. To ensure sustainability, maintenance plans will have to be
submitted together with a detailed budget and work plan. Should recurrent costs be of concern, such as
in the case of construction of schools and health centers, requests will have to include provisions for such
costs; both the health and education ministries have plans to hire additional personnel over the next few
years (in both cases, in the context of IDA-financed projects).
Close collaboration with sectoral ministries will be necessary not only to make sure that recurrent costs
are taken care of, but also to make sure that interventions financed by AGeFIB are consistent with
sectoral and regional policies, and actually reinforce them. To this end, contact people have been
identified in each relevant sectoral ministry. These contact people will assist AGeFIB in defining
technical specifications and maintenance plans acceptable to the ministry, inform AGeFIB of relevant
policy decisions in their sector, help assess the viability of proposed sub-projects (if necessary), and act
as liaison between AGeFIB and other actors in the sector to optimize coordination. No sub-project will
be financed in the absence of a written approval by the appropriate sectoral ministry (whether on the
basis of a pre-established list or on a case by case analysis) and of clear and concrete plans to cover
recurrent costs and maintenance.
While basic environmental information will be part of the documentation necessary to obtain financing,
environmental assessments may be required in some cases, and environmental education will be
provided at the community level through Component 3. The Benin Environmental Agency has a pool of
qualified experts who can be contracted to do environmental assessments.
AGeFIB will contribute 90% of the cost of approved sub-projects in the form of subsidy, while the
requesting community will provide the remaining 10% in the form of goods (e.g., land, sand, wooden
poles), labor (e.g., clearing land, digging foundations, building enclosures) or cash (e.g., in the case of
water pumps and wells, a cash contribution is required by sectoral policy). Intermediaries (NGOs or
private firms) who will assist communities in their efforts to organize, identify and prioritize their
problems, discuss possible solutions, select a sub-project, work out concrete plans and a budget, submit a
proposal to AGeFIB and implement the sub-project, will receive a fee of up to 20% of the portion
financed by the Credit and paid by AGeFIB (90% of the total cost of the sub-project). Local artisans and
microentrepreneurs will be used to carry out necessary works, hence encouraging private sector
development at the local level.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Intermediaries will be required to use a participatory approach, paying particular attention to the active
participation of women, young people, the poor and other disadvantaged groups which often do not have
a voice in public fora. They will also be responsible for day-to-day monitoring and follow-up to ensure
the good use of AGeFIB funds. Should communities present their requests directly to AGeFIB,
monitoring and follow-up will be sub-contracted to private sector operators active in the area (NGOs,
individual consultants, consulting companies).  In all cases, AGeFIB  staff will conduct on-site
monitoring on a sample basis.
Project Component 2: Support to Income-Generating Activities
This component aims at developing financial intermediation services for low-income groups, so as to
provide them with greater opportunities to increase or stabilize their revenues, as well as with the means
to access and maintain basic social services. Support to income-generating activities, therefore, will be
primarily in the form of assistance to microfinance institutions. To take into account the heterogeneity of
institutions involved in microfinance, the unequal distribution of financial services in the country
(especially urban/rural) and the preferences/characteristics of prospective clients, the component is
divided into two sub-components, one dealing with formal financial systems, the other with informal
ones.
(a) Formal Financial Systems. A number of formal institutions are already involved in
microfinance (e.g., FECECAM, PADME, PAssEF, CREP, Echoppe, etc.) and have
expressed interest in collaborating with AGeFIB. This collaboration will take the form of
social intermediation aimed at facilitating the poor's access to the financial services offered
by such institutions. AGeFIB will finance social intermediation to be carried out by selected
intermediaries (NGOs and private firms), hence providing an indirect subsidy to formal
financial institutions by lowering their cost of servicing low-income customers.
Intermediaries will be requested to: identify suitable formal financial institutions operating
in a given area, negotiate a collaboration agreement with them, conduct information and
outreach campaigns (e.g., explanation of services available and ways to access such
services), and assist prospective clients in making contact with the institutions, opening an
account and obtaining a credit. As part of the agreement, formal financial institutions will be
required to participate in promotion activities, offer products appropriate to the needs of
disadvantaged groups (especially women), organize itinerant banking services and simplify
procedures if needed, and facilitate monitoring and evaluation by providing timely
information. In addition, intermediaries and financial institutions will be encouraged to
negotiate particular arrangements for follow-up services to ensure high repayment rates.
(b) Informal Financial Systems. Informal financial systems, such as savings and credit groups,
are already accessible to disadvantaged groups, but they can benefit from institutional
development assistance. Such assistance, to be financed by AGeFIB and delivered by
selected intermediaries, will be of two kinds: (1) training and consulting services to improve
the efficiency and safety of operations, and (2) provision of matching funds to allow for an
increase in the credit portfolio and therefore outreach. Criteria for selecting informal
financial systems are detailed in the Operating Manual and will be strict. They include:
years of successful operation, membership (number and gender), accounting procedures and
discipline, savings mobilization, and credit repayment rates. Matching funds will be made
available on a limited basis, with the ultimate purpose of preparing receiving organizations
to gain access to commercial sources of funds. All assistance provided to informal financial
systems will be in the form of grants, contingent on performance.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Project activities under this component complement two other IDA-financed projects, one in support of
the rehabilitation of FECECAM (Federation of Savings and Loans Cooperatives), which is ongoing, and
the other in support of private sector development, under preparation. In particular, the Private Sector
Development Project has a microenterprise component which will enable PADME to extend its
operations beyond Cotonou and Porto Novo by providing both technical and financial assistance.
Project Component 3: Capacity Building and Institutional Arrangements
This component will priimarily address capacity building at the grass-root and intermediary levels
(NGOs), and aim at equipping beneficiaries with organizational, managerial and strategic skills. In the
case of grass-root communities, the ultimate goal is increased self-reliance and the development of social
capital; in the case of intermediaries, benefits should be both in terms of improved internal functioning as
well as better support to grass-root communities. AGeFIB staff may also benefit from activities financed
under this component such as study tours to other social funds, training on Bank's procurement and
disbursement procedures and documents, and assistance provided for post-review by a third party.
Capacity-building interventions may be on demand from beneficiaries themselves or from suggestions by
qualified organizations working with the intended beneficiaries (e.g., intermediaries proposing assistance
for communities, or AGeFIB proposing assistance for intermediaries). A wide variety of activities can
be financed under this component, including: information sessions/material, training, action-research,
twinning arrangements, secondments and short-term technical assistance. Initial assessments suggest the
need of interventions in: participatory techniques, needs assessment, accounting, sub-project planning,
and time management.
Demands for capacity-building interventions will be examined by AGeFIB and, if needed, passed to an
NGO/consulting agency with capacity-building expertise to refine the requests in collaboration with the
intended beneficiaries and identify the appropriate delivery mechanisms. For service delivery, three
options will be possible: (a) AGeFIB will do it directly, (b) AGeFIB will contract a private provider (e.g.,
consultants, training institutes), or (c) AGeFIB will rely on the services of an intermediary
NGO/consulting agency which will not itself provide the capacity-building services but rather facilitate
access to them.
Under this Component it will also be possible to carry out a pilot program of research, supervised
directly by AGeFIB. Such a program will include:
(a)  studies aimed at improving the efficiency or performance of AGeFIB, whether by
addressing a frequent problem (e.g., how to deal with land tenure issues when building
new infrastructure) or by seeking technical solutions (e.g., the best techniques to build
reservoirs under particular agro-ecological conditions);
(b)  innovative approaches or activities not originally envisaged under AGeFIB's mandate,
such as the piloting of comprehensive services to microentrepreneurs including marketing
and feasibility studies.
Because of its nature, this pilot program will be subjected to very strict monitoring and evaluation.
The activities financed in relation to the institutional arrangements are described on page 1 of this
Annex.



ANNEX 3
Page I of I
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Project Component                                                 Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Small Socio-Economic lnfrastructure                              7.7             0.0           7.7
2. Support to Income-Generating Activities                          4.1             0.1           4.2
3. Capacity Building                                                1.5             0.1           1.6
4. Project Management                                               3.4             0.2           3.6
Total Baseline Cost                                                16.7             0.4          17.1
Physical Contingencies                                           1.3             0.01           1.3
Price Contingencies                                              2.1             0.01           2.1
Total Proiect Cost                                                 20.1             0.4          20.5
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                  Fiscal Impact
Economic          Financial
Analysis         Analysis3         Taxes             Subsidies
Project Costs             N.A.              N.A.              negligible        negligible
Background:
Interventions of the social fund will be essentially demand-driven (negative list). Social assessments
and related studies provide extensive evidence of unmet demand and willingness to pay for services to be
provided under the SIF. Results of the March 1997 Beneficiary Assessment suggest the following
tentative breakdown of social fund financing: (a) primary health and education infrastructure 30%;
(b) water and sanitation 20%; (c) basic transport infrastructure 20%; (d) other (mainly agricultural
services and credit) 30%. In each category, the SIF will meet only a small fraction of total needs.
The nature and conditions of SIF interventions are coherent with prevailing GoB/IDA strategies in
the respective sectors. Selection of SIF activities/projects is to be based on risk assessment and
cost-effectiveness criteria. Construction and other works will be contracted to the private sector.
Incremental health and education personnel requirements likely to be generated by the SIF are
already accounted for in the Government budget; if this is not the case, communities will be
required to provide realistic plans to cover them before financing for the sub-project is approved.
For all types of interventions, communities/beneficiaries are to contribute 10% of total project
costs. Communities are also responsible for the maintenance of infrastructure provided under the
SIF. The project's overall fiscal impact is therefore negligible.
Cost-effectiveness indicators4
In view of the uncertainties surrounding the precise nature, location and timing of the SIF
activities/projects, conventional economic analysis is of limited use. Instead, a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation framework has been developed during the preparation and the pilot
phases of the project (see Annex 8), to maximize cost-effectiveness of AGeFIB operations and
insure optimal results on the ground. AGeFIB staff has been sensitized to the need for systematic
application of this framework.
Continuous monitoring and evaluation of AGeFIB operations will proceed at four levels:
*  the initial conditions essential for the success AGeFIB-financed projects;
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is
warranted, e.g., 'The difference between financial and economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of altemative project designs or international standards.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
* the complementary requirements for effective and sustainable operation of completed
projects, such as school and medical supplies, qualified staff, access to technical support from line
ministries;
* outcomes, both in termns of project execution and impact on selected target groups, in
accordance with stated objectives; and
* the performance of the principal actors (promoters, intermediaries, beneficiaries and
AGeFIB staff).
Specific performance indicators are defined at each level. With respect to initial conditions, the
experience with social funds emphasizes three critical factors of success, namely the assurance
that: (a) projects adequately address priority needs of target groups, hence are identified, prepared
and implemented with their full collaboration; (b) applied technologies are appropriately suited to
maintenance and management capabilities of targeted communities; and (c) locally available
resources are adequately mobilized and organized to insure proper functioning and maintenance
of micro projects.
Cost-effectiveness in project implementation will be measured against unit costs in comparable,
mostly IDA-financed, activities in health, education, community-based food security and
nutrition. Outcomes will be compared to prevailing standards at local, regional and national
levels. Monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the principal actors will essentially serve
to identify needs for training, technical assistance and social marketing, or for strategic
adjustments in the choice of intennediaries, contract terms and AGeFIB operational procedures.



ANNEX 5
Page I of I
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Fiscal Years Ending 2003
(US$ million)
Implementation Period
1999      2000     2001    2002    2003
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs                   2.4       3.8       4.9      4.9      2.8
Recurrent Costs                    0.2       0.3       0.4      0.4       0.4
Total                           2.6       4.1       5.3      5.3       3.2
Financing Sources (% of total
proiect costs)
IBRD/IDA                           83        82        80       79       82
Co-financiers
Govermment
Central                         10        10         9        10       10
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries             7         8        11       11         8
Total                          100       100       100      100       100



ANNEX 6
Page I of 6
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.  PROCUREMENT
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                        NCB       Community    Other a           N.B.F        TOTAL
Participation
A. Civil Works: Construction or
Rehabilitation of Regional Offices              0.09                                                      0.09
(0.08)                                                   (0.08)
B. Goods: Equipment, Vehicles and
Furniture for central & regional offices         0.4                           0.1                         0.5
(0.3)                        (0.1)                       (0.4)
C. Grants for Sub-projects                                        7.5                                      7.5
(5.5)                                     (5.5
D. Matching Grant                                                              1.2          1.2            2.4
(1.2)                       (1.2)
E. Consultants' Services                                          1.8          4.0                         5.8
(1.8)        (4.0)                       (5.8)
F. Training                                                                    2.3                         2.3
(2.3)                       (2.3)
G. Studies, Research and Surveys                                               0.2                         0.2
(0.2)                       (0.2)
H. Operating Cost c                                                            1.4          0.3            1.7
(1.2)                       (1.2)
TOTAL            0.5             9.3          9.2           1.5          20.5
1__   (0.4)           (7.3)        (9.0)                      (16.7)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit, excluding taxes and duties. Totals may not add up
due to rounding.
a Other procurement methods include national shopping, direct purchasing of goods, selection of consultants following Bank/IDA
guidelines, and expenditures following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA.
b N.B.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Operating costs includes incremental operating costs incurred for project implementation, management and supervision. These
include office consumables, field supervision and associated subsistence allowances, building, vehicle and equipment
maintenance and operating costs, office rental, and incremental contractual salaries (excluding civil servants salaries).



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
Procedures
The proposed project will follow World Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods, works and services --
Guidelines. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 revised January and August
1996, and September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (Consultant
Guidelines)--in all respects. Preference for domestically manufactured goods does not apply. In view of
the experience already acquired under the pilot phase and the simple nature of the procurement to be
carried out under the project, the financial officer of the AGeFIB will be responsible for the
implementation of all procurement activities foreseen under the project. Procurement training was also
provided to AGeFIB staff during the pilot phase.
International Competitive Bidding: ICB procedures would be applied for any contract above the
threshold of about US$200,000 for goods and US$100,000 for works. Given the nature of the project, no
contracts above US$60,000 are expected, both for civil works and procurement of goods. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) and Community Participation will constitute the main procurement methods
used in the project.
National Competitive Bidding. NCB procedures will be used for: (a) the procurement of works for four
departmental offices of the AGeFIB in the regions for individual contract costing in average US$25,000 up
to an aggregate value of US$100,000; and (b) the procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles for
individual contracts above or equivalent to US$60,000 up to an aggregate value of US$300,000. NCB
procedures will include: (a) explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local
advertising with public bid opening and minimum time of 30 day for bid preparation; (c) award to lowest
acceptable evaluated bidder; and (d) foreign bidders will not be precluded from participating in NCB.
National Shopping method of procurement may be used occasionally for procuring readily available off-
the-shelf goods or standard specifications commodities that are small in value. Size of individual contracts
will be invariably less than US$60,000, for an aggregate value of US$ 100,000.
Community Participationl methods will form the bulk of the project procurement given the nature of the
project and its purpose of encouraging community self-determination. Communities, with technical
assistance from NGOs, will be implementing turnkey micro-projects (through grants for sub-projects)
purchasing both services of skilled labors and goods or equipment purchased through methods outlined in
the Manual of Procedures and prescribed in the contract agreements signed with the communities.
AGeFIB will contract out implementation activities to individuals, private contractors, NGOs and
community-based agencies such as private voluntary associations selected on criteria established in the
Manual of Procedures. Standard unit cost lists will be maintained by AGeFIB and will be updated every
three to six months. The lists will be used for reference in prices by communities and as price ranges for
standardized socio-economic infrastructure. Communities will hire contractors of the required skill level,
which predetermines their wage rates, and procure materials and supplies by obtaining quotes from three
suppliers, when available, and selecting the suppliers with the lowest cost who fulfills their requirements.
When too few qualified local contractors or suppliers are available, communities may resort to direct
contracting with a local village contractor or supplier. Implementation of the full range of activities
included in the micro-projects will be monitored by AGeFIB and by third party verification firms, for
quality and disbursement purposes.
Consulting Services. Consultants for the projects will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and revised in



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
September 1997. Different procedures will be used depending on the nature of the assignment and local
conditions of work. These procedures are described in detail in the Project Agreement and consist of: (a)
quality- and cost-based selection for the main contracts such as capacity building and skill-transmission
assignments, project evaluation and auditing contracts, third-party post review; (b) fixed budget contracts,
easy to administer and based on performance, for most NGOs and other intermediaries assignments, such
as management of turnkey micro-projects; (c) selection based on consultants qualifications, for small
project evaluation contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent and carried out in rural areas
for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified; and (d) selection of
individual consultants will be made for project management, capacity building and project evaluation.
Prior Review
Prior review will be carried out for all NCB contracts for procurement of goods and works. The first five
draft micro-projects contracts (or more if necessary) for each of the five offices will also be reviewed.
Most Bank supervision will consist of post-review on a sample basis either by the task team leader or
individual consultants/third party firms. For consulting services, prior review of documentation would be
required for: (a) contracts with consulting firms with an estimated value of US$100,000 equivalent or
more; (b) contracts with consulting firms with an estimated value between US$50,000 and US$100,000,
except technical evaluation report; (c) contracts with individuals of US$50,000 equivalent or more; (d) all
sole source selections of consulting firms; (e) terms of reference for all contracts regardless of value; and
(e) amendments to contracts with consulting firms and individuals that result in revised value equivalent or
greater than US$50,000. Procurement plan: prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project will be submitted to IDA for
review and approval.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
(in US$ equivalent)
l _________________ l                    Method of Procurement                 l
Categories            NCB             | Community             | Other           Prior Review by IDA
l  l             || Participation        l
Civil Works for       > or equal to                                             All NCB contracts
regional offices       $25,000 or < to
$100,000 equiv.
(Aggregate $0.1
million)
Furniture, Vehicles, and  > or equal to                        < $60,000 equiv. All NCB contracts
Equipment for central   $60,000 or < to                        (Aggregate $0.1
& regional offices     $200,000 equiv.                         million)
(Aggregate $0.3
million)
Grants for Sub-projects                 < $60,000 equiv.                        First five draft micro-
(Aggregate $7.5                         project contracts (or
million)                                more if necessary) for
each of the five offices
will be subject to prior
review
Matching Grant         NA                                      All              Procedure of selection
and review detailed in
Manual of procedures
Consultants' Services    NA             $1.8 million equiv.    $4.0 million     Firms = $100,000 or
equiv.          more; Firms = $50,000
to < $100,000: except
technical evaluation
report; Indiv. >$50,000;
sole source; all TORs;
short-list; draft contract;
______________  _____________________     letter  of  invitation
Training, Studies,    NA                                       All              see Consultants'
Research, and Surveys        _                                                  Services
Documents
The project will be based on standardized bid documents and procedures firmly set-up in the Manual of
Procedures. NCB bid documents will be based on Bank Standard Bidding Documents for the
procurement of goods and small civil works contracts. Simplified standard documents, based on AGeTIP-
type documents, will be used for smaller works under the project.
Consulting contracts, letter of invitations (LOIs) and evaluation criteria will be standardized and based on
Bank standard forms of contract and models. A Manual of Procedures, to be approved by the Bank at
negotiations, will establish the procurement procedures for the micro-projects and other NGOs or
intermediate managed assignments. Technical documents for the micro-projects will include estimates of
type/number of works for geographical area; packaging of works/goods and their implementation/delivery



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
schedule; standard specifications and design of structures; unit costs and single structures estimates
allowing for streamlined execution and monitoring of projects.
II    DISBURSEMENT
Disbursement will be made for goods, works, and services that are eligible for IDA financing.
The US dollar will be considered an eligible currency for bidding and payment (paras. 2.29 and 2.32 of
the Procurement Guidelines) and it will also be acceptable for consultant services payment.
Use of Statement of Expenditures
All withdrawal applications submitted for disbursements of funds for eligible expenditures will be fully
documented. However, the Borrower will be authorized to submit withdrawal applications on the basis of
statement of expenditures (SOEs) for contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent of goods, works and
consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants, training and operating costs. All supporting
documentation for such withdrawal application claimed on the basis of SOEs will be retained by the
AGeFIB and will be readily available for review by visiting World Bank missions and external auditors.
all claims for expenditures above the limits of SOE expenditures indicated above would be eligible for
direct payment.
Special Account (denominated in CFA francs)
Authorized allocation of CFAF 500 million, initial deposit in a commercial bank of CFAF 250 million
upon effectiveness will increase to CFAF 500 million once disbursement and commitments reach SDR
2.5 million.
Direct payment: minimum application amount above or equivalent to 20 percent of Special Account
deposit.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table C below
TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category                             Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$ million
1. Grants for Sub-projects                         5.0              100% of amount disbursed
2. Civil Works                                     0.1              100% foreign expenditures and
85% local expenditures
3. Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture and              0.4              100 % foreign and
materials                                                           85% local expenditures
4. Consultants' services, Audits, Training and     5.2              100%
Studies
5. Matching Grants                                 1.2              100% of amount disbursed
6. Operating Costs a                               1.2              85%
7. Project Preparation Facility                    0.6
8. Unallocated                                     3.0
Total Financed by IDA                           16.7
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred for project implementation, management and supervision. These
include office consumables, field supervision and associated subsistence allowances, buildings, vehicles and equipment
maintenance and operating costs, office rental, and incremental contractual salaries (excluding civil servants salaries)
III  PROJECT ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
Project Account. Prior to credit effectiveness, Government will be required to deposit the first tranche of
the counterpart funds in the amount of 162 million Francs CFA (equivalent to about US$300,000) to
cover the first year of project implementation
Audit. AGeFIB will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable
to IDA.
An annual audit report of project accounts, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and in
accordance with the Bank document "Financial Account Reporting and Auditing Handbook", January
1995, will be submitted to IDA no more than six months after completion of each fiscal year. Semi-
annual audit reports of the Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be submitted within three months of
each period.



ANNEX 7
Page I of I
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
305                     305
B. Project Schedule                                     Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    10 Months
First Bank mission (identification)                   07/04/1996             07/04/1996
Appraisal mission departure                           04/28/1997             05/05/1997
Negotiations                                          05/05/1997             04/20/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         10/30/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Plan, Economic Restructuring and Employment Promotion
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant, PPF, GTZ
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Maurizia Tovo, Sociologist (TTL, AFTH3), Johanne
Angers, Operations Analyst (AFTH3), Bertrand de Chazal, Senior Financial Analyst (AFTS3), Jean-
Charles de Daruvar, Counsel (LEGAF), Ousmane Diagana, Senior Operations Officer (AFMBJ), John
Elder, Sociologist (Consultant, AFTH3), Cecile Fruman, Micro-finance Specialist (Consultant, ASTHR),
Celine Gavach, Language Team Assistant (AFTH3), Christian Loupeda, Consultant (AFMBJ), Hovsep
Melkonian, Senior Disbursement Officer (LOAAF), Francesco Samo, Senior Procurement Specialist
(AFTS3), Antoine Schwartz, Senior Economist (PSP), Michel Voyer, Operating Manual (Consultant)
Peer Reviewers: Alexandre Marc, Human Resource Specialist (EC4MS), William Steel, Technical
Specialist (AFTP I).



ANNEX 8
Page I of I
BENIN
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Project Implementation Plan:
Manuel de Procedures (draft, October 1997)
Operating Manual in use during the pilot phase.
Monitoring and evaluation guidelines
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other:
"Determination des besoins prioritaires des communautes de base," by IGIP (February-March
1997).  Participatory evaluation of priority community needs conducted using SARAR
methodology in a sample of rural and urban communities. Distinguishes priorities by gender.
*Including electronic files.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
Benin at a glance                                                             8/28/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-
Benin    Africa  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (milions)                         5.6       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            360       490       500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               2.0       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population ({)                                        2.9       2.7      1.7      GNP                            Gross
Labor force (%)                                      2.5       2.6      1.7      per                          pnmary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available since 1989)                            capfta                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populabon)            33
Urban population (X of total populaton)              42         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      50         52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              95         92       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            36
Access to safe water (% of population)                70         47       53
Illiteracy (% of populaffon age 15+)                  63        43        34         -Benin
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populabon)  72         72      105
Male                                                 ..       78       112               Low-ncomegroup
Female                                               ..       65        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1985      1996      1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                           0.7      1.0       2.0      2.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP               19.3      8.9      19.0     17.5             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           21.1    34.4       25.6     24.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   1.7      0.8       9.3      9.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   9.2      4.7      12.2     12.6
Current account balance/GDP                -15.6    -4.2       -7.4     -5.3                                 Ivsmn
Interest payments/GDP                        0.1      1.3       0.0      0.0      Savings                    Investment
Total debtUGDP                              12.7    78.1       77.9     77.8
Total debt service/exports                   3.7    11.5        7.1     16.0
Present value of debtUGOP                      ..      ..      44.3     37.4
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    151.5    162.7                   Indebtedness
197545  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                               -     Benin
GDP                                 4.4      3.5      4.8       5.5      5.8               Low-income goup
GNP per capita                      1.4    -0.8       3.0       2.2      3.0
Exports of goods and services       4.4      1.8      6.0      20.0     12.3    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1976    1985      1995    1996        Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                 30.5    34.5       33.9     35.1      40_
Industry                                    16.2    18.1       14.2     13.7      20- 
Manufacturing                              12.2     8.2        8.1      8.0     20-
Services                                    53.3    47.4       51.9     51.2     to -N..\
Private consumption                         89.1    83.8       79.8     79.6    .10 -    91   92   93   94   95
General govemment consumption                9.3    15.4       10.9     11.2              -     GDI      I3GOP
Imports of goods and services               38.7    42.5       35.3     33.1    1
197545  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports ('A)
Agriculture                                  3.7      5.2       0.6      7.6      ro-
Industry                                     7.6      3.6       5.9      3.9      40-
Manufacturing                               2.5     4.2        5.2      5.8
Services                                     4.0      1.3       6.5      4.7      20
Private consumption                          3.0      2.1       6.8      0.6             91   92    93594   95
General govemment consumption                3.4    -0.2       18.5      3.5      20 
Gross domestic investment                    4.2    10.3       32.5     -7.1      40 -
Imports of goods and services                1.7      0.5      36.9     -3.3             -Export        14 Imports
Gross nabonal product                        4.2      3.3       4.9      5.8
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995    1996       Inflation %
Domestic pnces
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                               ..       ..      14.9      4.7
Implicit GDP deflator                      14.2      -4.9      16.6      3.0    20
Government finance
(% of GOP)                                                                        0
Current revenue                               ..    12.7       14.4    15.1              91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                        ..    -4.7        2.2      3.2             -G OP def.  +CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       *-    -4.7       -7.0    -4.6
TRADE
(millions USS)                                      1985       1996    1996      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                           ..     298        405      423     750
Cotton    .                                 ..      42        173      210
Fats                                        ..        4        17       1 1     So
Manufactures                                          4 0       0        0
Total imports (df)                            ..     326        567      548
Food12                                                        11        1 
Fuel and energy                                     61         73       76
Capital goods                                       7          1        1 
Export price index (1987=100)                ..      157       250      253           90  91  92  93  94  95   9t
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..     151        176     181                 3Expons    mimpons
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     *-     104        142      140
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               144      360       531      546      o
Imports of goods and services               264      444       732      728
Resource balance                           -119      -85       -201    -182
Net income                                   -1      -21        -44     -41
Net current transfers                        15       62         96      107
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers        -106       -44      -150    -116        t 
Financing items (net)                        86       30        134      164
Changes in net reserves                      20       14         16     -48      ' 
Memo:_
Reserves including gold (rnill. USS)         15        8        296     360
Conversion rate (localWSS)                214.3    449.3      512.2   543.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1998    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed          86      817      1,576    1,712
IBRO                                        0        0         0        0                    F G
IDA                                        19      125       498      520                   52 35
Total debt service                            6       49         43      99                                 491
ISRO                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        2         7        7
Composition of net resource flows                                                     E
Official grants                            20       27       113        0           709                    39
Official creditors                         12       29        65        0
Private creditors                           0      -18         0        0
Foreign direct investment                   2        0          1       0                            D
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                            366
World Bank program
Commitments                                 4        5        76       40      A - IBRD                   E - 8ilateral
Disbursements                               4       19        31       41   | B-IDA    0- Other multilateral  F - Pnvrte
Principal repayments                        0        0         3        3      C - IMF                    G - Short-termn
Net tlows                                   4       19        27       37
Interest payments                           0        1         4        4
Net transfers                               4       18        24       34
Development Economics                                                                                            8/28/97



IBRD 28525
_4 M A L I     NIGER          \     2                               8                               4
T5\    '  NIGERA           g                    v $                         f           lhYttNIGER
D'VO<vX  ~ ~            ~~~                              4  -                                 dmmnfon nh
IEGERLA  /                                            V   dOIanv
,6T0                      p    tTh 9)                    20    40   60   80   Too
OWO RE 0110040                            /           do,o\ ~KILOMETERS
rS \ Bci~~~~~~~nikoara    Q
To.F        f    DE LA PENDJARINO.o\
_1SO                   OU W NR t   ' - Kandi m,
roL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooyooooo
r{'9' NATITINGOU;             Kouande         9    Sinende 6/ f ,
Sosan&cmNB3\oukoumb6   /"f'v"'''; /A                          Bemb'rieke            ,/Kalal6(.
Goou                                     NIGERdIABE
Mot6rJ                                                                                                 1997
Kobl'.-'  ukoniun
NATTINO Ut               K -uand6              0ren6ss                             
ATAKOR, Glazou6.                         /      PVD  OD
10,5t                  j \                               \1r                           NENAINLIPR
p   N  \     f<G?|ct                                      +  AIRFIEiLDSikk
T  \Didj  2 6ougr}oDITCTAPAL
LOKoisA )3t>c>    0  ZOeadoun3 1
GHANA A~~~~~~s   IANtu BJ'                                                  OF \
GRAVEL ~    ~     anar ROADS



