Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3073 BEN
Project Agreement
(Social Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
Agence de FINANCEMENT des Initiatives de Base
Date June 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3073 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and Agence de financement des Initiatives de Base (AGEFIB).
WHEREAS: (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,400,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions 
that AGEFIB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and AGEFIB, the 
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to AGEFIB on the terms and conditions set forth in said  Convention; 
and
WHEREAS AGEFIB, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGEFIB declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and AGEFIB shall otherwise agree, AGEFIB shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. AGEFIB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. AGEFIB shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Convention, the Operating Manual and the Administrative and Financial Procedure  
Manual.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGEFIB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGEFIB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Convention, the Operating Manual and the 
Administrative and Financial Procedure Manual, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit;
(b) 
AGEFIB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGEFIB of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Convention, the Operating Manual and the 
Administrative and Financial Procedure  Manual; and
(c)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, AGEFIB shall 
participate fully in the reviews referred to in paragraphs B.2 (b) and B.3 (a) of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) furnish to 
the Borrower and the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and 
in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
progress and status of the Project; (b) following each review, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project; and (c) take all measures on its part to organize, in conjunction with the 
Association and the Borrower, the workshop referred to in paragraph B.2 (e) of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGEFIB
Section 3.01. (a) AGEFIB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
(b)
AGEFIB shall ensure that the positions of Director General, Head of 
Finance and Accounting and Head of Monitoring and Evaluation, as well as coordinators 
for each of Part A, Part B and Part C of the Project, respectively, both in the AGEFIB 
Page  3
national office and in each of the four AGEFIB departmental offices, shall be kept 
filled at all times by persons, whose qualifications and experience shall have been 
communicated to the Association and found to be acceptable.
Section 3.02. AGEFIB shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, 
office space,  equipment, vehicles and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound technical, engineering, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03.  AGEFIB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGEFIB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) AGEFIB 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
have its administrative, technical and managerial performance for 
each fiscal year audited by said auditors, having regard to the 
provisions of the Statutes, and of this Agreement, the Convention, 
the Operating Manual and the Administrative and Financial 
Procedure  Manual;
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a)
This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AGEFIB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify AGEFIB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For AGEFIB:
Agence de Financement des Initiatives de Base
02 B.P. 287
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGEFIB, may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and AGEFIB shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE DE FINANCEMENT DES
INITIATIVES DE BASE
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Page  5
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000 or more but less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 
and 2 of this Part C, goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, as set forth in 
the Operating Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
Page  6
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for capacity building, training, Project 
auditing and third party post review under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for management of Subprojects under Part A of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Project evaluation under Part C of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for Project management, capacity building and Project evaluation under 
Part C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Parts A through C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Parts A through C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  7
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply provided that the exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms 
of reference for each such contract, assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Bank, amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
or amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $ 50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program 
A.
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGEFIB shall: (i) apply 
criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Operating Manual and the 
Administrative and Financial Procedure Manual, and (ii) not amend, or waive, or permit 
to be amended or waived, the Operating Manual and the Administrative and Financial 
Procedure Manual or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
AGEFIB shall take the action referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
2.
AGEFIB shall operate under the overall control of a Board of Directors whose 
composition shall be as indicated in the Statutes.
3.
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Director General, who shall be 
responsible for the day to day management of activities under the Project.
4.
The composition of each Departmental Screening Committee shall be as indicated 
in the Operating Manual. B.
Part A of the Project 
5.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless AGEFIB has 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines 
set forth in the Operating Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified below and in more detail in the Operating Manual, which shall 
include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(b)
the Subproject shall be submitted to AGEFIB by an Implementing Agency;
(c)
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of infrastructure referred 
to in Part A of the Project;
(d)
the Subproject is approved by the  Borrower’s Ministry responsible for 
the particular sector;
(e)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially, environmentally and 
technically sound in accordance with the criteria/parameters  specified in the 
Operating Manual;
(f)
adequate arrangements are in place for the financing of maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent costs, if any, related to the Subproject; and
(g)
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 10% of the estimated Subproject 
costs in the form of land, buildings, cash, materials, labor or other services. 
6.
Procedures
(a)
Applications for Grants to finance Subprojects shall be prepared by 
Beneficiaries, and submitted to the respective AGEFIB departmental office for its 
approval. Where the applications are in respect of Grants in excess of twenty million 
CFA Francs (CFAF 20,000,000), the AGEFIB departmental office concerned shall refer 
these applications to the Departmental Screening Committee for its approval.
(b)
Subject to the decision of the Departmental Screening Committee,  
applications for Grants in excess of twenty million CFA Francs (CFAF 20,000,000) shall 
be approved by the Director General. 
Page  8
7.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between AGEFIB and the Implementing Agency, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Operating Manual and the Administrative and Financial Procedure Manual, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound environmental, technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Part C (3) of Section I and Part C (1) of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of AGEFIB to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, work sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of AGEFIB to obtain all information as AGEFIB or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of AGEFIB to suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing 
Agency to use the proceeds of the Grant  for the Subproject upon failure by the 
Implementing Agency to perform any of its obligations under its Financing Agreement.
8.
AGEFIB shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as the case 
may be:
(a)
before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed annual work 
program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal 
year; and
(b)
semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of the Project, 
including regular beneficiary feedback reports and Subprojects completion reports. C.
Part B of the Project
9.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no formal financial 
institution shall benefit from social intermediation services eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Credit unless AGEFIB has determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Operating 
Manual, that the formal financial institution satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified below and in more detail in the Operating Manual, which shall include, inter 
alia, the following:
(a)
the financial institution shall have been carrying out financial 
activities for three (3) years at least, and shall have a competent staff;
(b)
the financial institution shall have maintained or published, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, its financial statements for the last 
three (3) fiscal years; and
(c)
the financial institution shall offer financial services appropriate to 
low income clients.
10.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no informal 
financial institution shall benefit from the provision of technical advisory services 
and training eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, and from the 
provision of Matching Grants, unless AGEFIB has determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Operating 
Manual, that the informal financial institution satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified below and in more detail in the Operating Manual, which shall include, inter 
alia, the following:
Page  9
(a)
the financial institution shall agree to be assisted by a Facilitator;
(b)
the financial institution shall have been carrying out its activities for 
two (2) years at least;
(c)
the financial institutions shall have  thirty (30) clients and members at 
least, the majority of which shall be women; and
(d)
the financial institution shall maintain written records and accounts 
albeit in simplified manner, and prepare financial statements.
11.
Procedures
Applications for Matching Grants shall be prepared by the concerned informal 
financial institutions with the assistance of a Facilitator, as the case may be, 
submitted to the AGEFIB national office or the respective AGEFIB departmental offices, 
as the case may be, and approved by the Director General. 
12.
Conditions of Matching Grant Agreements
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Matching Grant Agreements, to be 
concluded between AGEFIB and the concerned informal financial institution, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association which, inter alia, shall include the 
following:
(a)
financing from the Association shall be on a grant basis;
(b)
financing from the Association shall match the funds held by the informal 
financial institution for the concerned Subproject;
(c)
the informal financial institution shall agree to be assisted by a 
Facilitator chosen by AGEFIB, and to implement the Facilitator’s recommendations as 
needed to ensure sound use of the Matching Grant; and
(d)
the informal financial institution shall agree to apply lending rates 
sufficient to cover its operating costs, prudent risk provisioning and adequate 
profit.
