Page  1
June
1,
2001
His excellency Mr. Abdoulaye Bio-Tchan
é
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Cotonou, Republic of Benin
Mr. Lucien Afanou
Director General
Agence de Financement des Initiatives de Base
02
BP
287
Cotonou, Republic of Benin
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund  Grant for  the Benin
Child Protection Fund
-
Grant No. TF026598
 
Dear Sirs:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the
Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seven
hundred forty thousand US dollars
(US$740,000) (the Grant) to Agence de Financement 
des Initiatives de Base
(AGEFIB) (the Recipient) for the benefit of the Republic of 
Benin.
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance with the project described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter
Agreement
(the Project) and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and
conditions.
The Republic of Benin hereby confirms its support for, and its commitment to,
the objectives of the Project to be financed by the Grant, and to this end, hereby
undertakes to take all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Recipient to
carry out its obligations set forth in this Letter Agreement and the Annex and
Attachments hereto.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Republic of
Benin and on behalf of the Recipient, respectively, by countersigning and dating the
form of confirmation on the three original copies of this Letter Agreement, and
returning one original, as countersigned, to us.
Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of
this Letter Agreement countersigned by both of you, this Letter Agreement will become
effective as of the date of the countersignature of this Letter Agreement by the
authorized representatives of the Republic of Benin, or as of the date of
countersignature by the authorized representative of the Recipient, whichever is the
later.
 
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Antoinette Sayeh
Country Director for Benin
Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By
/s/
Abdoulaye Bio-Tchané
Minister of Finance
Page  2
Date: June 26, 2001
AGREED:
AGENCE DES INITIATIVES DE BASE
By
/s/
Lucien Afanou
Director General, AGeFIB
Date: June 26, 2001
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objective of the Project is to pilot methods for preventing further child 
labor migration and emigration, and the rescue and rehabilitation of current victims
of exploitative child trafficking. The Project is complementary to the Social Fund 
Project
(Credit No. 3073 BEN).
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
following activities
(Activities):
Part A:
Capacity Building
Provision of technical advisory services and training to: (i) the staff of the 
Recipient and the non-governmental organizations (NGOs), selected by the Recipient, 
that will implement Part B of the Project
(the Selected NGOs), in techniques for 
working with trafficked children and for reintegrating them; and
(ii) the staff of the 
Selected NGOs, in technical and administrative Project procedures and financial
management. In relation thereto, acquisition of necessary supplies.
The Activities to
be carried out under this Part A of the Project are estimated to cost US$180,000 
equivalent.
Part B:
Integrated Village Component 
(a)
Sensitization on child trafficking issues
Provision of sub-grants to Selected NGOs for the financing of the provision of 
information, education and communication services, by the relevant Selected NGOs, to
local rural communities in order to raise awareness of children and families, with
particular focus on household heads and village chiefs, on child trafficking issues;
in relation thereto, acquisition of necessary supplies.
(b)
Reeducation of child trafficking intermediaries
Provision of sub-grants to Selected NGOs for the financing of the provision of 
information, education and communication services, by the relevant Selected NGOs, to
recruiters of children in the villages for exploitative work in order to reeducate
them and encourage them to find alternative income generating activities; in relation
thereto, acquisition of necessary supplies.
(c)
Creation of Alternative Opportunities for at-risk families
Provision of sub-grants to Selected NGOs for: (i) the financing of the provision 
of training by the relevant Selected NGOs to at-risk families to encourage them to 
find alternative income generating activities in order to reduce the financial
incentive for child trafficking, and to highlight the benefit of completing primary
school; and
(ii)
the organization by the relevant Selected NGOs of leisure activities
for children, and, in relation thereto, the acquisition of equipment and the carrying
out of small works.
(d)
Sustainable reinsertion of trafficked children
Provision of sub-grants to Selected NGOs for the financing of the provision of 
Page  3
training by the relevant Selected NGOs to families whose trafficked children have been
returned in order to prevent recurrence of trafficking, and, in relation thereto, the
acquisition of necessary supplies.
The Activities to be carried out under this Part B of the Project are estimated
to cost US$494,000 equivalent.
Part C:
Evaluation and Monitoring
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to staff of the Recipient and 
the Selected NGOs, in order to strengthen their technical capacities to monitor and
evaluate the Activities.
(b)
Carrying out of two studies on: (i) the incidence of child labor 
migration; and
(ii) effectiveness in child reinsertion activities under Part B (d) of 
the Project, respectively.
The Activities to be carried out under this Part C of the Project are estimated
to cost US$66,000 equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project  with due diligence and 
efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering the Project and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request;
(d)
from time to
time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the
Project; and
(e)
take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the
territory of the Republic of Benin for purposes related to the Grant.
Without
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and
furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Project.
2.2.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) apply criteria, 
policies, procedures and guidelines set out in its Operating Manual and its
Administrative and Financial Procedure Manual; and
(ii)
not amend, or waive, or permit
to be amended or waived, the Operating Manual and the Administrative and Financial
Procedure Manual or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of IDA,
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Without limitation upon the foregoing provisions, no Activity under Part B of
the Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless
(i) the Recipient has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in its Operating Manual, that the relevant Selected NGO
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Recipient
’s Operating Manual, and
(ii) the relevant Activity shall be carried out pursuant to sub-grant agreements, to 
be concluded between the Recipient and the Selected NGOs, and to be satisfactory to
IDA, which, inter alia, shall include the terms and conditions specified in Attachment
I to this Annex and in more detail in the Recipient’s Operating Manual.
The Recipient
shall submit to IDA for its review, semiannual progress reports on the status of the
Project, including regular beneficiary feedback reports and Activities completion
reports.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of  Attachment II to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or
repair such goods.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as
Page  4
needed
.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Project:
Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works and
494,000
100% of foreign
services for sub-
expenditures, 100%
grants under Part B
of local expendi-
of the Proejct
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 94% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2)
Goods and supplies
34,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90%
of local
expenditures
(3)
Training
20,000
100%
(4)
Consultants' services
162,000
100%
(5)
Operating costs
30,000
90%
TOTAL
740,000
For purposes of this paragraph,
(i) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures 
in the currency of any country other than that of the Republic of Benin for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Republic of
Benin,
(ii) the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Republic of Benin is also
that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign
expenditures, and
(iii) the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation and supervision, including salaries of
locally contracted staff, travel, advertisements and mailings, but excluding salaries
of officials of the Recipient
’s civil service.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA ;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Republic of Benin;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or works and services supplied
from such territories; or
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, works if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2003 
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing
Date); and 
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph
4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
Page  5
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA
’s
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the
form specified by IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the General Director or such other person as he or she shall have
authorized in writing; and
(b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first
application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an amount
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.
IDA
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for
(i) goods and works  under contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) services  under contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as IDA 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year,
(A)
certified copies of the financial statements
referred to in paragraph
(a)
of this Section for such year as so audited, and
(B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
Page  6
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient or the Republic 
of Benin, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Benin, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit
agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the
effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-Grant Agreements to be Entered into between the 
Recipient and the Selected NGOs
The Activities under Part B of the Project shall be carried out pursuant to
sub-grant agreements, to be concluded between the Recipient and the Selected NGOs, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, which, inter alia, shall include the
following:
(a)
the obligation to carry out the relevant Activities in accordance with 
the Recipient
’s Operating Manual and the Recipient’s Administrative and Financial 
Procedure Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the relevant Activities;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Attachment II to this Annex; and
(ii)
such goods, works and services shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the relevant Activities;
(c)
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with IDA, if 
IDA shall so request, the goods, work sites and construction included in the relevant
Activities, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or 
IDA shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial
conditions of the relevant Activities; and
(e)
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
relevant Selected NGO to use the proceeds of the Grant for the relevant Activities
upon failure by the relevant Selected NGO to perform any of its obligations under its
sub-grant agreement with the Recipient.
Attachment II
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I
of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by IDA 
in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996, September
1997
and January
1999
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  7
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than
$30,000
equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Community Participation
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs
2
and
3
of this Part C, goods and
works required for Part B of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$600,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association, as set forth in the Recipient
’s Operating Manual.
Part D:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the
provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000
or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by IDA in January 1997 and revised in 
September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for services for the preparation of the final evaluation
survey under paragraph
1.2 (C) of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with
Page  8
the provisions of paragraph
2
.
7
of the Consultant Guidelines
.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the Activities managed by the Selected NGOs under paragraph
1.2 (B) 
of the Annex may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs
3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
 2.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical specialists and training under paragraph
1.2 (A), (B) and 
(C) of the Annex shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1
through
5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants
’
services shall be
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA,
and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph
2
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be awarded
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Attachment III
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph
4.2
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFA Francs 
120,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
Page  9
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, IDA
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the basis of each
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph
5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or,
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless IDA shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
Page  10
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such
outstanding amount.
