DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Pubtic Use
iLe  IoPy            Report No. P-1162-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
December 29, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECQMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CN A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$25 million on
standard IDA terms to the Industrial Development Bank of India to
finance small and medium scale enterprises through 18 State Financial
CC)trporations.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.          The most recent economic report,   "Economic Situation and
Prospects of India" (SA-32a, dated May 10, 1972), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 2, 1972. This report estimated that, for
the Indian Fiscal Year ending on March 31, 1972, the economy grew at
significantly less than 4 percent. For the current year, growth is
expected to be even lower, and indeed there is the prospect that there
may not be any growth at all. The principal factor in the decline this
year has been the serious failure of the monsoon. In comparing the rate
of economic growth achieved over the past two yearswith the average of
5 percent p.a. experienced during the preceding two years, account should
be taken of the fact that the Indian economy underwent two years of bad
weather in a period of sharply falling foreign aid and provided substantial
economic assistance to Bangladesh.
3.          Until the beginning of 1972, performance in the industrial
sector had been especially disappointing, with a downward trend from a growth
rate of 7.1 percent in 1969 to 4.5 percent in 1971. However, the figure
for 1971 obscures some improvement which began to take place during the last
quarter and which was sustained during the first quarter of 1972. Over
these six months industrial production increased by 7.2 percent compared with
the same period the year before. But this improvement now has to be qualified
first because much of it was confined to the textile industry which recovered
from the effects of a severe shortage of raw cotton and secondly because recent
data indicate that no further increase in industrial output occurred during
the latter part of 1972. The factors which have brought about this situation
include lack of demand for certain capital goods, shortage of imported raw
materials, labor unrest, power shortages, as well as managerial difficulties,
especially in the steel industry. Cumbersome administrative procedures in
applying industrial policy have also aggravated the situation. These factors
have been present in varying degrees almost continuously over the past decade
with the result that India's industrial potential has yet to be fully realized.
What marks out the last 3 years is the severity of the deceleration in
industrial activity notwithstanding the modest reprieve gained in the early
part of 1972. The Government of India (GOI) recognizes that fresh initiatives musi
be taken through industrial policy measures and the Association has recently held
discussions in India on a possible role for IDA and Bank in aiding the Government.
is too early to state any conclusions beyond noting that the GOI is reviewing its



- 2   -
approach to industry as a wholet and to steel and fertilizer in particular.
4.          Agricultural production registered an increase of over five
percent in each of the first two years of the Fourth Plan, with foodgrain
production reaching 108 million tons in 1970/71. In 1971/72 foodgrain
production was affected by rather indifferent weather, with the result that
only an estimated 106 million tons were produced. This year weather con-
ditions have been disastrous with a complete failure of the monsoon in both
the west and east sides of the country, an unusual occurrenee. Meaningful
estimates have still to be made but clearly production of summer foodgrains
will be substantially below last year's level.   The current winter crop
has also been adversely affected by lack of rain, with the result that India
is likely to endure very serious shortages of food over large parts of
the country. The Government had hoped that large foodgrain stocks buil-t up
between 1968 and 1970 would be adequate to meet requirements in bad years.
But the combined effect of supplying foodgrain to Bangladesh and the severity
of the drought this year has led to foodgrain stocks being reduced by about
a half, to 3-4 million tons at the end of 1972. These stocks are now being
depleted at a rate of one million tons a month. The Government has decided
to import about two million tons of foodgrains and more may be required if
the winter crop does not recover from the initial lack of rain. Other crops
have also been affected. Jute and, to a lesser extent, cotton production are
expected to be lower, while the shortage of oil seeds could be quite severe
with the resulting need for higher imports.
5.          In the present situation, the generally favorable   trend in
agricultural production over the past several years should not be overlooked.
Even if this year's foodgrain crop should be between 95 and 100 million tons,
it would still be significantly above that obtained in the last serious
drought year, 1965/66, when production reached only 72 million tons. This
would indicate that the considerable investments in irrigation facilities,
fertilizer, and other agricultural inputs have had the effect of reducing
the impact of droughts. If yields this year remain high on irrigated land
in spite of adverse weather conditions, and reports of good crops in the Punjab
and Haryana are favorable indications, this will confirm the success of the
new technology and highlight the need to broaden its use within India.
6.          The wholesale price index increased at a rate of 7.5 percent
between April 1972 and August 1972. An important factor has been the rapid
increase of food prices, which went up by 13 percent over this period reflecting
expected foodgrain shortages. In an effort to control inflation, the Government
has limited the overdraft facilities available to State governments, previously
a source of deficit spending, and is considering measures to control more
effectively the level of foodgrain prices, but such steps are likely to be
offset by the relief programs necessitated by the drought.
7.          India's net reserve position at the end of August was US$1,180
million or the equivalent of 38 percent of annual imports, plus debt service
payments. Reserves have fallen by nearly US$100 million since March 1972.
Further pressure on the country's declining reserves from foodgrain imports is
inevitable. On the export side, recent estimates indicate a 10 percent increase
in exports between April and August this year, as compared with the corres-



-3-
ponding period last year. But overall, the rate of growth of exports has been
slow in the recent past while uncertainty surrounds future levels of net aid.
In the circumstances, India should clearly continue to receive substantial aid
from IDA.
8.          A draft document setting out the approach to the Fifth Plan for the
period 1974/75 to 1978/79 has already been approved by the Planning Commission
and is now under review by the cabinet. Economic self-reliance and the
elimination of poverty are held to be the major tasks of the Fifth Plan. In
the light of the experience of the Fourth Plan, considerable effort will be
required to achieve the 5.5 percent annual growth which is the target for Lhe
Fifth Plan period.
9.          A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
10.         Since 1949 the Bank has made 40 loans and 45 development credits
to India totalling US $1,110 million and US $1,931 million (both net of can-
cellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US $554 million has been repaid
and US $772 million is still undisbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement
of disbursements as of November 30, 1972, and notes on the status of currently
active loans and credits.
11.         Since 1957 IFC has made 13 commitments in India totalling US
$42.3 million of which US $4.3 million has been repaid, US $7.0 million sold
and US $6.0 million cancelled. Of the balance of US $25.0 million, US $16.9
million represents loans and US $8.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of November 30, 1972, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
12.         The emphasis of Bank Group assistance to India in recent years
has been on agriculture and agriculture-related projects. This reflects the
importance of agriculture, which contributes about 50 percent of India's GNP,
and the corresponding investment priorities of the Government. In addition
to the Agricultural Universities project, which was signed on November 10, and
the proposed credit for Nangal Fertilizer project to be presented to the Board
soon, projects in agricultural credit, in agro-industries, and in agricultural
markets are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors
this fiscal year.
13.         While the emphasis of Bank Group assistance will be on agriculture,
lending to industry will also be a prominent feature of the program for this
fiscal year. Assistance to the industrial sector will concentrate on the
support of development finance institutions through, first of all, the pro-
posed credit and secondly a tenth loan to the Industrial Credit and Invest-
ment Corporation of India. Industry will further benefit from an eighth
Industrial Imports credit which will be submitted later. In addition to agri-
culture and industry, assistance to infrastructure will be proposed through
further projects for power transmission, telecommunications and urban develop-
ment. With regard to the last mentioned, India's large cities, particularly



Bombay and Calcutta, require major investment in public services to keep
up with the growth of their populations; accordingly, a Bombay water supply
and sewerage project and an urban development project in Calcutta are also
included in this year's program.
PART III - SMALL-SGALE INDUSTRY SECTOR
14.         GOI has placed considerable emphasis upon this sector because
it is seen as an important factor in employment creation and the development of
industrially backward areas; it also promotes entrepreneurship and broadens
income distribution. The GOI defines small-scale industry as a unit which
has investment in plant and equipment below Rs. 750,000 or about US $100,000
(for ancilliary manufacturers of components for larger enterprises, the limit
is Rs. 1 million) and these units are presently estimated to contribute about
50 percent of value added originating from manufacturing. Data on the sector
are scarce and, as a consequerwe, it is difficult to quantify the gro;it-l in
output over recent years. But there are indications that it has probablv
been higher than the average rate in recent years for larger industrie-
Employment is estimated to total 7 million and special efforts are being made
to develop labor intensive units.
15.         In recent years, the GOI has introduced a number of incernu  _s
ranging from low interest rates and other terms of concessionary financing
to protection from competition by larger enterprises. GOI has also given
priority to the development of districts designated as backward areas wh- ch
account for 60 percent of India's area and 53 percent of its population.
Incentives offered in these areas include grants and other concessionarry
financing terms.
16.         Despite these benefits and the good showing of the small-scale
sector in the recent past, small enterprises face numerous problems. These include
low capacity utilization due to raw material shortages, lack of qualified workers
and entrepreneurs, delays in import license clearance by Government, and in-
sufficient access to the latest technology, thus s'Lowing quality improvement which
inhibits the realization of the sector's export potential. Lack of investment
capital has also been significant, especially for use for imported goods. The
small sector has had much more limited access to foreign lines of credit 'than
larger enterprises have had, and thus has been particularly affected by India's
balance of payments difficulties.
17.         A special report on this sector entitled "Small-Scale Industry in
India (SA-33a), dated May 22, 1972, and circulazd to the Executive Directors
on June 16, 1972, was prepared by the Association in cooperation with the Swedish
International Development Agency (SILA). It indicated that, although the most
urgent requirement of the small-scale sector was more imported raw materials,
the sector also needed imported capital equipment, which this credit will help
finance. The report noted that there was a need for some rationalization of



incentive schemes and of the agencies involved. In particular it emphasized the
need for reform of the import licensing system as it affects the sector. GOI
has increased licenses for imports progressively over the past two years and in-
tends to continue meeting requirements on a liberal basis. However, the system
of calculating allocations needs modification and some changes introduced in
March 1972 should go a long way towards improving the system, although implemen6ito:
is likely to be slow.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
18.         The purpose of the credit would be to assist in financing small
scale industrial investments sponsored by the State Financial Corporations
(SFCs); it would also support the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
in its task of improving the SFCs. The credit would mark a significant new
development for the Bank Group, for it would be the first direct contribution
towards the small-scale industry sector in India, and the first systematic effort
to deal with industry outside the main industrial centers. The credit would
involve, not only providing some of the capital requirements of the small-scale
industry sector, but also a systematic effort to upgrade the work of the 18
financial institutions whose principal task is to finance the sector.
19.         IDBI, a fully-owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
established in 1964, has been active in identifying and financing gaps in the
industrial structure and in coordinating, as an apex institution, the activities)
of other industrial term-financing institutions at the national and State levels - l
At the State level, SFCs have been playing an increasingly important role vis-a-   -
vis the small-and-medium-scale sectors. Recently, about 75 percent of their 
lending has been for units in the small-scale sector.                      l     -@
20.         Because of their operational flexibility and their locations,     L'
SFCs are in a good position to deal with a number of the problems faced by
small-scale industrial enterprises. They are the principal State-level insti-
tutions in India specializing in term-financing of projects in the small- and
medium-scale industrial sectors. There are 18 SFCs. Most were created pur-
suant to an Act passed in 1951. The loan business of SFCs has greatly accel-
erated in the past three years, increasing by about 50 percent annually. Over-
all, the 18 SFCs account for a volume of operations (approvals totaled Rs. 640
million in 1971/72) second only to IDBI's.
21.         The SFCs' business outlook is favorable and a growth of 18 percent
per annum is expected through 1975. This growth rate, although ambitious,
should be attainable in view of the SFCs' past performance and the buoyancy
of the small-scale sector; it is also in line with the investment target of
the Fourth Plan. To carry out this lending program, SFCs will continue to
depend primarily on bond issues and borrowings from IDBI for refinance. During



- 6 -
a two-year period ending March 1975, SFCs need additional resources of about
Rs.1,130 million, of which Rs.334 million ($42 million) are for the import of
machinery and equipment. Of the total gap, DBI is projected to provide about
Rs.l,000 million (US $125 million), of which $25 million would be covered by
the proposed credit.
22.         There are significant variations among the SFCs in their capacities
to appraise projects, in the quality of their staff, and in their profitability,
operations and resources. Some SFCs have built up a well-qualified cadre of
staff, their appraisals are adequate and their portfolios sound. But the work
of most SFCs needs to be upgraded. To make SFCs more effective instruments
for coping with the needs of small- and medium-scale enterprises, requires both
closely coordinated and individual attention by an instrument that is familiar
with the SFCs' operations, procedures, resources, strengths and problems.
23.         IDBI is such an instrument; moreover it is in a unique position to
deal with the problems of SFCs. The relationship between IDBI/RBI and +tie SFCs
comprises ownership (22 percent of SFCs' share capital is owned by :DBVILBIi),
Board membership, policy influence through inspections and IDBI's leading role
in setting interest rates, granting technical assistance and, most importantly,
providing capital. IDBI/RBI are the largest single source of finance 7     SFCs,
accounting for 27 percent of their outstanding resources. IDBI is thus in a
position be an effective influence on the SFCs. This conclusion is underlined
by IDBI's position of leadership among term-financing institutions and b- its
important role in the economy.
24.         The scale of its operations makes IDBI the largest single source of
institutional finance in India. In its direct operations, IDBI has concen-
trated on the large-scale sector and the leading dynamic sectors of industry,
especially chemicals. Through its indirect activitites, IDBI has been an im-
portant source of funds for term-lending institutions and has had a major
influence on the development of the small-scale sector and backward areas.
Especially in the past few years, IDBI has played a leading promotional role
in surveying backward areas and in identifying project possibilities.
25.         Although IDBI operates within the broad framework of Government
policy, it enjoys substantial autonomy and financial decisions are made on
sound business principles. Over the eight years of its existence, IDBI has
developed into a sound institution. Its staff is competent and well-qualified,
its Board is strong and its appraisal of projects is thorough and efficient.
IDBI also appraises large and/or technologicali, complex projects, where
financing is arranged on a consortium basis with other national and State
financial institations.



- 7 -
26.         IDBI is thus a creditworthy borrower and is in a position to
implement a program to upgrade the operations of the SFCs. To this end, a
development program for the SFCs has been prepared by IDBI and the Association;
it has already been agreed in principle by each SFC. The individual programs
have been tailored to the situation of each individual SFC but the objective
throughout is a phased program to strengthen staff as appropriate, especially
on the engineering side, and to improve follow up; to reach specified targets
for improvement in arrears collection; and to meet targets for debt service
coverage. In addition to these individual development programs, IDBI has
prepared, with the approval of the Association, operating guidelines for
project appraisal, follow up, procurement and disbursements, to be followed
by all the SFCs. Under the Project Agreement, an SFC would be eligible to
obtain refinancing from IDBI from the proceeds of this credit, only when it
had adopted the development program and the general operating guidelines,
and are implementing them satisfactorily. Any lapse from conformity with the
guidelines or the development program would mean loss of access to the credit.
Moreover, IDBI would be required to premature the portion of the proceeds of
the credit which had been disbursed to a particular SFC, if that SFC failed to
meet its debt service coverage target.
27.         The proposed credit of US $25 million would make available foreign
exchange to cover the major part of the estimated US $42 millon required in
f6reign exchange over the next two years for investment projects sponsored by
SFC-s.--he--bzal-a-'n-ce''6f'the foreign exchange''re'quirement will be mot by GOI.' The
amount of the credit has been set at US $25 million in view of the complexity of
the project and of the need for the Association to gain operational experience
of the two tiered structure involving IDBI and SFCs. The proceeds of the credit
would be relent by GOI to IDBI at an interest rate of 5-3/4 percent for a period
of 15 years.  IDBI in turn would use the funds to refinance projects put forward
by SFCs, which would pay interest a_nt; ultimate borrowers would pay at
least 9 percent. The SFCswouldrepay IDBI as they are repaid by their clients,
on the basis of amortization schedules determined by the circumstances and
requirements of the individual enterprises and projects, but not more than 15
years. The proceeds of the credit would be available to finance, not only capital
equipment but also initial stocks of associated raw materials and spare parts
required in establishing a new enterprise or increasing the capacity of an existin4
one.
28.         Loans by SFCs to medium and small enterprises would be eligible for
refinancing if they include a requirement for imported goods.  In view of the
large number of 'suchprojects.(some 2,000),. it would not be practicable to disbursE
the credit against identified import requirements.  Instead, thie beneficiaries
wiili apply for foreign exchange through normal channels to cover their import
requirement.  In order to reduce the administrative work load on the SFCs and IDBI,
as well as on the Association, a simplified disbursement procedure has been agreed.
The SFCs would receive appropriate documentation judged satisfactory by the
Association)from their clients before disbursing to them. Those SFCs would certify



- 8 -
to the IDBI that they had disbursed for eligible projects, and IDBI would
refinance on the basis on that certification. In turn, IDBI would from time
to time certify to the Association that it had disbursed a given sum to refinance
eligible loans, the principal facts about which would already have been made
known to the Association. The Association would disburse an agreed percentage
of IDBI's outlay, which would be based on the estimated average import content
of investment projects of the kind financed by SFCs.
29.         The institutional development which IDBI will undertake will not
be easy or quick of achievement. The result will be of considerable significance
to a vital sector of India's economic life.
30.         The project was appraised in October/November 1971 and negotiations
took place in Washington in November 1972. The Borrower was represented by
Mr. G. Venkataraman, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, and Mr. N. Sethuraman,
Director, Department of Banking.  IDBI was represented by Mr. V. V. Chari,
Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of India, Mr. V. S. Raghavan, Manager, IDBI,
Mr. S. A. Naik, Manager, IDBI, and Mr. H. R. Kameth, Deputy Manager, IDBI.
31.         A project summary is attached at Annex III.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
32.         The Draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
International Development Association, the draft Project Agreement between
IDBI and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the
Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The draft agreements generally conform
to the usual pattern for credits to development finance companies, subject to
the conditions of eligibility referred to in paragraph 26. There are no special
conditions of effectiveness.
33.         I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
34.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments:
December 29, 1972



W s  s *  -lrS  iN                              s      ,                     u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-  r   s  S s1 b               f             As !s          g 1 rSi            t1                  l, a
$1l . |   ^  s -|             t  tE"^-| 8 | t3-    2      |    ,, 55,         p  *:^No;                      ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
'' "' T -tw; ''  '' 0 =   -: ;^Q8  .  2 '.Er.  i ,9' s E  g   ' ^                               | t Qi:         ]v~~~~~~~~~;19 '
t}     n l_3  E os;ig                       ..gSE'Bu'                      E             ^t           t                      f
3                                                                    S                 (s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
-1                    |   e;.P.Eg1 8°!   i S   s°                      R e|~_ | SX N                     t>t
.  .  hl tiC *, X of        4L - ,
e|   ;2 ffi _ a - >& 8-- 5  S >  W  O S. g  E i O W c>* | > 0s               c~
f~  <1git  e
t r a ^ - , 1 e c r F 1. | ° - ! ffi^~~~ ! c > _fg "2 ^ S 8 ° ge o j | a t- '
< :                                                            t                                   ti tH r  u)      1 8s   1Rjg4F. 






Annex I
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPFErAT'IONS IN INDIA
A. SSTATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of November 30, 1972D
Loan or                                                                               Und
Credit No.    Year   Borrower            Purpose                     Bank     IDA      bur
(in US $ million)
33 Loans/
24 Credits fully disbursed   (Net of Cancellations)                 876.4   1,143.
307-IN     1961     IISCO       Coal Mining                       19.5      -         2
414 -IN    *3.965    ICICI      Industry DFC VI                    48.3      -        1
b9-IN     1966      India      Beas Equipment                    -         23.0      5
515-IN     1967      ICICI      Industry DFC VII                  25.0       -        I
614-IN     1969      India      Tarai Seeds                       13.0.      -       10
615-IN     1969     India       Telecommunications III            27.5       -        2
176-IN     1970     India       Kadana Irrigation                 -         35.0     26
683-IN     1970     ICICI       Industries DFC VIII               40.0      -        U
191-IN     1970     India       Gujarat Agric. Credit             -         35.0     31
203-3I     1970     India       Punjab Agric. Credit                        27.5     27
226-iN     1971      India      Andhra Pradesh Agric. Credit      -         24.4     21
230-IN     1971     India       Agro-Aviation                     -          6.0      6
241-IN     1971     India       Teleoommurnications IV            _         78.0     75
242-IN     1971     India       Power TranLimioalon II            -         75.0     7:
2I19-TN    1971     India       Haryana Agric. Credit             -         25.0     2L
250-IN     1971     India       Tamil Nadu Agric. Credit          -         35.0     34
264-IN     1971     India       Coohin II Fertilizer              -         20.0     15
267- 3     1971     India       Wheat Storageo                    -          5.0
268-IN     1971     India       Poohampad Irrigation              -         39.0     25
789-IN     1971     IOIOI       Induatry DFO IX                   60.0       -       5C
278-DI     1971     India       Mysore Agric. Credit              -         40.0     4C
279-11     1971     India       Gorakhpur Fertilizer              -         10.0     iC
280-D;     1971      India      Railways XI                       -         75.0     4,
293-2N     19}72    India      Maharashtra Agric. Credit          -         30^0     3C
294-IN     1972     India       Bihar Agrio. Marketo              -         1)4.0    11
312-IN     1972     India      Population                         -         21.2     23
328-IN     1972.    India       Shipping                          -         83.0    8f
327-IN     1972     India       Industrial Imports VII            -         75.0     5(
342-IN     1972     India       Eduoation Projeot                           12.0    1<
Total (leas cancellation)                                      1,109.7   1,931.2
of which has been repaid                                      552.4        1.3
Total now outstanding                                            557.3   1,929.9
Amount sold                     111.5
of which has been repaid     109.7                              1.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 5         1,929.9
Total undisbursed                                                 80.7     691.8
*Notye= =ei  = 3 of-  = = = _3  =
*Not yet effective as of 11/30/72



Annex II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IF'C INV3ME1TS
(as of November 30, 1972)
Year                    Company                  Loan        F4uity         Total
(in U5 TiUion) -
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.       1.5          -             1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Lts.        0.9          -             0.9
1960            Assam Silliman.ite Lts.           1.4          -             1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                 0.2          -             0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.     0.7         0.3            1.0
1964           Forst Gloster Industries Lt.       0.8         0.4            1.2
1964           Mahindra Urine Steel Co. Ltd.      2.3         1.0            3.3
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.        1.0         0.3            1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.           1.0         0.1            1.1
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.            8.6         2.9           11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.        15.1         3.8           18.9
TOTAL                             33.5        8.8           42.3
Less sold, repaid and cancelled   16.6        0.7           17.3
Now held                          16.9        8.1           25.0
Undisbursed                        3.3                       3.3



Annex II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 2/
1.        Loan 307-D-Indian Iron and Steel Company. This loan was made in 1961.
The implementation of the project has been affected by technical and managerial
difficulties connected with the opening of new collieries to supply IISCO's steel
plant. The Bank, together with technical consultants, has been providing con-
stant supervision and progress is being made in resolving the technical issues.
On the managerial side, the Government of India announced on July 20, 1972 that
it was taking over the management of IISCO for two years. The Government has
stated that this action will not interfere with IISCO's obligations to the Bank.
On November 30, 1972, US$2 million remained undisbursed of which about US$1.25
million has been earmarked for equipment on order and technical services, while
US$0.75 million may be cancelled by the closing date of December 1973. A
review mission recently examined IISCO's rehabilitation program and its
financing requirements.
2.          Loan 414-IN, 515-IN, 683-IN, 789-IN - Sixth, Seventh, Eighth and
Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Projects. These
loans have supported industrialization in India through a well-established
development finance company. There have been delays in disbursements on the two
earliest loans 414-IN and 515-IN as a result of the business slowdown in the
years following 1967. The closing date  for 414-IN has been extended to June 30,
1973. ICICI has taken steps to overcome delays in disbursements and has been
utilizing the funds provided in the two most recent loans 683-IN and 789-IN at a
rate faster than anticipated.
3.        Credit 89-IN - Beas Equipment. The purpose of this credit is to provide
part of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and services required to
develop hydroelectric power from the Beas River, to extend irrigation in the
Punjab and Rajasthan and for associated construction works. The project, which
has been subject to some delays, is part of a larger scheme for the integrated
development of the eastern rivers of the Indus Basin. The balance of the credit
outstanding is to be spent on items scheduled for delivery over the next 12-18
months. As a result, the original closing date of December 31, 1972 has been
postponed to December 31, 1973.
4.        Loan 614-IN - Tarai Seeds. This loan to the Tarai Development Corporatio
is to assist in the development of seeds of high yielding varieties of crops. Bids
for equipment of one of the two seed-processing plants have been rejected because
these bids are considered to be unresponsive; the matter is under review. In
addition, a major difficulty arose because of a lack of response to tenders for
land-levelling. As a result of these various delays, a mission visited the project
to review the situation and has now proposed certain changes which should ensure
the execution of the pro.Ject.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



Annex II
Page 4
5.        Loan 615-IN and Credit 153-IN - Telecommunications III.  The project,
which was financed 50 percent by a Bank loan and 50 percent by an IDA credit was
designed to assist in financing the telecommunications expansion program for the
first three years of the Fourth Plan period (1969-1972). Credit 153-IN was
disbursed fully three months prior to the closing date, but the closing date for
Loan 615-IN has had to be postponed from December 31, 1972 to June 30, 1973.
Although disbursements have taken place broadly in line with the original schedule,
there have been delays in meeting project targets of about nine months for local
exchange installations and up to two years for long distance network, resulting
from difficulties experienced by local factories and delivery delays of some key
items. In recent months the situation has improved especially at the local
factories.
6.        Credit 176-IN - Kadana Irrigation.  This project will finance in
part the construction of Kadana Dam on the Mahi River, the expansion of the
irrigated area below the dam, and the resettlement of inhabitants in the
reservoir area in the States of Gujarat and Rajasthan. The project also
includes canlization, land levelling, the construction of field channels,
drainage works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development.
The project is likely to be completed about two years behind schedule. A
major problem has been the failure of the prime contractor on the dam itself;
the Government was forced to discharge this contractor in October 1971 and to
undertake the work by departmental force account. Since that time the Public
Works Department has been making satisfactory progress. Drainage works in the
right bank area are likely to be more extensive and more costly than expected
and may not be completed until 1978. The outlook for other components of the
project remains satisfactory.
7.        Credits 191-IN, 203-IN, 226-IN, 249-IN, 250-IN, and 293-IN - Agricultural
Credit Projects in Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Mysore
and Maharashtra.   Of these seven agricultural credit projects, which total
US$216.9 mlllion, the Maharashtra project is not yet effective and Mysore project
has only recently been declared effective (September 25, 1972). With the exception
of the Punjab project, which has only a mechanization component, all are similar
in structure, being designed to provide long and medium-term credit to farmers
through credit institutions and the commercial banks for such on-farm investments
as tractors, minor irrigation and land-levelling. Such projects are character-
istically slow disbursing since they are complex and involve very large numbers
of small loans to individuals, each of which has to be appraised and processed.
Nevertheless, implementation and disbursement have been much slower than was
originally anticipated. By November 30, 1972 only US$3.3 million out of US$35
million had been disbursed under the first of the series to be approved - the
Gujarat project, which became effective in September 1970 and which has a closing
date of June 30, 1974. No disbursements have been made in the Punjab project
and only relatively small amounts have been disbursed in the other three projects.
In all US$7.4 had been disbursed by November 30, 1972.
There are a number of factors which have contributed to the situation,
the most important of which, quantitatively, are the problems which have been
encountered in the procurement of tractors (which account for almost 30 percent
of the credits). Two events, the imposition by the Government of India of a
30 percent import duty and the realignment of the rates of exchange of international
currencies, were mainly responsible for delays, although difficulties were also
experiencedin finalizing tender documents. Only in the case of Gujarat credit did
an order for the first tranche of tractors predate these events and in that case
disbursements are being made. The effect of the duty was to increase prices of
imported tractors



Annex II
Page 5
so considerably that doubts were raised as to whether effective demand for
such models remained. These doubts have still to be put to the test. The
exchange realignment was instrumental in distorting bid prices to the extent
that, at the last momnent, the Government decided to withdraw the Punjab tender
and to re-advertise. Only recently have fresh bids been received and it is
hoped that prices will shortly be advertised to farmers in the case of the Punjab
credit. Tender invitations in the case of the other credits are delayed pending
the results obtained in the Punjab case.
It is still uncertain whether the full number of tractors involved in
these credits (some 21,000) will, in fact, be required. If they are not, con-
sideration will have to be given to restructuring the projects by the re-allocatio:
of proceeds to other components or to cancellation. The situation should become
clearer in the next few months. If a requirement for net imports remains and
if effective demand has been restored, disbursement should be fairly rapid.
The long delays experienced in disbursing against the minor irrigation
components of these credits have stemmed from the need to establish in the
States, Groundwater Directorates capable of providing the technical advice and
appraisal required if an economic utilization of groimdwater is to be obtained
and if investments are not to lead to overinvestment or under-utilization of
scarce resources. Tle establishment and staffing of these organizations has
been a prolonged process but there are now indications that lending for minor
irrigation is procecding satisfactorily and further delays in disbursement are
not anticipated.
In several credits, the delays caused by such time-consuming institutional
reform have been exacerbated by resistance to the more stringent lending terms
imposed by the credits which have caused farmers to seek finance from sources
other than those to be refinanced by IDA. This particular problem now seems to
have beeii overcome as interest rates in the sector and other lending conditions
stabilize around the norms established by these projects.
A mission has recently visited India to assess in detail the difficulties
and constraints being encountered with project implementation and disbursements
and will shortly be making recommendations for changes considered necessary to
accelerate performance.
8.          Credit 230-IN - Agro-Aviation.   The project was designed to improve
facilities for aerial spraying of pesticides, as part of India's plant protection
program.  So far no disbursements have taken place because the Government is
reconsidering the procuremnent arrangements for the importation of aircraft. The
matter  is now before a Cabinet Sub-Committee and the Association is awaiting the
Government's decision.
9.          Credit 241-IN - Telecommunications IV. This project is a continuation
of Telecomlnunications III and has been designed to support the telecommunications
expansion program over the last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74).   Procure-
ment action for delivery of imnported goods in 1973/7L has been largely completed.






Annex III
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               India acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:         Small- and medium-scale enterprises through 18 State
Financial 'orporations (SFCs) which will in turn re-
ceive the proceeds of this credit through the Inlustrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI).
Amount:                 US$25.0 million.
Purpose:               To assist IDBI in using its refinance mechanism to finance
imported goods and services required to develop small- and
medium-scale industrial enterprises in India, and to im-
prove the performance and effectiveness of the ¶3Cs servin,
this sector.
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms to the Government of India (GOI) for
onlending to IDBI at an effective rate of interest of
5-3/4 percent per annum to be reoaid to GOI in 15 years
(including 3 years period of grace) from the date of the
first withdrawal. IDBI will onlend to SFCs at an interest
rate of not less than 6-1/2 percent while the SFCs in
turn will lend to the investment enterprises at a rate
of not less than 9 percent per annwn. The maturity of
loans made by SFCs to sub-projects and of any refinancing
of these loans by IDBI will be determined by the circunn-
stances and requirements of the sub-project.
Final date for sub-
project submission:    June 30, 1975.
Free Limit:            Investment Projects eligible for proceeds from the
credit for which IDBI provides refinancing in excess of
Rs. 1 million will be referred to the Association.
Procurement:          Ordinary commercial channels.
Commitment and
Disbursement:          Commitment of the credit is scheduled by June 1975 and
full disbursement by June 1977. Disbursement would be
made in the form of reimbursing IDBI an agreed percentage
(40 percent) of its outlays in refinancing loans made by
SFCs to eligible projects.
Appraisal Report:      DB-95a of December 19, 1972.






N~
'1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 1
X~~~~ \s     -  - 
< ! u~~~Ci                                    T I  B ET ,
'       <X'                               \     .   f    'i .  BHUTA
~~~~~~~~?S5         3~ '  -                   c f-   e
INDIA
DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIALLY
BACKWARD AREAS
m   \~~~~~~~~ ¢ X > < * D rtsi        D+s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[~tr,cr hendarres
SFC-H..d offi,e
.   7   )                             *. .                         0* 18 12
_  Y..*                          , I*-,d
r,GEYLON
T'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,                              0



