DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. DB-95a
APPRAISAL OF A LINE OF CREDIT
TO THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
FOR THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
INDIA
December 19, 1972
Asia Projects Department: DFC Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                          Rs 8.0*
Rs 1                  =           US$ 0.125
Rs 10 million          =          US$ 125,000
Rs 1.0 billion                    U US$ 125 million
* The central rate reported to IMF is Rs 7.279 per US$ 1. However, the
actual rate fluctuates as the Rs-is pegged to the British £ which has
been floating vis-a-vis the US$ since June 23, 1972.
ABBREVIATIONS
DGTD         Directorate General for Technical Development
GOI          Government of India
ICICI        Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI         Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI         Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IFD          Industrial Finance Department of the RBI
IRCI         Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India
LIC          Life Insurance Corporation
NIC (LTO)    National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund
NSIC         National Small Industries Corporation
RBI          Reserve Bank of India
RCI          Refinance Corporation for Industry
SBI          State Bank of India
SDI          State Directorate of Industry
SFC          State Financial Corporation
SIDC         State Industrial Development Corporation
SIIC         State Industrial Investment Corporation
SISI         Small Industries Service Institute
SSIDO        Small Scale Industries Development Organization
TIIC         Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation
TCSC         Technical Consultancy Service Center
UTI          Unit Trust of India
FISCAL YEARS
GOI, SFCs:                  April 1 - March 31
RBI, IDBI:                  July 1 - June 30
This report was prepared by Messrs. Nobuo Takaramura, Ernst Loeschner
and Yoshito Kimura following visits to India in October/November 1971
and in November 1972.



THE APPRAISAL OF A LINE OF CREDIT
TO THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
FOR THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page        Paragraph
SUMMAR   .................    i - iii                             1-11
I.  INTRODUCTION  .       ..............              1l           l.0l-1.04
II.  ECONONIC ENVIRONMENT AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE  ...  2 - 11        2.01-2.43
Industrial Trends  ........   ................  2 - 3     2.01-2.06
Financing of Industrial Investment  .......  3 - 4        2.07-2.12
Small-Scale Industrial Sector  .........  *..    4 - 11   2.13-2.43
III.   THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS  ............ .. 12 - 26      3.01-3.55
A. SFCs' Operations  ........................... 12 - 14       3.01-3.11
Scope of Operations .......   ................ 12 - 13    3.02-3.05
Operations in the Small-Scale Sector  ..... 13            3.06-3.09
Relations with Other Financial Institutions  14           3.10-3.11
B. Institutional Aspects.....   14 - 26                        3.12-3.53
Ownership  ................................ 14            3 . 12 -3.13
Relations with the State Governments  ..... 15            3.14
Board, Management and Staff ............. .. 15 - 16      3.15-3.19
Resources  . ............................... 16 - 17      3.20-3.23
Policies and Practices  .................. . 18 - 19      3.24-3.30
Procedures .    ............................... 19 - 20   3.31-3.36
Portfolio and Financial Record  .......... . 20 - 23      3.37-3.48
Problems and Need for Assistance  ......... 23 - 26       3.49-3.53
IV.  THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA  ...... 27 - 40        4.01-4.50
A. IDBI as a Borrower  ........   ................. 27 - 35    4.04-4.37
Board, Management and Staff, and Organiza-
tion ..................................  27 - 28     4.04-4.11
Policies and Practices  .................. . 28 - 31      4.12-4.19
Procedures ........................         31 - 32       4.20-4.25
Financial Performance  ........................32 - 35    4.26-4.36
IDBI's Creditworthiness: Summary  ..        35            4.37
B. Relations with the SFCs  ..35 - 40                          4.38-4.50
Ownership and Board Membership.             36            4.38-4.39
Policy Influence.                           36 - 37       4.40-4.42
Technical Assistance     . ....... * ............ 37 - 38  4.43-4.46



Page         Paragraph
Finance ...............................*.*60 38 - 39          4.47-4.49
IDBI's Effectiveness Vis-a-Vis the SFCs ... 40                4.50
V.   BUSINESS PROSPECTS              ........  40 - 43                   5.01-5.15
Industrial Investment Perspectives             40........        - 41  5.0i-5.o4
Business Prospects and Resource Require-
ments of SFCs ..41 - 42  5.05-K.10
IDBI's Prospects  ...43                                       5.11-5.15
VI.   THE PROPOSED LENDING SGHEME   .       ......M        44 - 46        6.ol-6.12
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS..                    46 - 49        7.01-7.14
APPENDIX
FURTHER ASPECTS OF IDBI
A.   INSTITUTIONAL          .     ................ .       1 - 8         A.O1 - A.28
Background of Establishment           .         1             A.O1 - A.02
Objectives and Powers  ...............1.....  1 - 2           A.03 - A.o4
Resources    .. .......                         2   3         A.05 - A.09
Policies and Practices (Addendum)  ..........  3   5          AO - A,15
Operational Reoords               ....                       ............... .5 -7    . .. A.16   A,25
IDBI's Financial Projections           .        7 - 8         A.26 - A.28
B.   IDBI's ROLE IN THE ECONOMY  ..* .....    . .....          1         A,29   A.50
IDBI as a Source of Finance          ,          8             A.29 - A.31
IDBI as a Mobilizer of Resources         .      8 - 9         A.32 - A.33
Impact of IDBI's Operations   .                 9   11        A,34 - A,46
Relations with the Government       ....... 11                A.47 - A.48
Relations with Financial Institutions  ..6., 11 - 12          A.49 - A,50



ANNEXES
INDIA     1.1     Some Indicators of Recent Industrial Performance
1.2     Operations of Industrial Financing Institutions
1.3     Statewise Distribution of Registered Small-Scale Industrial
Units
SFCs      2.1     Establishment, Staff and Resources of SFCs
2.2     Recent Trends in Operations
2.3     Development of Industrially Backward Areas
2.4    Size of SFC Projects Refinanced by IDBI
2.5     Industry-Wise Classification of Loans Outstanding
2.6     Loans Granted to Small-Scale Industries by Each SFC
2.7     Concessional Terms Offered by SFCs to Small-Scale Industry
2.8     Consolidated Income Statements for 18 SFCs, Years Ended
March 31, 1969-72
2.9     Consolidated Balance Sheets for 18 SFCs, 1969-72
2.10    SFCs' Arrears Position, March 31, 1970-72
2.11    Projections of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements for
18 SFCs, Years Ending March 31, 1973-75
2.12    Projected Cash Flow Statements for 18 SFCs, Years Ending
March 31, 1973-75
2.13    Projected Income Statements for 18 SFCs, Years Ending March 31,
1973 -75
2.14    Projected Balance Sheets for 18 SFCs, March 31, 1973-75
IDBI      3.1     Board of Directors and Executive Cormmittee as of October 31, 1972
3.2     Organization Chart (As of June 30, 1972)
3.3     Resources as of September 30, 1972
3.4    Maturities of IDBI Assistance
3.5     Structure of Interest Rates and Other Charges



3.6     Summary of Operations
3.7     Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) by Size
3.8     Industry-Wise Classification of Direct Assistance
3.9     Region-Wise/State-Wise Distribution of Operations (Approvals)
3.10    Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) by Maturity
3.11    Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) by Nature of Project
3.12    Refinance to Small-Scale Units and Road Transport Operators
3.13    Capacity Installed with Direct Assistance
3.14    Economic Indicators of IDBI-Assisted Establishments
3.15    Performance of flDBIts Borrowers in Operation as of June 30, 1972
3.16    Overruns in Cost and Time of Projects completed during 1965 to
1972
3.17    Comparative Income Statements, Years Ended June 30, 1968-72
3.18    Comparative Balance Sheets, June 30, 1968-72
3.19    Principal and Interest in Arrears
3.20    Forecasts of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, Years
Ending June 30, 1973-76
3.21    Projected Cash Flow Statements, Years Ending June 30, 1973-76
3.22    Projected Income Statements, Years Ending June 30, 1973-76
3.23    Projected Balance Sheets, June 30, 1973-76



SUMMARY
1.        The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), a fully-owned sub-
sidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), has asked the Association, for
the first time, for a line of credit to finance industrial enterprises in
India. Since its establishment in 1964, IDBI has been active in identifying
and financing gaps in the industrial structure and in coordinating, as an
apex institution, the activities of other industrial term-financing institutions
at the national and State levels. At the State level, the State Financial
Corporations (SFCs) have been playing an increasingly important role vis-a-vis
the small-and medium-scale sectors. Recently, about 75% of their lending
has been for units in the small-scale sector. By supporting SFCs, the Bank
would penetrate a sector it has hardly touched hitherto as all of its direct
and indirect industrial operations in India have mainly been directed to
relatively large enterprises. This report recommends an IDA credit for use
by IDBI in supporting the activities of the SFCs.
2.        In recent years, the Government of India (GOI) has accorded high
priority to the development of the small-scale industrial sector in view of
the sector's contribution to output, employment, and the distribution of
income. Such incentives have taken a variety of forms ranging from low
interest rates and other terms of concessionary financing to protection from
competition by larger enterprises. GOI has also recently emphasized the
development of backward areas and classified as such districts which aaccount
for 60% of total area in India and 53% of its population. Government
incentives for the development of backward areas encompass grants and other
concessionary financing terms. The small-scale sector in particular, it
is hoped, will respond to these incentives in such areas.
3.        Although there is no conclusive evidence, the small-scale sector
has grown somewhat faster during the past decade than the large-scale sector
and small industries are now estimated to contribute about one-half of value
added of the entire manufacturing sector. Employment by the small-scale
sector is now at about seven million and small industries are estimated to
have generated twice as many job positions than large enterprises during the
past five years.
4.        Despite the good showing of the small-scale sector as a whole,
small industries face numerous problems: low capacity utilization due to
raw material shortages, lack of qualified workers and entrepreneurs, delays
in import license clearance by the Government, and shortages of long-term
domestic and foreign currency resources. The small-scale sector has a much
more limited access to foreign lines of credit than larger industries and
thus has been particularly affected by India's balance of payments situation.
Bilateral foreign credits have been inadequate to satisfy the demand of
small industries for imports of capital equipment.
5.        Because of their operational flexibility and their location, SFCs
are in an excellent position to deal with a number of these problems. SFCs
are the principal State-level institutions in India specializing in term-
financing of projects in the small- and medium-scale industrial sectors.
There are 18 SFCs in India. Most were created in the 1950s pursuant to a



- ii -
Central Act passed in 1951. The loan business of SFCs has greatly accel-
erated in the last three years, increasing by about 50% annually. Overall,
the 18 SFCs account for a volume of operations (approvals totaled Rs. 640
million in 1971/72) second only to IDBI's.
6.        There are significant variations among the SFCs in their capacities
to appraise projects, in the quality of their staff, and in their profitability,
operations and resources. Some SFCs have built up a well-qualified cadre of
staff, their appraisals are adequate and their portfolio sound. But the
work of most SFCs needs to be upgraded. To make SFCs more effective instru-
ments in coping with the needs of small- and medium-scale industries, requires
both closely coordinated and individual attention by an instrument that is
familiar with the SFCs' operations, procedures, resources, strengths and
problems.
7.        IDBI is such an instrument; more so, it is in a unique position to
deal with the problems of SFCs. The relationship between IDBI/RBI and SFCs
comprises ownership (22% of SFCs' share capital is owned by IDBI/RBI), Board
membership, policy influence through inspections and IDBI's leading role in
setting interest rates, granting technical assistance and, most importantly,
providing capital. IDBI/RBI are the largest single source of finance for
SFCs, accounting for 27% of their outstanding resources. IDBI is thus in a
position to be an effective influence on the SFCs. This conclusion is under-
lined by IDBI's position of leadership among term-financing institutions and
by its important role in the economy.
8.        The scale of its operations makes IDBI the largest single source of
institutional finance in India. In its direct operations, IDBI has concen-
trated on the large-scale sector and the leading dynamic sectors of industry,
especially chemicals. Through its indirect activities, IDBI has been an im-
portant source of funds for the term-lending institutions and has had a major
influence on the development of the small-scale sector and backward areas.
Especially in the last few years, IDBI has played a leading promotional role
in surveying backward areas and in identifying project possibilities.
9.        Although IDBI operates within the broad framework of Government
policy, it enjoys substantial autonomy and financial decisions are made
on sound business principles. Over the eight years of its existence, IDBI has
developed into a sound institution. Its staff is competent and well-qualified,
its Board is strong and its appraisal of projects is thorough and efficient.
IDBI also appraises large and/or technologically complex projects, where fi-
nancing is arranged on a consortium basis with other national and State fi-
nancial institutions.
10.       IDBI is a creditworthy borrower and is in a position to implement
a program to upgrade the operations of the SFCs. This report outlines the
dimensions of such a program, the detailed features of which have been agreed
with IDBI. This report also points out the arrangements between IDBI and
RBI in supervising SFC activities.



- iii -
11.       The SFCs' business outlook remains favorable and a growth of 18%
per annum is expected through 1975. This growth rate, although ambitious,
should be attainable in view of the SFCs' past performance and the buoyancy
of the small-scale sector; it is also in line with the investment target of
the Fourth Plan. To carry out this lending program, SFCs will continue to
depend primarily on bond issues and borrowings from IDBI for refinance.
During a two-year period ending March 1975, SFCs need additional resources of
about Rs 1,130 million, of which Rs 334 million ($42 million) are for the
import of machinery and equipment.  Of the total gap, IDBI is projected to
provide about Rs 1,000 million.  To help IDBI meet the requirements of SFCs,
an IDA credit of $25 million to the Government is recommended.  The credit is
to be relent to IDBI at an interest rate of 5-3/4% to finance import
requirements, primarily for machinery and equipment. IDBI in turn would use
the funds to refinance projects put forward by the SFCs. The funds would
cost the SFCs 6.5%; ultimate borrowers would pay at least 9%.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), a fully-owned sub-
sidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), has asked for a line of credit to
finance industrial enterprises in India. IDBI has been active in financing
industrial development since its establishment in 1964 and has become the
largest institutional source of finance for industry. It acts as an apex in-
stitution which provides capital to financial intermediaries at both the na-
tional and State level. It also finances enterprises directly through loans,
investments in shares and debentures, underwritings, etc.
1.02      The World Bank Group has been involved in financing Indian industry
for 20 years. Seven loans and credits totaling $228.5 million have been made
directly to steel and fertilizer enterprises. Seven credits totaling $680
million have financed the importation of equipment, spares and raw materials
for enterprises in key industrial sectors. The Bank has provided nine lines
of credit totaling $265 million to the Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India (ICICI) to finance industry; over 500 enterprises have
so far had access to Bank resources through these loans.
1.03      The direct loans referred to above have financed very large enter-
prises. The loans to ICICI, reinvested in accordance with ICICI's operating
policies, have gone almost exclusively to medium- and large-scale enterprises
(only 8% of its loans have been for less than Rs 1 million) and have been
largely concentrated in the main industrial centers. The Bank Group has
thus hardly touched the small-scale sector in Indian industry. Yet small-scale
industrial enterprises are being actively promoted by the Government of India
(GOI); they provide a very large proportion of industrial output; they con-
tribute significantly to employment; they enjoy an obvious social significance.
In short, their development is being given high priority.
1.04      IDBI, both directly and through its parent RBI, is in an unusually
strong position to influence the small-scale industrial sector through the
State Financial Corporations (SFCs) which are the principal State-level in-
stitutions specializing in term-financing of small- and medium-scale indus-
tries. 1/ About 75% of the lending of SFCs has been to small-scale enter-
prises in recent years. If the Bank Group provides finance to IDBI for use
through the SFCs, it would be in a position to assist a sector which is con-
sidered of high priority for both economic and social reasons, to assure more
widespread use of its funds outside the main industrial centers, and to help
upgrade a very important group of financial institutions. This report
focuses on the SFCs and their role in financing small- and medium-sized
enterprises and considers the appropriateness of providing a line of credit
to IDBI for use by the SFCs.
1/   Small-scale firms are defined by the Government of India ad those having
investments in plant and equipment below Rs 750,000. (For ancillary
enterprises manufacturing components for larger firms, the limit is
Rs 1 million.) Medium-scale firms involve assets up to Rs 10 million.



- 2 -
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
Industrial Trends
2.01      A detailed analysis of India's economic development appears in "Eco-
nomic Situation and Prospects of India", SA-32a, May 10, 1972. Following the
severe recession in the mid-sixties, the industrial production index rose by
about 6% in 1968 and 7% in 1969, roughly in line with the economy as a whole.
However, these growth rates were not sustained and the index grew by only
about 5% in 1970, by 2% - 3% in 1971, and an estimated 5% in 1972, leaving
the ratio of industry to GDP constant at about 20% for the past five years
(Annex 1.1). Considerable progress in investment and output has, however,
been recorded in the labor-intensive small-scale sector, which has been
growing at a somewhat faster rate than the medium- and large-scale sectors
in the last decade.
2.02      A number of constraints prevented a higher industrial growth rate
in 1971. India's steel industry, largely owing to technical and managerial
difficulties, worked at about 65% of capacity and this seriously affected
other industries, primarily engineering and consumer durables, that require
steel as a major raw material input. The textile industry also did not
perform as expected due to shortages of raw cotton. Power shortages, trans-
port bottlenecks and the slack in public sector demand for industrial goods
also constrained output. Investments by GOI, though higher than in earlier
years, did not come up to the budgeted level. Many heavy engineering units,
some of which have been troubled by labor unrest for several years, were
futher depressed. However, during the first six months of 1972 some of the
above constraints have been overcome, particularly in the textile sector and
in the production of finished steel. As a result, the industrial production
index grew by 7.5% in that period.
2.03      Late in 1970, growing demands for industrial products coupled with
the desire to moderate price increases obliged the Government to authorize
sizeable imports of scarce raw materials. These shortages had been a major
impediment to further industrial growth and the efforts of exporters. Some
imports, such as steel, were slow to arrive due to delays in issuing licenses
and long delivery dates. A two-month dock strike in Calcutta also seriously
hampered the performance of industrial exports. Nevertheless, in part due
to a new program to subsidize and encourage exports, engineering exports
reached an estimated $170 million in 1971/72, compared with $113 million in
1968/69. Industrial exports thus remain India's hope for overcoming the
decline in traditional export items -- tea, jute and cotton.
2.04      Probloms in meeting demand have become typical since 1970.  Fer-
tilizers, minerals (except coal) and steel have been in short supply for some
time. The electrical and engineering industries have had a large stock of
unfilled orders. Investors are responding to these opportunities and the



-3-
growing stream of license applications 1/, despite a raise of the exemption
limit (see below), points to a revival of investors' interest in manufacturing.
2.05      A number of important changes in Government policy affecting indus-
try took place within the last two years: (a) the exemption limit for
licensing 2/ investments with a small foreign exchange component was raised
from Rs 2.5 million to Rs 10 million; (b) investments by large Indian enter-
prises and by foreign firms ware mostly confined to the core industries 3/;
(c) incentives for backward areas and small industry included liberalized
licensing, concessional financing, cash subsidies and other benefits such as
tax concessions and cheap power; (d) the Government has assumed additional
powers to control the growth of companies having a dominant market share 4/;
(e) national public financial institutions have been encouraged to make
large rupee loans partially convertible.
2.06      The outstanding feature of these policies is their reflection of
the social objectives of the Government. They are intended to bring employ-
ment opportunities to rural areas, to increase government ownership in large
enterprises and to promote in particular the further growth of the small-scale
industrial sector.
Financing of Industrial Investment
2.07      Total investment in private corporate sector amounted to about Rs 10
billion in 1971/72. Eighteen percent of this amount was provided by the
major term-financing institutions, i.e., IDBI, the Industrial Finance
Corporation of India (IFCI), the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India (ICICI), SFCs, and the State Industrial Development Corporations
(SIDCs). Of these, IDBI, IFCI and ICICI are national term-lending institu-
tions whose assistance has been mainly directed to large enterprises. Over
the past eight years, some 120 companies received joint financing from IDBI,
IFCI and ICICI, whereby IDBI provided about 60% and IFCI and ICICI about 20%
each of joint assistance for project costs of Rs 12 billion. Commercial
banks, the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), and the Unit Trust of India (UTI)
also provide long-term finance. The latter two primarily underwrite and
invest in shares and debertures of industrial companies but LIC also has
large investments in public bonds and loans to State Governments in its
portfolio.
1/   In 1971, 904 letters of intent for new investment were signed and 598
licenses were issued, compared with 438 and 363 respectively in 1970.
2/   Maximum investment costs for which no licensing is required.
3/   Agricultural inputs, iron and steel, nonferrous metals, petroleum,
coking coal, certain heavy industrial machinery, shipbuilding, news-
print and electronics.
4/   Those with assets over Rs 10 million and controlling at least one-third
of the market for a particular product.



-4-
2.08      Capital issues have been rising with underwritings totaling
Rs 499 million in 1971/72 against Rs 398 million the year before. The major
financial institutions have been able, through their equity operations,
to participate in the recent buoyancy in the market for fresh issues.
2.09      Loan disbursements extended by term-lending institutions in 1971/72
have been about Rs 1.8 billion; twenty times the level of their equity under-
writings during that year. Annex 1.2 contains a summary of operations of the
major lending institutions. Total approvals increased by about one-third in
1971/72 over the previous year while disbursements rose by about 22%. While
these achievements are respectable, it is worth noting that it was not until
1970/71 that the overall level of activity of these institutions exceeded
the earlier record level of the pre-recession year 1965/66.
2.10      IDBI is the largest source of term-loans for the industrial sector.
IDBI's impact was particularly accelerated during 1971/72 as total loan
approvals, including the refinancing of SFC-loans 1/ reached Rs 1,686 million
(Annex 1.2).
2.11      ICICI continues to be the major institutional source of foreign ex-
change loans for the private manufacturing sector. Most of ICICI's foreign
currency loans are attractive in that they are, unlike most other aid streams
available to investors, untied as to procurement. ICICI's approvals, most
of them for foreign currency loans, averaged about Rs 350 million p.a. in
recent years. IFCI (which is half-owned by IDBI and half by otner financial
institutions) also provides foreign exchange loans but its resources are
limited and its import financing operations have only been about one-sixth
of ICICI's level. However, IFCI's specialty is financing cooperatives (main-
ly sugar and cotton); its approvals have totaled about Rs 275 million p.a.
over the last three years.
2.12      Total loans approved by SFCs have increased sharply, reaching almost
Rs 650 million in 1971/72. The aggregate amount of assistance by SFCs in
each of the last three years has surpassed the total of ICICI's lending. The
bulk (about 75%) of SFCs' activities has been in the small-scale sector in
recent years and the proportion of lending to this sector has steadily in-
creased (para. 3.06).
Small-Scale Industrial Sector
2.13      GOI defines a company in the small-scale industrial sector as a
unit with investment of less than Rs 750,000 in plant and equipment. (The
limit is Rs 1 million for ancillary enterprises, i.e. units producing com-
ponents for larger firms.) Of these, only units employing more than a
certain number of persons 2/ are required to register with the State
Directorates of Industry (SDIs). However, many smaller units register
in view of the benefits received by a registered factory (e.g. only registered
1/   For a detailed description of IDBI's refinancing scheme, see para. 4.16.
2/   10 persons for factories with power, or 20 without power.



- 5 -
units can obtain import licenses), and as of March 31, 1971, 214,000 units
have been registered with SDI. A detailed review is contained in "Small Scale
Industry in India", SA-33a, May 22, 1972, prepared by the Bank in collabora-
tion with the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA).
2.14      Performance.  Although no precise statistical data are available
to gauge its contribution towards overall industrial growth, the small in-
dustrial sector as a whole is estimated to contribute about one-half of value
added in the entire manufacturing sector. Gross value of output of the
registered units has risen from Rs 23.7 billion in 1964/65 to Rs 40.5 billion
in 1970/71. The output-fixed investment ratio for the small-scale sector is
estimated at over 3:1, as compared to 1:1 for the large-scale sector.
2.15      In recent years, about 16,000 factories have been registered
annually. However, much of the increase is only apparent as it includes also
previously unregistered companies. In 1961 only 36,109 units were registered,
compared with the 214,000 as of March 1971. There are also thousands of
unregistered small-scale enterprises; no attempt has been made to assess
their growth rate.
2.16      Total employment provided by registered small units has risen from
2.7 million in 1965 to 3.3 million as of March 31, 1971. Overall small-sector
employment including unregistered units, is estimated at about seven million
at the end of March 1972. During the past five years, the small-scale sector
generated over twice as many jobs as large-scale industry at roughly one-fourth
of the capital cost.
2.17      Another growth indicator of the small-scale sector is the number of
licenses issued for the import of raw materials and capital equipment: in
1970/71, about 52,000 such licenses were issued compared with about 20,000
two years earlier. The value of licenses increased from Rs 367 million to
Rs 831 million during this period. Roughly one-half of total imports of the
small-scale industrial sector are channeled to small enterprises through the
State Trading Corporation, which imports primarily chemicals, and the Minerals
and Metals Trading Corporation, which imports nonferrous metals.
2.18      Exports of small-scale enterprises have become significant.  Of
1,224 manufacturing units (first eight months of 1970/71) which had applied
for priority treatment for import licenses on the basis of their export
performance, 750 were from the small-scale sector; 413 of these had exported
over 10% of their production in 1969. Such exports amounted to Rs 197
million in 1969, or 32% of these firms' output. 1/ However, the small-scale
sector exports a much smaller fraction of total output than medium- and large-
scale industry which exports about 8% of production; further improvements in
export performance are expected.
1/ Among the industries which had exported more than 60% of their produc-
tion were certain textile fabrics, bifocal lenses, iron safes and
cabinets and plastic buttons.



- 6 -
2.19      Policy Setting.  In recognition of the importance of small indus-
tries in creating output and employment and in promoting economic develop-
ment outside the main industrial centers, the Fourth Plan (1968/69-1973/74)
schedules gross investments of Rs 6.6 billion in the small-scale sector,
almost twice the level of the previous Plan. Recent policy measures contain
special incentive packages, which include subsidies (such as concessional
power rates, sales tax refunds) and financing at concessionary terms, to
support the small-scale industrial sector. Another specific policy of
significance is that a number of products are specifially reserved for pro-
duction by small-scale enterprises.
2.20      As part of the reshaping of the industrial licensing policy in
February 1970, 73 products were added to the list of those reserved exclu-
sively for the small-scale sector, bringing the total to 128, for which no
license is required.1/ This exemption does not apply, except in certain
cases, to the larger industrial houses, foreign concerns and companies with
dominant market shares.
2.21      The volume and terms of credit to the small-scale sector has under-
gone significant changes, largely due to IDBI's role as a pace-setter in in-
terest rate policy through its refinancing activities. IPBI refinances term
loans of SFCs and commercial banks to small units generally at 5%, instead of
the normal 7%, and also ensures that the ultimate borrower will not pay more
than 8.5%, instead of 10.5% as is usual. For units in the backward areas,
IDBI's refinance rate is as low as 3.5% with the ultimate borrower paying
7% or less. In addition to more lenient interest rates, grace and repayment
periods on IDBI refinanced loans are also longer for small enterprises.
2.22      Reflecting the Government's policy, term-lending institutions have
lowered their margin of security requirements for small units to 25% from
40-50% a few years ago 2/; for technician-entrepreneurs 3/ the margin is
even lower (para. 3.09). The nationalized banks, in particular the State
Bank of India (SBI), have also initiated concessional financing schemes to
attract investors to small-scale industries. Some State Governments also
extend interest subsidies for technician-entrepreneurs. Annex 2.7 contains
a synopsis of concessional terms offered by SFCs to small-scale enterprises.
1/   Among the 73 products added to the list are:  low tension insulators,
exhaust mufflers, electrical fuses, steering wheels, ring compressors,
condensers, steel measuring tapes, potassium and calcium silicate.
2/   I.e., they are now prepared to lend up to 75% of the assessed value
of fixed assets, whereas they formerly advanced only up to 50-60%.
3/   Entrepreneurs with an engineering background, but without financial
backing.



7 -
2.23      Another important element in Government policy towards small indus-
tries is the Credlt Guarantee Scheme introduced in 1960 and administered by
RBI. 1/ The Scheme has considerably enlarged the flow of institutional credit
to small-scale enterprises. Guarsntees outstanding amounted to Rs 9.13 bil-
lion as of June JO, 1972 compared to Rs 2.4 billion three years earlier.
Commercial banks are the largest users oL the Scheme, although about three-
fourths of the SFCs' .loans to small-scale enterprises are covered by guaran-
tees under this 1rogram.
2.24      Other aspects of Government strategy to attract investors to the
small-scale sector comprise the development of industrial estates, which
offer read-made sites or sheds supplied with power, water and other infra-
structural facilities, and the provision of technical assistance, particularly
with problems of marketing and project design.
2.25      GOI's emphasis on the development of the small-scale industrial
sector is commendable in light of the sector's contribution to the creation
of employment and output with smaller capital expenditures and to a more
equitable income distribution in the country. Because of the impact the
sector is likely to have on the Indian economy, a careful and comprehensive
evaluation of various incentives currently being given by the Central and
State Governments, directly or through financial institutions, should be
undertaken. Among other things, the appropriateness of the reserved product
list and the current level ot concessional terms of finance to the small-
scale sector shculd be closely examined. The policy of the reserved list
implies a double layer of protection for small-scale industries from imports
and medium- and large-ccale industries. Although the share of the 128 pro-
ducts in total oUtnut by small-scale industries is probably small, GOI's
increasing emphasis on the development of the small-scale industrial sector
calls for an aualysis of this policy. The Bank is currently investigating
these aspects. Clearly, considerations of income distribution and employment
generation are relevant, but it needs to be assessed to what extent this
policy is based on a deliberate trade-off between efficiency on the one hand
and social considerations on the other.
1/   The Scheme was substantially liberalized in 1970.  About 500 financial
institutions can now utilize the Scheme which covers all important
credit facilities, e.g. working capital advances, term loans, letters
of credit, and guarantees. All types of industrial activities are
eligible with the exception of certain service industries like transport
and electrical power. Against a guarantee fee of 1/10 of 1% (which is
to be borne by the ultimate borrower; the majority of the credit
institutions including 16 SFCs, however, absorb the guarantee fee in their
margins), the Scheme provides for a payment of up to 75% of the amount in
default or the amount guaranteed, whichever is lower. The maximum
amount receivable under the Scheme is, however, limited to Rs 750,000
for working capital advances and a further Rs 250,000 for term loans.



-8-
2.26      Institutional Aspects.  Small-scale enterprises are dealt with by
a variety of institutions at both the national and State level. The Small
Scale Industries Development Organization (SSIDO) of the Ministry of
Industrial Development is responsible for formulating national policies for
the development of small-scale industry. It also performs a liaison function
between State and Central ministries concerned with small-scale enterprises.
Its extension services in the States - Small Industries Service Institutes
(SISIs) - give technical assistance, including economic information, marketing
assistance and management consultancy to individual firms; they also run
training courses for entrepreneurs.
2.27      The National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) performs certain
marketing services and runs prototype production and training centers, but
its main activity is the supply of machinery on an installment basis for up
to seven years at a 7% interest rate. From 1957 to March 31, 1971, machinery
valued at Rs 450 million ($60 million) was financed by NSIC, including im-
ports of $35 million, under lines of credit extended by some OECD countries
as well as Eastern European nations.
2.28      At the State level, SDIs are of considerable importance in im-
plementing policy. They build industrial estates for small firms and pro-
cess all applications for capital good import licenses for small-scale in-
dustry whether these are subsequently referred to the NSIC or directly to the
Ad Hoc Capital Goods Licensing Committee in New Delhi. SDIs are also impor-
tant as allocators of raw materials to small industrial units. Their promo-
tional work is complemented by the activities of Small Scale Industrial
Development Corporations which are the principal distributors of raw materials
in short supply. They also extend marketing assistance.
2.29      Financing.  Small-scale industrial sector growth has been spurred
by public and private investment funds. Plan outlays for public investments
to develop small industries were Rs 52 million in the First Five Year Plan,
Rs 560 million in the Second, Rs 860 million in the Third and are projected
at Rs 1,040 million in the Fourth Plan.
2.30      Commercial banks (particularly SBI) and SFCs play the most important
roles in the term-financing of small enterprises. As of June 1970, commercial
banks had one and one-half times more term loans outstanding (maturities ex-
ceeding one year) to small enterprises than SFCs, but the SFCs' role has been
increasing rapidly: about 1,900 loans totaling Rs 202 million were approved
for small industries in 1969/70; in 1971/72, about 4,700 such loans for
Rs 500 million were made.
2.31      IDBI plays an important indirect role in financing of the small-scale
sector through its refinancing activities. About 95% of the loans refinanced
in 1971/72, compared with 60% in 1968/69, have been for small-scale indus-
tries and road transport operators (Annex 3.12). In terms of amounts re-
financed, the increase in importance of this sector is even more striking.
Some 70% of total refinance sanctioned in 1971/72 went to the small indus-
trial sector and transport operators, compared with only 20% three years
earlier. The increase reflects the more lenient terms and conditions recently
introduced for this sector, particularly for backward areas.



- 9 -
2.32      On a limited scale, ICICI and State Industrial Development
Corporations (SIDCs) in certain States also provide term-loans and equity
capital to small industries. SDIs also extend, in modest amounts, loans
under the State Aid to Industries Act.
2.33      The capability of small-scale industry to resort to self-financing
seems more restricted compared with larger industries. Consequently, in
line with Government promotion of small units, margin requirements were
reduced to 25% as explained in para. 2.22. Available statistics, although
inconclusive, indicate that self-financing does not contribute more than
one-fourth to total project cost. A sample analysis, carried out by RBI,
of 750 small public limited companies showed that internal sources contributed
about 15% towards assets formation. Considering the somewhat higher promoters'
contributions in proprietorship, partnership and private limited companies,
the overall self-financing portion of small industries is likely to be of the
order of 20% to 25% of total project costs.
2.34      Problems.  The ambitious expansion of the small-scale sector en-
visaged by the Fourth Plan calls for annual increases of over 20% in total
fixed investments in private small-scale industries during the remaining
years of the Plan. However, this growth rate is not unrealistic in view of
the Government's vigorous promotion of the small-scale sector, the special
assistance schemes adopted by term-lending institutions in support of the
sector and the fact that, as India reaches a more advanced stage of in-
dustrialization, medium- and large-scale industries lead to the establishment
of small ancillary enterprises producing components for the use of larger
enterprises in vertical production processes. However, it is not yet clear
whether adequate funds will be available to finance this expansion and any
shortage of credit would be a major constraint on the growth of small in-
dustries.
2.35      A shortage of foreign exchange is a further curb on the growth of
the small-scale sector. Total import licenses issued to small-scale enter-
prises during 1970/71 were valued at Rs 831 million, and are estimated at
Rs 1,250 million during 1971/72. Most of these imports are for raw materials;
however, despite the progress of import-substitution in India, foreign ex-
change expenditures for imports of equipment and machinery by small enter-
prises are likely to also increase substantially. Unlike the medium- and
large-scale sectors which had access to foreign lines of credit placed with
ICICI and IFCI, the small-scale sector has been particularly vulnerable to
India's balance of payment difficulties. Furthermore, bilateral credits
available through NSIC proved inadequate to accommodate the needs for capital
imports of the small-scale sector.
2.36      Another problem of small-scale industries originates from weak-
nesses in institutional lending policies and operations. Many SFCs have
historically been excessively security-oriented. Reducing the margin require-
ments and accepting other forms of collateral has improved the situation for
small industries, but the basic problem will persist as long as appraisal
officers of some SISIs, SFCs and SIDCs lack proper training and expertise
in project evaluation.



- 10 -
2.37      Despite the significant achievements of the small-scale sector
as a whole, developments have been uneven from State to State. Annex 1.3
contains a State-wide distribution of the number of registered small-scale
units; there is a wide variation among States in the number of units re-
gistered per million population.
2.38      Small industries producing components appear to have achieved
higher standards than those manufacturing complete units. This may be due
to the fact that the former, serving larger enterprises in an ancillary
capacity, face less difficult marketing problems. SISIs have been of help
in overcoming marketing as well as engineering and quality control problems
in many cases, but more needs to be done, particularly on the former.
2.39      Another difficulty is the shortage of entrepreneurs and qualified
engineers. Only a few States have started to establish training centers
for managers.
2.40      Many small industrial firms are also plagued with low capacity
utilization. A recent study of small units by the (Indian) National Council
of Applied Economic Aesearch found production running well below capacity in
most firms, due largely to problems in securing adequate supplies of raw
materials. These shortages have contributed to the difficulties of some
small units in meeting their repayment schedules for terms loans and explain,
in part, the high arrearages of many SFCs. The problems are compounded by
the difficulties of small industries in collecting receivables which are
often outstanding up to nine months. As commercial banks normally only
extend up to 90 days credit, small businessmen face tight working capital
situations in such cases.
2.41      The small-scale industrial sector also faces a problem caused by de-
lays in import license clearance. While such complaints are also voiced by
larger enterprises, small units are not represented in Delhi, and are thus
less able to push their applications through the Government. Import license
applications by the small industrial sector are not accorded the measure of
priority the sector as a whole enjoys.
2.42      Summary.  For both social and economic reasons India is making
special efforts to develop labor-intensive, small-scale industrial sector,
which is an important component of Indian industry. About 50% of value
added in the entire manufacturing sector is contributed by small industries.
The development of small industries is considered an important instrument to
promote economic growth in rural areas, and thus to bring income and employ-
ment to the poorer sections of India. Both national and State level insti-
tutions attend to the needs of small industries for technical assistance and
infrastructural facilities. Commercial banks and SFCs are the principal
sources of finance for small enterprises. IDBI plays an important indirect
role in financing small projects through its refinance of loans.



- 11 -
2.43      Given the increased emphasis on the sector, the outlook for the
future development of small industries is bright. Nevertheless, both exist-
ing and new small enterprises face a number of problems that need to be
solved. One of the most critical problems is the under-utilization of
existing capacity, largely due to inadequate supplies of both imported and
indigenous raw materials. Other problems include marketing difficulties,
lack of entrepreneurs and engineers and delays in import license clearance.
Finally, many small industries did not have adequate access to latest
technology thus creating a problem with sub-standard quality production
which constrained the ability of the sector to export. Unlike the medium-
and large-scale sectors which had access to foreign lines of credit through
ICICI and IFCI, the small-scale sector has been particularly vulnerable to
balance of payment difficulties as bilateral lines of credit placed with
NSIC proved inadequate to satisfy demand.



- 12 -
III. THE STATE FINANCIAL 00RPORATIONS
A. SFCs' Operations
3.01      SFCs were established in the 1950s and 1960s to specialize in pro-
viding term finance to small- and medium-sized enterprises. The State
Financial Corporation Act, passed by GOI in 1951, authorized each State Gov-
,ernment to set up an SFC. Presently, there are 17 SFCs for 21 States and
one Union Territory (Delhi). The Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corpora-
tion (TIIC), which had been established under the Companies Act before the
SFC Act came into force, is treated by RBI and IDBI as an SFC, bringing the
total number of SFCs to 18. The remaining States and Union Territories are
covered by SFCs in neighboring States. The SFCs are thus in an excellent
position to address themselves to the needs of small and medium enterprises
all over India. Indeed, their past operations bears out this expectation:
SFCs have financed projects in all but four of 332 districts in India.
Scope of Operations
3.02      SFCs provide financial assistance to industrial concerns by (a)
granting loans, (b) underwriting or purchasing shares and debentures, and
fc) extending guarantees. Among these functions, loans play by far the
most important role, accounting for almost 90% of the aggregate portfolio
(end of March 1972) of the 18 companies. Except for TIIC, equity invest-
ments and the guarantee business of SFCs have not developed significantly.
Although nine SFCs had outstanding share investments as of March 31, 1972,
the aggregate amount was only 7% of the total portfolio of the 18 SFCs,
and two-thirds of this was on account of TIIC. Similarly, guarantee
obligations (eleven SFCs) accounted for only 7% of the total portfolio of
the 18 SFCs.
3.03      SFCs' loan operations (including those refinanced by IDBI) have
shown a sharply rising trend with aggregate approvals increasing from Rs
194 million in 1968/69 to Rs 641 million in 1971/72 (about 5,000 loans in
that year) and the momentum is continuing. Disbursements have also shown a
large increase from Rs 174 million to Rs 388 million during the four-year
period (Annex 2.2). Thus, SFCs are second only to IDBI as a source of
institutional lending to industry (Annex 1.2) although there are large varia-
tions in their scale of operations. Loan approvals in 1971/72 ranged from
Rs 4.5 million (Assam) to Rs 106 million (Maharashtra). About half of the
approvals in 1971/72 were made by only five SFCs (Maharashtra, Gujarat,
11ttar Pradesh, Mysore and Haryana). Regional distribution of SFC loans within
individual States also shows a skewed pattern: more than three-fourths of
loan amounts outstanding at the end of March 1972 were concentrated in about
one-third of all districts.
3.04      Size of Operations.  From the large number (about 3,200) of SFC
projects refinanced by IDBI in 1970/71 and 1971/72 (Annex 2.4), it becomes
aEpparent that loans below Rs 200,000 loom large in SFCs' activities: about



- 13 -
83% of the loans, representing 44% of the total amount, refinanced by IDBI
in those two years were below Rs 200,000. A further 12% of the SFC loans
refinanced by IDBI, representing 8% of the total amount, were between
Rs 200,000 and Rs 500,000. Only 1% of the total number of projects re-
financed in the two years, representing 28% of the total amount of assistance,
were between Rs 1 million and Rs 2 million. (SFCs, by law, cannot lend more
than Rs 2 million to a single enterprise.)
3.05      Sectoral Distribution.  Annex 2.5 contains a breakdown, by industrial
sector, of advances extended by SFCs. A large portion (35%) of the assistance
outstanding has gone to modern industries such as chemicals, non-metallic
mineral products, food manufacturing and the manufacture of machinery. How-
ever, traditional industries still play a substantial role in the activities
of SFCs; as of March 31, 1972, textiles accounted for 18% of the total loans
outstanding.
Operations in the Small-Scale Sector
3.06      With the recent initiatives of the Central and State Governments,
the role of SFCs vis-a-vis the small-scale sector has been considerably en-
hanced. The percentage of loans outstanding from the small-scale industrial
sector rose from 30% of the total at the end of March 1970 to 46% on March 31,
1972. While the number of loans extended to the small-scale industrial
sector has remained fairly constant over the past two years, in terms of
amounts, the percentages have risen from 62% in 1969/70 to 78% in 1971/72
(Annex 2.6).
3.07      As noted earlier, the terms of finance for small-scale industrial
firms have been relaxed, which largely explains the results indicated above.
A synopsis of the concessional terms offered by SFCs to small industries is
contained in Annex 2.7.
3.08      Although the small-scale sector plays a dominant role in the ope-
rations of SFCs as a whole, there are large variations in the assistance to
the small-scale sector extended by individual SFCs. The SFCs of Haryana,
Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu have extended less than
30% of their assistance to small-scale units while seven SFCs, among them
Maharashtra, West Bengal and Gujarat, have extended over 50% to such units.
These differences are explained by the varying stages of industrial develop-
ment in the States, the lack or existence of SFC branch offices, and com-
petition from national and other State financial institutions which are
more active in some States than in others.
3.09      SFCs have found that, if given sufficient attention at the planning
stage, projects initiated by technician-entrepreneurs do well. In view of
the favorable impact of such projects on employment of qualified engineers,
seven SFCs have formulated special assistance schemes to technician-entre-
preneurs which involve project assistance by the technical wings of SFCs, by
SISI, outside technical experts and, on the financial side, special conces-
sionary terms. The margin requirement in such cases lies between 10% and
25%, and in Maharashtra no margin is required at all.



- 14 -
Relations with Other Financial Institutions
3.10      Government agencies at the State level comprise SDI, SISI and SIDC,
all of which provide infrastructure facilities and technical and marketing
assistance to industiial enterprises. In Maharashtra and Gujarat, there are
also State Industrial Investment Corporations (SIICs) which grant term loans
to industrial units and underwrite shares and debentures of industrial con-
cerns. Since these two functions are also carried out by several SIDCs, and
since commercial banks also grant term loans, there is some overlapping of
functions between SFCs and other State-level organizations. In practice,
however, the complementarity of their functions is being increasingly empha-
sized. In many states SIDCs will only extend term loans beyond the maximum
limit for SFCs. The Gujarat and Maharashtra SFCs coordinate closely with
the SIDCs and SIICs in their States. Recently, IDBI initiated periodical
Inter-Institutional meetings (Appendix, para. A.14) which will further
strengthen the coordination at the State level. In particular, the colla-
boration between SFCs and commercial banks can be expected to improve as
commercial banks have indicated their willingness to help collect information
on units with arrear problems. In view of their large network of branch
offices, these banks are well-equipped to do so.
3.11      SFCs' relations are particularly strong with IDBI and are described
in Chapter IV, Section B. ICICI has, on a limited scale, financed projects
jointly with SFCs by extending foreign currency loans. Most other national
financial institutions (IFCI, LIC, UTI, SBI) are important to SFCs as pro-
viders of funds: jointly they account for 22% of the SFCs' aggregate share
capital. LIC and SBI also take up major shares in SFCs' bond issues. Of
the total amount of bonds (Rs 268 million) issued by SFCs during 1970/71-
1971/72, LIC and SBI contributed 22% and 11% respectively.
B. Institutional Aspects
Ownership
3.12      The SFC Act prescribes the authorized capital of any SFC to be
limited between Rs 5 million and Rs 50 million, and its issued capital to
be distributed among (a) the State Government, (b) RBI, (c) other financial
institutions, and (d) other parties. The shares allocated to the first three
groups of shareholders are not transferable, except among themselves, and
ownership by the last category cannot exceed 25%. The State Government must
subscribe to the portion of issued capital which remains unsubscribed. Since
its establishment, IDBI has subscribed to all the shares allocated to RBI.
3.13      At the end of September 1972, the aggregate capital of 18 SFCs
amounted to Rs 247 million, of which the State Governments (including Union
Territory Administrations) accounted for 43%, and RBI and IDBI together for
20%. The remaining capital is mostly held by financial institutions,
including commercial banks and insurance companies. The issued share capital
of individual SFCs ranges from Rs 6 million (Himachal Pradesh) to Rs 30 mil-
lion (Gujarat and TIIC), but averages around Rs 14 million (Annex 2.1).



- 15 -
Relations with the State Governments
3.14      The powers given to the State Governments in the SFC Act are exten-
sive and encompass: general direction in policy matters; fixing the amount
of authorized and issued capital; nominating three directors, including the
chairman; and appointing the managing director of each SFC. However, most
of these powers are exercised in consultation with RBI. The most important
of them refers to the appointment of the managing director. Although fourteen
of the 18 managing directors of SFCs are State Government officials, the
SFCs are largely free from Government influence. The SFCs' substantial in-
crease of business reflects the State Governments' active interest in and
harmonious relationships with the SFCs. The State Governments are important
to SFCs as executors of the Plan (e.g. setting up industrial estates), as
policy-makers (e.g. promoting backward regions, granting incentives), as
providers of funds through capital subscriptions and loans and as guarantors
of SFC bonds. The State Governments are obligated to guarantee SFCs' dividend
payments and, in some States, have provided funds for this purpose (see
para. 3.47).
Board, Management and Staff
3.15      The Board.  The policy and management of an SFC reside in its
board of directors. The composition of each SFC board, irrespective of its
size or volume of business, is identical. The SFC Act stipulates that each
SFC board should consist of ten directors: three nominated by the State
Government, one each by RBI and IFCI, three elected from among the share-
holding commercial banks and other financial institutions, one elected from
among the other shareholders, and a managing director. One of the three
directors nominated by the State Government is the chairman of the board.
Although some of the Government-appointed directors come from the business
community, the majority are Government officials. The quality of the boards
appears to differ among SFCs. Some boards are more aware than others of the
SFCs' developmental roles vis-a-vis small-scale enterprises; some are more
sensitive than others to the soundness of their SFCs' financial structure.
In all boards, the RBI representative plays a dominant role as his disapproval
of a project implies that IDBI's refinance facility will not be available.
3.16      Executive Committee.  Every SFC has an executive committee to which
the board delegates part of its powers. In most of the SFCs, the executive
committee comprises four directors: the managing director (chairman of the
committee) and three other directors one each representing the State Govern-
ment, RBI/IFCI and other shareholders. The maximum approval power delegated
to these committees varies with each SFC, and ranges from Rs 0.1 million to
Rs 0.5 million.
3.17      Management and Staff.  The chief executive of an SFC is the manag-
ing director who is appointed, for a term up to four years, by the State
Government in consultation with RBI. There has been a frequent turnover in
the managing directors positions of some of the SFCs and appointees sometimes
do not have the experience relevant to the task. RBI is currently seeking
the power, through amendment of the SFC Act, to require State Governments to



- 16 -
obtain RBI's advice before a managing director can be appointed. During
negotiations, it was explained to IDA that RBI would use this provision to
ensure that qualified managing directors would serve a full term.
3.18      SFC staff strength varies, ranging from twelve in Himachal Pradesh
to six hundred in Maharashtra; six SFCs have a staff of less than 50. A
problem common to most SFCs is lack of specialized expertise, particularly
in engineering aspects. Five SFCs have no engineers. Many SFCs have in-
sufficient staff to attend to the post-disbursement follow-up of projects.
These staff inadequacies are, to a large extent, a reflection of their
security-oriented, as opposed to project-oriented, attitude in providing
finance. Staff quality also differs among SFCs. Some SFCs find it difficult
to retain competent staff because their pay-scales are considerably lower
than those of other financial institutions in the State. There was also a
lack of training programs for SFCs' staff. Furthermore, the managements of
many SFCs were reluctant to have their staff members participate in training
programs, due to staff constraints. Although RBI's Bankers Training
College (Bombay) has a special course on industrial finance, there have been
very few participants from the SFCs.
3.19      While IDBI, with RBI cooperation, has been impressing upon SFCs the
need for strengthening their engineering staff, it has also initiated a move
to organize a Technical Consultancy Service Centre (TCSC) to be used jointly
by various institutions in a State where the SFC's scale of operations would
not justify the creation of a separate engineering department. Further,
IDBI and RBI have begun to organize training courses for each region. These
efforts to upgrade the staff level of SFCs, with due regard to the specific
situation of each locality, should be continued and intensified under IDBI's
leadership.
Resources
3.20      Besides their share capital, SFCs are empowered by the Act to raise
funds by (a) issuing bonds and debentures guaranteed by the State Government,
(b) borrowing on short-term from RBI, (c) borrowing from the State Govern-
ment, (d) borrowing from other financial institutions, and (e) accepting
deposits with a fixed term longer than one year. Resources outstanding as of
March 31, 1972, for each SFC are given in Annex 2.1, and summarized below
on a consolidated basis (in Rs million):



- 17 -
Paid-up Capital                                     232          13.0%
Reserves                                             74           4.2%
Bonds and Debentures                                825          46.3%
Borrowings
(i)   from RBI                                  42           2.3%
(ii)   from State Government                     33           1.8%
(iii)   from Other Financial Institutions        445          25.0%
(of which IDBI)                         (430)       (24.1%)
Term Deposits                                        131          7.4%
Total Resources                         1,781         100.0%
3.21      SFCs' bonds are issued in consultation with RBI. By around February
each year, RBI requires SFCs to submit their market program for the next fi-
nancial year (April - March). RBI usually fixes a quota for all SFCs together,
out of which allocations are made according to individual needs. Major pur-
hasers of SFCs' bonds in recent years have been LIC, SBI and other commercial
banks. During the past four years, SFCs have issued bonds (State guaranteed)
for a total of Rs 482 million, of which about 90% was subscribed by these
institutions. These bonds were issued at an interest rate of 6% (taxable)
with a maturity of 12 years.
3.22      Borrowings from RBI consist of two types of credit:  one with a
maturity up to 90 days against trustee securities or commercial bills, and
the other with a maturity up to 18 months against Government securities or
SFCts own bonds. These credits are used as a bridging operation between
two bond issues. Borrowings from "other financial institutions" are virtually
all derived from IDBI in the form of refinance of SFC loans. Practically all
types of SFC loans are eligible for IDBI's refinance, normally up 10 years
(see para. 4.16). The total amount of bonds, borrowings (except RBI's credit
up to 90 days), and contingent liabilities outstanding are limited by the
Act to 10 times the amount of the SFC's equity. Furthermore, the amount of
deposits cannot exceed the paid-up share capital, and contingent liabilities
are limited to twice the amount of equity.
3.23      In recent years, bond issues and IDBI's refinance increasingly
funded SFCs' lending, accounting together for 70% of total resources in
March 1972, compared with 62% three years earlier. On the other hand, SFCs'
net worth and deposits have shown only a modest increase during the same
period. Borrowings from RBI and State Governments have been on the decrease.



- 18 -
E'olicies and Practices
3.24      The policies governing an SFC's operations are laid down by its
Bloard to the extent they are not dictated by various statutory limitations as
noted below. The State Government is also authorized to issue, in consul-
tation with RBI, instructions to SFC on questions of policy. Yet, the State
Governments seldom appear to exercise their powers and it is RBI that exerts
influence on SFCs' operational policies through guidelines and advice.
3.25      Loans.  SFCs' loans are granted for the acquisition of fixed assets.
Although some SFCs (like Assam) refrain from lending for working capital,
rmost SFCs extend long-term working capital loans to a certain extent (usually
up to 25% of the total loan amount). The maximum exposure (loans plus loan
guarantees) to a single unit is limited by the Act to Rs 2 million for a
public limited company or a co-operative society, and to Rs 1 million for
others, on an outstanding basis. 1/ In terms of percentage of SFCs' equity,
this ranges from 5% (TIIC) to 29t (Himachal Pradesh). In addition, RBI
recently issued a guideline for SFCs to adopt a ceiling for total assistance
Ito a group of companies under a single management (up to 35% of the SFC's
equity). The minimum amount of loan varies with each SFC, but is normally
around Rs 10,000, which corresponds to the current minimum size of IDBI's
refinance.
:3.26     The maximum loan maturity is set by the Act at 20 years; in practice
nost SFCs limit the repayment period to 10-12 years including 1-2 years' grace.
Some SFCs allow longer period (up to 15 years) for units in the backward areas.
Loans for working capital are normally repayable in 5 years. Interest rates
vary according to individual SFCs, the size of enterprises and whether or not
the loans are refinanced by IDBI. The rates on loans to small-scale enter-
prises average about 8%, if IDBI refinance is available, and about 9% in other
cases. These rates are effective rates after deducting rebates of 0.25%-1.5%
Eor on-time payments. Given the interest rates charged by commercial banks
(10-11% on both long- and short-term loans) and by national term-finance
institutions (8.5%), SFCs' rates are within a reasonable range. However, in
view of the high default rate by SFCs' clients, the present "rebate" structure
should be re-examined, and a penalty system which makes defaults more costly
should be explored by IDBI.
3.27      The SFC Act prohibits the provision of loans without sufficient
security; the margin of security required by most SFCs for small-scale enter-
prises is 25%, that is, loans are granted up to 75% of the value of assets
(as determined by the lender) offered as collateral.
3.28      Equity Investments.  SFCs are not allowed to subscribe to the shares
of a company unless they have underwritten the issue thereof nor can they
normally retain the shares so acquired beyond a period of seven years. These
1/   In the case of TIIC, limits of Rs 2.5 million for loans and another
Rs 2.5 million for loan guarantees are prescribed by REI.



- 19 -
restrictions help explain SFCs' limited role in equity investment. Further-
more, since their operations are mostly confined to small and medium units,
underwriting and subscription of the shares of such companies are often low-
yielding and unmarketable.
3.29      Guarantees.  SFCs are empowered to guarantee (a) borrowings by
industrial concerns in the public market (up to 20 years), (b) loans given
to them by conmercial and cooperative banks, and (c) deferred payments related
to purchase of capital goods within India. The guarantees issued by SFCs are
predominantly those of deferred payment. There is no statutory ceiling for
SFCs on the extent of this type of guarantee for a single enterprise, whereas
there is a ceiling for loan guarantees. RBI has recently advised SFCs to
restrict guarantees for deferred payments to 50% of the maximum limit of
exposure to a single firm (i.e., Rs 1 million for public limited companies
and co-operative societies and Rs 0.5 million for others).
3.30      Summary.  SFC's lending policies, which are largely influenced by
RBI's and IDBI's guidelines, are generally sound. IDBI's comprehensive
guidelines (para 3.52), which were drawn up in consultation with IDA, would
ensure sound policies and practices also in the future. Given the important
bearing of the SFC Act and of IDBI's guidelines on the policies and operations
of SFCs, IDBI agreed to inform the Association of any proposed changes in
the Act and of any new guidelines to SFCs.
Procedures
3.31      Appraisal.  The adequacy of project appraisal varies considerably
among SFCs. While a few have developed satisfactory techniques, the appraisal
standard of most SFCs is deficient, particularly in engineering aspects and
economic analysis.
3.32      The inadequacy or non-availability of staff (para. 3.18) partly
explains the weaknesses in the appraisals of some SFCs. Although these SFCs
have depended upon SDIs, SISIs, or private consultants for appraisal of
engineering aspects, loans are sometimes approved without obtaining reports
from these agencies. These reports themselves are often very sketchy,
containing only a general statement that endorses the feasibility of the
proposed project. Economic evaluation of projects is virtually neglected
by many SFCs and considerations seem to be limited to the industrial
priorities laid down by the Government or, at best, to some other factors
such as the employment effect.
3.33      In recent years, IDBI and RBI have been keenly aware of these defi-
ciencies, and have suggested, among other things, that SFCs strengthen their
engineering appraisals. As a result, between 1968 and 1972, five SFCs
created engineering units, and the total number of engineers employed by
SFCs have increased from 9 to 76. RBI, which already in 1962 distributed to



- 20 -
SFCs a fairly comprehensive manual on project appraisal 1/, recently devised
a model form of engineering report for use by SFCs. IDBI is currently pre-
paring a new project appraisal manual for SFCs' use which contains a section
on economic analysis. Nevertheless, it seems necessary, for effective use
of the proposed IDA credit, that IDBI, in cooperation with RBI, intensify
its efforts to upgrade SFCs' appraisal standards.
3.34      Procurement.  While aware of the importance of competitive procure-
ment, many SFCs lack explicit guidelines to ensure that their clients buy the
most suitable machinery and equipment from the most competitive sources. IDBI
has recently provided such guidelines which, in view of the inexperience of
many SFCs in handling foreign procurement, pay special attention to this
matter.
3.35      Disbursement.  SFCs are generally careful not to disburse in excess
of the value of fixed assets actually acquired. Before disbursement, they
normally require evidence of acquisition or their staff will check on the
progress of construction to assess the value of assets realized. Disbursements
of working capital loans are made only after the project has become ready for
operation. However, SFCs' disbursements have tended to lag considerably behind
the original schedule, due partly to SFCs' inadequate appraisal and cumbersome
documentation procedures and partly to factors beyond the SFCs' control, parti-
cularly delays in import license clearance. This latter problem requires
special attention in view of the proposed IDA credit and the Government,
during negotiations, explained that appropriate remedies are under active
consideration.
3.36      Follow-up.  Most SFCs require progress reports and financial state-
ments from their borrowers and perform on-the-site project inspections. How-
ever, recent inspections by RBI have revealed that follow-up activities of
many SFCs have been inadequate. Sometimes required reports were either irre-
gularly received, or not analyzed if received. Inspection visits were in-
frequent, or inspection reports were not brought to the attention of the
management. RBI has suggested that SFCs recruit and train sufficient staff
to carry out follow-up activities adequately. Although some SFCs have shown
significant improvements (e.g. the Uttar Pradesh SFC has increased its super-
vision staff from 5 to 37 during the past three years), IDBI and RBI should
continue their efforts to strengthen this activity.
Portfolio and Financial Record
3.37      quality of Portfolio.  The consolidated balance sheets for 18 SFCs
during the last three years are shown in Annex 2.9. Since loans account for
almost 90% of total portfolio, the soundness of SFCs' investments depends
largely on the quality of their loan portfolio. During the period between
1/   Although the main emphasis is on financial analysis, this manual also
covers engineering, market and managerial aspects of project appraisal.
It lacks, however, discussion on economic analysis.



- 21 -
March 1969 and March 1972, the loan portfolio increased by about 70%; it is
now about Rs 1,550 million. The arrears position of SFCs' borrowers for the
last three years is given in Annex 2.10. Overdue principal and interest 1/
for all SFCs together accounted for 19% of the total loans outstanding as
of the end of March 1972. Seven SFCs had overdues exceeding 20% of their loan
portfolio; only three SFCs had less than 10%. Age classification of arrears
indicates that very few overdues were of a temporary nature. Of the total
overdues of Rs 290 million, about 80% were in arrears for more than one
year, and about 70% for more than two years. About half (51%) of the SFCs'
total outstanding loans were affected by overdue principal or interest.
3.38      To a certain extent, failure of industries in which the SFCs had
sizable investments contributed to the high arrearage in several States in-
cluding Assam (tea), Bihar (potato storage), Andhra Pradesh and Madhya
Pradesh (textiles). In West Bengal, the general political situation and
labor unrest were one of the reasons for high arrears.
3.39      High arrears of SFC clients were, in part, due to their difficulties
in acquiring both domestic and imported raw materials. Until recently, the
allocation of imported raw materials favored large enterprises which more or
less obtained their full requirements on the basis of the capacity assessed
by the Directorate General for Technical Development (DGTD). Small-scale
units received raw material allocations on the basis of the value of machinery
installed. Small units with a high raw material consumption but a low level
of investments were therefore at a particular disadvantage. Since early 1971,
GOI has undertaken certain changes in its policy to redress this disparity
by applying a capacity-based allocation system to enterprises of all sizes.
GOI started to implement this new policy.
3.40      In addition to their inadequate appraisals and follow-ups, which
undoubtedly contributed to the high default rates, SFCs' loan collection
activities have also been insufficient. SFCs should strengthen their col-
lection practices and, given the lack of their own branch network, should
seek the cooperation of other institutions, such as commerical banks, in
recovering loans.
3.41      Finally, most SFCs' managements tend to disregard the situation
on the grounds that their loans are adequately covered by mortgages or Gov-
ernment guarantees. Fourteen SFCs have not written off any loans during
the past three years. Provisions for bad debts as of March 1972 totaled
only Rs 12 million on account of 15 SFCs. Furthermore, these SFCs included
such provisions in their net worth. Three SFCs have made no provisions for
bad debts. Given the high level of arrears, it is evident that SFCs need
to make more provisions for possible losses. SFCs' accounting practice of
including bad debt provisions in the SFCs' net worth needs reconsideration.
RBI has pointed out some of these structural deficiencies and suggested
corrective measures; still, the efforts need to be enhanced considerably.
1/   Including, in suit-filed cases, those principal installments which had
not fallen due.



- 22 -
3.42      Capital Structure.  The recent rapid expansion of SFCs' portfolio
has been mainly met by an increase of borrowings, in particular, bond issues
and IDBI refinance. Of the Rs 686 million increase in SFCs' total portfolio
during the past three years, Rs 571 million or 83% was futded from these two
sources. As a result, the debt/equity ratio for all SFCs together has in-
creased from 4.1 in 1969 to 4.8 at the end of March 1972.
3.43      Because of the great variance of portfolio size and relatively small
difference in share capital amount among individual SFCs, their debt/equity
ratios vary (see Annex 2.1) but reached 6.2 for Mysore and 8.6 for Maharashtra
(September 1972). Generally, SFCs are not enthusiastic about public issue of
share capital because of its high cost. (Usually a guaranteed dividend of
at least 5% is necessary for a public issue to be successful, which means
that the cost to SFC of such and issue is likely to exceed 10%, taking into
account the income tax rate of 55%.) RBI and IDBI recently recommended that
SFCs make private issues of share capital to be subscribed equally by the
State Government and IDBI with a minimum dividend of 3.5%. IDBI, together
with RBI, should make continued efforts to press those SFCs with a narrow
equity base to replenish their share capital.
3.44      SFC's current liabilities as of the end of March 1972 totaled Rs 105
million. On their assets side, cash holdings, bank deposits, and Government
securities amounted to Rs 111 million. Since SFCs can also resort to RBI for
short-term borrowings and IDBI refinance, their liquidity position is satis-
factory.
3.45      Earnings Record.  The consolidated income statements for 18 SFCs
during the last three years are shown in Annex 2.8 and analyzed below:
Percentage of Average Assets (%)           1969/70      1970/71      1971/72
Gross Income                                 6.75         7.04         7.29
Financial Expenses                      3.95         4.05         4.14
Gross Spread                                 2.80         2.99         3.15
Administrative Expenses                 0.80         0.97         1.14
Gross Profit                                 2.00         2.02         2.01
Provision for Bad Debts                 0.16         0.18         0.12
Net Profit before Tax                         1.84         1.84        1.89
Profit after Tax as % of Share Capital        7.05        7.47         7.77
.3.46     With the rapid increase in business volume, SFCs' profitability
has improved considerably with particularly remarkable growth in the Gujarat,
Hlimachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu SFCs. Although SFCs' administrative expenses
have recently shown a substantial increase, they are still within reasonable
limits, given the staffing requirements of most SFCs.  Yet, the profits of
many SFCs are no doubt overstated due to inadequate provisions. It may be
useful for IDBI to study the feasibility of allowing SFCs a wider spread on
their refinance rates on condition that they use the benefits thus accrued
to augment their provisions.



- 23 -
3.47      Dividend.  State Governments are obligated to guarantee the payment
of the minimum dividend they fix on SFCs' shares, which, in most States, is
3.5%; SFCs have been paying dividends at this rate. The number of SFCs which
needed State Government subsidies to meet their dividend obligations decreased
from three in 1968/69 to two (Jammu and Kashmir and Orissa) in 1970/71. During
1971/72 no SFCs needed subsidies for that purpose. Yet, as of March 1972,
14 SFCs still had such subsidies (repayable) outstanding. RBI and IDBI are
exploring the feasibility of converting these dividend liabilities into
equity.
3.48      Audit.  SFC's accounts are audited by two independent auditors,
one of whom is appointed by the State Government in consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and the other by shareholders other
than the State Government and RBI. The quality of the audits vary and in
most cases improvements are needed. To this end, the RBI should ensure that
at least one of the two auditors is acceptable to it. This auditor should
follow sound auditing principles and should provide RBI with detailed audit
reports in the form normally prescribed for DFCs associated with the Bank
Group. During negotiations, IDBI assured IDA that the auditor nominated in
consultation with the Auditor-General will be requested to perform long-form
audits which will pay special attention to the establishment of adequate
provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Problems and Need for Assistance
3.49      Although their role as a source of term finance has grown rapidly in
recent years, SFCs still face many problems as noted in the foregoing para-
graphs. To sum up, major problems common to most SFCs are: (a) staff con-
straints, particularly shortage of engineering staff, and insufficient train-
ing, (b) inadequacy in project appraisal and follow-up, (c) high arrearages,
(d) low profitability, and, in some cases, (e) weak capital structures. These
problems are interrelated. Staff shortage has resulted in inadequate appraisal
which contributed to a high rate of defaults. Insufficient follow-up activi-
ties have prevented early detection of project difficulties. Conversely, low
profitability constrained SFCs in recruiting qualified staff. Any solution to
these problems can therefore only emerge from a comprehensive approach.
3.50      The great variances among SFCs in their degree of competence in
project appraisal, the soundness of their financial structures and their
scale of operations may be gauged from the table below which contrasts the
range of some indicators:



- 24 -
Indicators
(End of March 1972)                     Lowest                   Highest
Number of staff                    10  (H.P.*)           600   (Maharashtra)
Share capital (Rs million)          6.1 (H.P.*)           30.0 (TIIC, Gujarat)
Total Resources (Rs million)       14.2 (H.P.*)          282.7 (TIIC)
Loans approved (1971/72)
Total amount (Rs million)        4.5 (Assam)          106.3 (Maharashtra)
Average size (Rs '000)          42   (Gujarat)        369   (Bihar)
% going to small sector         33.3 (Assam)          100.0 (Jammu & Kashmir)
Portfolio
Loans (Rs million)              12.7 (H.P.*)          261.6 (Maharashtra)
Equity Investments (Rs million) 0   (eight SFCs)       75.5 (TIIC)
Growth of portfolio (%)**        2.8 (W. Bengal)      177.0 (H.P.*)
Arrears as % of portfolio        6.0 (Delhi)           52.7 (Assam)
Debt/equity ratio
(September 30, 1972)               0.8 (H.P.*)            8.6 (Maharashtra)
* Himachal Pradesh
** Annual average of last two years
3.51      In light of the need for a substantial improvement of the SFCs'
effectiveness as financial intermediaries, it is evident that only an
institution that is intimately conversant with the structure, policies,
operations, capital requirements and prospects of each SFC can help
upgrade the standards of SFCs. IDBI is such an institution. Because of
its close ties with SFCs, and the role its parent RBI has had in supervising
the SFCs, IDBI can be an effective instrument to improve SFCs' standards.
(The relationships of IDBI to RBI insofar as they relate to the SFCS are
discussed in Chapter IV, Section B.)
3.52      To upgrade SFCs and to ensure effective use of the proposed IDA
credit, a set of corrective measures and guidelines for each SFC has been
agreed upon between IDA and IDBI during negotiations. Each SFC will be
required, as a condition of eligibility under the IDA line of credit, to
agree to the measures and guidelines and to implement the same. The
synopsis below highlights the aspects covered in these measures and
guidelines and, at the same time, illustrates the problems common to most
SFCs:
a.   Staff constraints.  Staff needs of each SFC, for the
coming three years, were identified, and the ways in
which these needs might be met were explored. Special
attention was paid to the recruitment needs of engi-
neers and staff associated with follow-up work.  If
the SFC is too small to have internal engineering
competence, another alternative (such as a TCSC) was
proposed. The need for the SFC's staff training was
also identified, and training programs to meet this



- 25 -
need were proposed. Finally, in those cases where out-
side help is needed to staff those SFCs with particularly
serious problems, the deputation of officials of national
term-lending institutions was proposed.
b.   Appraisal standards.  The general quality of the appraisal
work done in each SFC was evaluated, and measures to
correct weaknesses in appraisal standards were devised.
In particular, it was ensured that engineering aspects
will be adequately covered, and economic merits of
projects will be evaluated in the SFC's project appraisals.
c.   Disbursements.  For SFCs whose disbursements show undue
delays, corrective measures, including streamlining of
documentation procedures, were implemented.
d.   Follow-up  SFCs' follow-up system has been upgraded.  The
review of periodical progress reports and financial state-
ments received from SFC borrowers, and inspection visits
to the projects by SFC officials will be more effectively
performed.
e.   Arrears problem.  A ceiling on the level of arrears has
been set as a condition for SFCs to qualify for IDBI refinance.
Since most SFCs now have high arrearages, a phased implementa-
tion program for each SFC was laid down, whereby time limits
for reducing arrears were set for each SFC taking into account
its present level of arrears. At the same time, a set of
corrective measures was proposed for each SFC including
(i) strengthening collection practices and recourse to legal
action; and (ii) rescheduling when appropriate. Furthermore,
the possibility of modifying the present "rebate" structure
into a more effective penalty system will be explored.
f.   Debt service coverage ratio.  With respect to the need to
improve the financial structure of the SFCs, it was decided
that the key element was an improvement in their debt-service
capacity. One indirect way of achieving this would be to
impose a stricter debt/equity covenant than that contained
in the SFC Act, which specifies a 10:1 limit. However, (i)
practically all the SFCs' resources (both equity and debt)
are provided by the State Governments and public sector
institutions; (ii) creditor and owner interests in the case
of SFCs are blurred as governmental institutions provided
both share capital and loans; and (iii) it would be difficult
to establish varying covenants for each SFC dependent on its
current financial strength. In these circumstances, it was
decided that in practice the desired financial discipline
could be achieved by supplementing the present statutory debt
limitation by requiring the SFCs to achieve a capital structure
and hence cash flow that would give them an adequate margin
for debt service. Consequently, the SFCs will be required, in



- 26 -
each of the years ahead, to cover their debt service
obligations with internally generated funds (net profits
before interest plus repayments of loan principal by
clients) by a prudent margin. This requirement is a
specific condition of eligibility for each SFC under the
IDA line of credit.
3.53      For the SFCs as a group, guidelines have been devised including:
a.   Project criteria.  Standard measures of financial and
economic evaluation, as appropriate for various sizes of
SFC projects, were laid down. Furthermore, appropriate
criteria have been determined for tests where such
criteria are appropriate.
b.   Disbursement procedures.  Appropriate guidelines for the
SFCs to follow with respect to disbursement procedures in
general were laid down.
c.   Procurement.  Guidelines for the procurement of both
domestic and foreign goods by SFCs require bor7...ers,
among other things, to obtain price quotations on major
items from several sources.
d.   Resources management.  To ensure that all undisbursed
commitments are adequately covered by available funds
after meeting debt servicing obligations, SFCs are
required to follow prudent resources management practices
including the preparation of quarterly cash flow projections.



- 27 -
IV. THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
4.01      IDBI, a wholly owned subsidiary of RBI, was established as an apex
development bank in 1964 with the objectives of coordinating the activities of,
and extending finance to, other industrial term-financing institutions, pro-
viding direct and indirect assistance to industrial units, and identifying
gaps in the industrial structure. To achieve these objectives, IDBI extends
not only direct assistance to industries in the form of loans and guarantees,
underwriting of and subscription to shares and debentures, but also indirect
assistance comprising the refinancing of loans and rediscounting of bills and
promissory notes. About 20% of IDBI's lending is the refinancing of SFC loans.
Furthermore, IDBI carries out a promotional role involving surveys of backward
areas and renders technical, managerial and administrative assistance to fi-
nancial institutions and industrial enterprises. IDBI also finances industrial
exports.
4.02      After eight years of operations, IDBI is now the largest institu-
tional source of finance with a level of commitments (1971/72) of Rs 1,217
million or $152 million (Annex 3.6). Disbursements (excluding export assistance)
amounted to Rs 795 million in 1971/72 representing 13% of total fixed in-
vestment in the private corporate sector of industry and about 20% of the total
cost of the projects financed by IDBI. All types and sizes of industries have
benefited from IDBI's operations; its direct assistance, however, has been
mainly directed to large enterprises in key sectors. Most large projects have
been financed jointly with other term-lending institutions, notably ICICI and
IFCI.
4.03      IDBI's export financing has gained prominence; one-sixth of India's
engineering exports in 1971/72 have been financed by IDBI. The balance of
payments impact of IDBI's clients over the past two years is an estimated
$300 million in net foreign exchange earnings/savings. Finally, IDBI has
displayed leadership in the development of backward areas and in stimulating
new technologies in India, many of them with the help of foreign collaborators.1/
A. IDBI as a Borrower
Board, Management and Staff, and Organization
4.04      The Board.  Responsibility for IDBI policy rests in its Board of
Directors, which is identical with that of RBI. The statutory limit on the
number of Directors, all appointed by GOI, is 20.
4.05      The present Board members number 18 (Annex 3.1).  The Governor of
RBI is the Chairman of IDBI's Board and one of the Deputy Governors is Vice-
Chairman. The Chairman, Mr. S. Jagannathan, who was appointed in June 1970,
had long been with GOI (formerly Secretary in the Ministry of Finance); he
was also an Executive Director of the Bank. The Vice-Chairman, Mr. V. V.
Chari, who took office in November 1970, had also been in Government service
1/   For further detaile, reference is invited to the Appendix.



- 28 
(formerly Secretary in the Ministry of Irrigation and Power). Ten of the
present Board members come from the private sector.
4.06      The Board usually meets six to seven times a year and deals with
general policy matters. The ordinary business of IDBI is run by the Execu-
tive Committee, comprising ten Directors including the Chairman and Vice-
C:hairman. The Executive Committee meets once a month and, among other things,
approves loans, investments and guarantees of large amounts (above Rs 2
million).
4.07      Management and Staff.  Day-to-day operations proceed under the
Immediate supervison and direction of the Vice-Chairman, who is assisted
biy a Secretariat comprising a General Manager, a Joint General Manager, five
Deputy General Managers and other staff members including economists, financial
analysts, engineers and lawyers. Mr. C. S. Venkat Rao, General Manager, who
was appointed in September 1972, has extensive experience in the field of
development finance. Prior to his appointment, he was an advisor in ADB where
he worked for 5 years. Mr. B. M. Malhotra, Joint General Manager, has been
with IDBI since its inception and was appointed to the post in May 1970.
4.08      As of June 30, 1972, IDBI had a total staff of 612 including 229
professionals. Of the total, 469 were in the head office and the rest in
three regional and ten branch offices. IDBI staffing and organization
are shown in Annex 3.2.  The academic training of the staff is generally
of high quality.
4.09      IDBI stresses staff training at all levels.  Staff members routine-
ly attend courses at RBI's Bankers' Training College (Bombay) or outside
institutions. As of the end of October 1972, 110 officers have attended such
courses, and ten of them had further training abroad with the Bank's Economic
Development Institute, the Industrial Bank of Japan, etc.
4.10      IDBI has built up a well-qualified cadre of staff.  Its management
and staff are competent and development-oriented. So far, IDBI has experienced
no difficulty in recruiting qualified staff partly because of its prestige and
partly because its pay-scales are among the highest of the public sector en-
terprises.
4.11      Organization.  With the rapid expansion of its business in recent
years, IDBI has taken steps to decentralize its work and diversify its
activities geographically. It has set up regional offices at Calcutta
(December 1969), Madras (February 1970), and New Delhi (March 1970), which
cover the Eastern, Southern and Northern Regions of the country. Also, three
regional committees comprising outside experts in industrial finance were
organized in each region to advise these offices. In addition, IDBI has
opened ten branch offices (as of June 30, 1972) in various States,
and expects to open two more by June 1973.
Policies and Practices
4.12      IDBI has considerable operational flexibility.  It is empowered
tD finance all types of industrial concerns engaged in the manufacture and



- 29 -
processing of goods, mining, transport, generation and distribution of
power in both the public and private sectors irrespective of the form of
their organization. Although IDBI has not laid down its operational pol-
icies in the form of a comprehensive policy statement, general policy guide-
lines are embodied, explicity or implicity, in the various resolutions adopted
by the Board from time to time. Almost all assistance has gone to the private
sector although recently IDBI has started to finance public sector enterprises.
(5% of total assistance has gone to public sector projects.)
4.13      Direct Assistance.  IDBI's direct assistance to industrial projects
is provided in the form of loans, investments in shares and bonds, and guaran-
tees or any combination thereof. Proportions of these components are decided
on a case by case basis, depending on the sponsoring company's debt/equity
position and the financing arrangements provided by other lenders. Major
emphasis has been placed on projects related to the leading and dynamic
sectors of the national economy such as fertilizers, petro- and heavy-
chemicals, cement, special and alloy steels, and engineering, which are
in most cases large and involve complex technology. However, in recent
years IDBI's attention has also been directed to small projects which are
promoted by technician-enterpreneurs or located in the less-developed
areas of the country. To these projects, various incentives are given in
the form of longer repayment and grace periods, concessional interest rates,
waiver of commitment charge, and lower requirements for promoter's contribution.
4.14      IDBI requires that applicants for its assistance have approached
other financial institutions before coming to it; IDBI only finances the gaps
which are not filled by other lenders. Since 1970/71 IDBI has required,
in compliance with Government guidelines, conversion options on loans where
the aggregate financial assistance by national term-finance institutions
exceeds Rs 5 million. The coordination for these matters is performed by
IDBI at an Inter-Institutional meeting which is held monthly among the five
all-India term lenders.
4.15      IDBI has no statutory limits on its maximum exposure to a single
enterprise. However, in its actual operations, IDBI's exposures in single
enterprises have been kept at reasonably prudent levels. As of June 30,
1972, 159 companies (for 167 projects) had received direct IDBI assistance;
of these only five companies received assistance (outstanding balance plus
undisbursed commitments of loans, underwriting and guarantees) 2/ in ex-
cess of 10% of IDBI's equity, the largest being 21%. Total assistance to
these companies, which are in a sound financial position, amounted to
Rs 411 million or 67% of IDBI's equity.
4.16      Refinance.  IDBI is empowered to refinance loans (with a minimum
maturity of 3 years) granted to industrial concerns by IFCI, SFCs or any
other financial institutions notified by the Government (up to 25 years) and
by scheduled banks or State cooperative banks (up to 10 years). In practice,
however, this scheme is utilized primarily by SFCs (70%) and commercial banks
(30%). IDBI's policies on refinance are as follows:
2/ Excluding assistance from the Development Assistance Fund (see Appendix,
para. A.04) for which the risks are borne by the Government.



- 30 -
a.   The extent to which refinance is provided to a single
financial institution is normally limited to three times
its equity.
b.   All types of industrial enterprises are eligible for re-
finance. However, primary consideration is given to
private sector enterprises with a net worth of less than
Rs 25 million.
c.   All branches of industries listed in the Five-Year Plans
are eligible, except a few industries designated by IDBI
as ineligible (e.g., newspaper printing).
d.   The purpose of the loan to be refinanced is normally lim-
ited to the acquisition of fixed assets, but a portion of
the loan may also be for working capital required on a
term basis.
e.   The minimum size of loans to be refinanced is Rs 0.2
million in normal cases, Rs 20,000 for loans to small
road transport operators, and Rs 10,000 for loans to
small-scale enterprises guaranteed under the Credit
Guarantee Scheme (see para. 2.23).
f.   IDBI normally refinances up to 80% of the original loan
amount but the coverage goes up to 100% for small-scale
enterprises and projects in backward areas.
g.   The credit risk is fully assumed by the financial insti-
tution which directly lends to the industrial enterprise.
h.   Terms of refinance are shown in Annexes 3.5 and 3.6.
Normally, repayment periods are up to 7 years for banks and
up to 10 years for SFCs. Interest rates are 6.75 or 7% in
normal cases, but can reach as low as 3.5% for industrial
units in the backward areas. In any case, the spread for
the primary lender cannot exceed 3.5%.
4.17      Generally, IDBI's refinance is not provided to an enterprise which
has already received its direct assistance, and vice versa. The reason for
this policy is that the difference in interest rates for both forms of as-
sistance will not always be justifiable for the final borrower, and also that,
in case of default, IDBI might be placed in an awkward position regarding the
recovery of claims, as the credit risk of refinanced loans is borne by the
original lender.
4.18      Assistance to Other Financial Institutions.  IDBI is an important
source of funds for other term-lending institutions through its subscriptions
to shares and bonds of IFCI, SFCs or any other financial institutions recommend-
ed by GOI. As of June 1972, IDBI's subscriptions amounted to Rs 332 million,
comprising shares and bonds of 16 SFCs (Rs 77 million), shares of IFCI (Rs 46



- 31 -
million) and IRCI (Rs 28 million) and debentures of ICICI (Rs 181 million).
Policies on this type of assistance are formulated in close coordination with
RBI.                                                            i
4.19      Summary.  While operating withi the broad framework of Government
policy, IDBI is given a high degree of autonomy. For the carrying out a wide
range of functions as apex institution, IDBI's statutes leave most aspects
of operational policies to the discretion of its Board. IDBI has handled
these responsibilities on sound business principles; its policy guidelines
for all its activities are reasonable. t/ During negotiations, IDBI agreed
to inform the Association of any proposed changes in the IDBI Act.
Procedures
4.20      Project Appraisal: Direct Assistance.  Appraisals of project submit-
ted for direct IDBI assistance are presently carried out by six teams in the
Project Department, each specializing in a particular field of industry and
comprising six to seven members including engineers, economists and financial
analysts. In some cases, where the project involves a large capital outlay
and complex technology, IDBI seeks the advice of outside techpical consultants.
4.21      Since late 1970, IDBI has strengthened its financial and economic
analysis of projects by adopting two acceptance criteria for direct assistance:
(a) the internal financial rate of return of the project, and (b) its implicit
foreign exchange rate. For the former a cut-off rate of 15% has been adopted.
The foreign exchange criterion of the project is based on the domestic cost
incurred per unit of foreign currency saved/earned. IDBI allows a 30% margin
above the prevailing exchange rate (Rs 7.28 - US$1); thus, a project whose
foreign exchange rate is Rs 9.75 per US$ or lower is considered economically
justified. In applying the two criteria, IDBI attaches more weight to the
second one and will reject a project which fails the foreign exchange test
even if it has an acceptable financial rate of return. An ex,-post analysis
of the projects directly assisted by IDBI since inception shows that it has
financed both financially and economically viable units prior to adopting
the two acceptance criteria: overall, the weighted internal rate of return
and the implicit foreign exchange rate have been 15.3% and Rs 8.3 per US $
respectively. However, projects for 34 of the 159 companies directly assisted
would not have passed the test of the foreign exchange criterion. Although
the quality of IDBI's economic evaluation is satisfactory as it stands, the
size and importance of many of IDBI's projects would warrant that IDBI ufurther
improve its economic analysis, for instance, by introducing a time-dimension
to the foreign exchange criterion.
4.22      IDBI's appraisal of directly assisted project is thorough and effi-
cient. Out of 167 projects approved to date, 98 took less than six months be-
tween application and approval; only 24 projects took more than one year.
4.23      Project Appraisal: Refinance.  Appraisal of loans submitted for re-
finance is carried out by the Refinance Department and the regional offices on
1_/ For further aspects of IDBI's policies and practices, see Appendix.



- 32 -
the basis of appraisal reports prepared by the primary lenders. -   Partly be-
cause the number of applications is extremely large (about 2,800 in 1971/72)
and loan amounts mostly small (Rs 150,000 on the average), and partly be-
cause the loan risks are all assumed by the primary lender, IDVI's review
is rather cursory. It is necessary for IDBI to strengthen the present
appraisal mechanism for refinancing loans because effective usq of the
proposed IDA credit is largely hinged on improving SFCs' appraJsal standards.
IDBI has already proposed to reorganize its Refinance Department to ensure
that SFC appraisals of projects seeking IDBI refinance be thoroughly reviewed.
During negotiations, an agreement was reached with IDBI on the details of the
reorganization, including staffing, and on appraisal procedures to be applied
to projects of various sizes.
4.24      Procurement and Disbursement.  IDBI tries to ensure that its clients
procure equipment from the most competitive sources by requiring submission
of quotations from several reputable manufacturers. IDBI usually makes dis-
bursements in installments and ensures that disbursements are kept within the
actual acquisition of assets. IDBI's procurement and disbursement procedures
seem appropriate.
4.25      Follow-U2.  In recent years IDBI has stressed follow-up work and
has increased staff of the Follow-up Department from 8 in 1966167 to 35 in
1971/72. Whenever a borrowing company is judged to need closet attention
because of managerial, technical or financial deficiencies, IDBI exercises
the right to nominate a director on the company's board. As of September
1972, IDBI's nominees have been appointed to 44 companies--for--iuch reasons.
Generally, IDBI's follow-up system for direct assistance seems to be well
organized and follow-up action effectively performed.
Financial Performance
4.26      Earnings Record.  Comparative income statements for the past five
years are shown in Annex 3.17 and analyzed below:
Percentage of Average Assets (Z)  1967/68  1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1970/71
Gross Income                         6.14     6.12      6.29     6.06      6.00
Financial Expenses                3.88      3.90     3.85      3.83     3.99
Gross Spread                         2.26     2.22      2.44     2.23      2.01
Administrative Expenses            0.20     0.20      0.22     0.36      0.39
Net Profit                           2.06     2.02      2.22     1.87      1.62
1/   With respect to SFC loans, RBI's Industrial Finance Department scruti-
nizes them at an earlier stage for RBI's representative op the SFC boards.



- 33 -
Net Profit as % of
Average Net Worth                    13.99   14.39    15.79    11.94       9.26
Share Capital                        17.88   20.61    25.61    16.49    12.69
4.27      The growth of gross income in 1971/72 was kept at a modest rate of
12% due to a change in composition of the portfolio with low-interest assistance
gaining in importance. On the other hand, financial expenses increased by
25% in the year, because of higher interest charges on borrowings from RBI
following the January 1971 rise in the Bank Rate (from 5% to 6%). The sharp
increase of administrative expenses in the past two years was mainly due to
staff increases and openings of branch offices. These factors were combined
to reduce gross profits in 1971/72. In view of the good quality of the
portfolio (para. 4.30), IDBI has not yet felt the need to make provisions
for possible bad debts.
4.28      Financial Position.  Comparative balance sheets (including the De-
velopment Assistance Fund) for the last five years are shown in Annex 3.18.
IDBI's total assets have grown about 17% p.a. in the last four years and as
of June 30, 1972, totaled Rs 3,450 million. The portfolio of loans (in-
cluding bills rediscounted) and investments (including bonds and debentures),
which together have accounted for 90-95% of the total assets, explains almost
all of the above increase. About one-third of its assets are accounted for
by direct assistance to industry.
4.29      Quality of Portfolio:  Direct Loans.  IDBI's arrears position
during the past three years is shown in Annex 3.19 and summarized below as
of June 30, 1972:
(Rs million)
Age of      Number       Overdue                    Principal affected by
arrears        of        principal              overdue principal & interest
(months)    Projects    & interest    Amount          % of total loans outstanding
O -  3          9            1.3         23.6                   3.1%
3 - 12          6           2.4          21.9                   2.9%
Over 12         4           3.9          10.1                   1.2
Total          19           7.6          55.6                   7.2%
4.30      From its inception to June 1972, IDBI approved direct industrial
loans to 110 projects 1/ totaling Rs 1,942 million. Twenty two projects
1/   Of the 167 projects directly assisted by IDBI, 57 projects received fi-
nance only in underwriting and/or guarantee.



- 34 -
(Rs 350 million) had their repayment schedule rephased mostly because of
delays in commissioning of the projects. Of the outstanding balance of
IB 767 million, Rs 32 million (4%) involving ten projects, were af-
iEected by overdue principal and/or interest for more than three months.
I]DBI has a director on the boards of nine of the ten companies in arrears.
The amount of principal actually in arrears (including overdues for less than
t:hree months) was Rs 4 million or 0.5% of the total loan portfolio. There
have been no court cases so far. IDBI expects no actual losses from these
arrearages. Overall, IDBI's loan portfolio is satisfactory.
4.31      Quality of Portfolio:  Refinance.  There have been no defaults by
primary lenders on their repayments to IDBI. Further, IDBI may withdraw
Erom their accounts maintained with RBI if a default should occur.
4.32      Quality of Portfolio:  Investments.  The acquisition cost of shares/
debentures (other than for financial institutions) held in the investment port-
folio as of June 30, 1972, amounted to Rs 179.8 millton for 84 companies.
Taking the portfolio of quoted shares and debentures as a whole, the total
market value amounted to Rs 197.3 million against the total acquisition cost
of Rs 118.8 million.
4.33      Of the shares of 82 concerns 1/ held, only 17 have paid dividends
on either ordinary shares or preferred shares or on both. Interest on deben-
t:ures has been received regularly. The average yield on investments in shares
and debentures is about 7.7% on debentures and 9.2% on ordinary and preferred
sihares paying dividends. However, if both dividend-paying and non-dividend-
paying shares are included, the average yield amounts to only 1.3%.
4.34      Capital Structure.  IDBI's paid-up share capital and reserves were
Rs 614 million as of June 30, 1972. IDBI does not have any statutory or
written policy limit on the maximum amount of borrowing. During the past
six years, its debt/equity ratio remained below 6.65:1 and decreased to 4.6:1
as of June 30, 1972, due to a total share capital increase of Rs 200 million
during 1971 and 1972.
June 30                  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972
I)ebt/equity ratio                  6.01  6.57  6.64  6.32  5.02   4.64
(including contingent
liabilities as debt)
4.35      In lending to the IDBI, the question arises as to what specific
financial covenants the Association should require and in particular
wqhether a debt/equity covenant is appropriate in this case. While IDBI
has its own legal identity, for all practical purposes it functions as a
department of RBI and it cannot be put into liquidation under the normal
corporate system. Not only is IDBI a wholly-owned subsidiary of RBI, the
Boards of IDBI and RBI are identical. Furthermore, RBI's Governor is
Chairman of IDBI's Board and one of RBI's Deputy Governors is in charge of
1/  In two of the 84 concerns IBDI has invested in debentures only.



- 35 -
IDBI as its Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive. In addition, the latter heads
the Industrial Finance Department of RBI which works in close collaboration
with IDBI in supervising the SFCs (see para 4.38). Apart from these
functional ties, the financial relationship between IDBI and RBI is very
close as the RBI is the major source of finance for IDBI. Finally, IDBI
was established as a full subsidiary of RBI to co-ordinate national credit
policy for all long-term lending institutions in India; it is one face of
India's central banking complex. Given the close integration of IDBI and
India's central bank, it was decided that it was neither necessary nor
appropriate in this case to require a debt/equity covenant. At the same
time, however, it should be noted that in practice IDBI follows prudent
financial policies and that it is a sound and creditworthy borrower in its
own right.
4.36      Audit.  IDBI's accounts are audited by an independent accountant
who is appointed by RBI. All past accounts have been approved without quali-
fications. The present auditing firm, K. S. Aiyar & Company, is one of the
oldest firms of chartered accountants in India. The firm is competent. During
negotiations IDBI agreed that future audits will be in the degree of detail
normally required for DFC clients of the Bank Group.
IDBI's Creditworthiness: Summary
4.37      IDBI has handled its many responsibilities well and the resolutions
adopted by the Board from time to time portray both soundness in financial
management and willingness to venture into new activities. IDBI's appraisals
of projects are thorough. In view of the responsibility placed on IDBI to
engage in concessionary financing and promotional operations, IDBI's earn-
ings are satisfactory. The quality of IDBI's loan portfolio is satisfactory
due to IDBI's high appraisal standards and the increased attention that has
been placed on follow-up. These factors are reinforced by RBI's special re-
lationship with IDBI. IDBI is a creditworthy borrower for the proposed IDA
credit.
B. Relations with the SFCs
4.38      Since its establishment, IDBI's relations with SFCs have been very
close in many respects. RBI, IDBI's parent, also monitors SFCs operations
through its Industrial Finance Department (IFD) from the central bank's point
of view. The relations between IDBI/RBI and SFCs comprise ownership and
board membership, guidance in policy matters, financial, managerial and
technical advice and, most importantly, the provision of capital for SFCs.
These relations are described in more detail below. General supervisory
power over SFCs has to date been exercised by RBI's IFD. IDBI complements this
activity in supervising SFCs on a day-to-day basis through the refinancing
of their loans. IDBI's Vice-Chairman also exercises control over IFD, so
that the two groups are coordinated through this common leadership. However,



- 36 -
in view of the recent substantial growth of the SFCs' business and their
increased attention to the small-scale industrial sector, the collaboration
between IFD and IDBI needed strengthening. The Association agreed with IDBI
on an effective coordination and clear division of responsibility between IDBI
and, IFD vis-a-vis the SFCs.
Ownership and Board Membership
4.39      RBI/IDBI is a shareholder in each of the 18 SFCs.  Since its establish-
ment, IDBI has taken up for RBI the subscription to SFCs' share capital in-
creases and is now a shareholder in eight SFCs. Together they account for
22Z of the aggregate share capital of SFCs. RBI is empowered to appoint a
director on each SFC board. These directors are all experienced officials
of RBI or IDBI (as of September 1972, directors for 16 SFCs are from RBI
ancl for two SFCs from IDBI). Although IDBI and RBI are only minority share-
holders, they exert a strong influence on SFCs' boards because their dis-
agreement with specific loan proposals means refusal of IDBI refinance.
Even for SFC loans below Rs 0.2 million, which are eligible for almost auto-
matic refinancing by IDBI, IDBI retains its influence as loans of such size 1/
are referred to the executive committee of SFCs of which RWI's representative
on the board is a member. IDBI and RBI officials meet wi'A SFCs* management
at frequent regular intervals (every three to four weeks on the average);
they are in an excellent position to pinpoint weaknesses in appraisals and to
propose corrective measures. To enable IDBI and RBI to have an even stronger
voice on each SFC's board, RBI has proposed an amendment to the SFC-Act to
pass IFCI's seats on SFCs' boards on to IDBI.
Policy Influence
4.40      The SFC Act authorizes RBI, with Government approval, to inspect
SFCs at any time. (GOI has given a blanket consent in this regard.) Inspections
take place about once every two years for each SFC and cover not only its
financial aspects but also operational policies and procedures. RBI sends
the inspection report to the SFC's management and the State Government, after
having discussed the findings with them. RBI also requires each SFC to submit
monthly, quarterly and annual reports on its operations and finances. The
rudiments of a system exist but it needs considerable strengthening.
4.41      Based on these reports and on its inspections, RBI formulates
recommendations on measures to improve appraisal standards and issues guide-
linies on financial prudence. Examples of such guidelines are RBI's recommend-
at-Lon for SFCs to limit their guarantees for deferred payments to 50% of the
maximum loan exposure in a single enterprise, and its recommendation to stop
re:Lying on deposits as a source of funds (such deposits are usually more
costly than other sources of funds). RBI has also advised SFCs to cut down
on their exposure in certain industries, particularly textiles, when such
industries have taken too prominent a share in the portfolio.
1/   There is a minor exception:  the managing directors of a few SFCs are
allowed to approve small loans below Rs 50,000.



- 37 -
4.42      IDBI, though broadly functioning within the framework of priorities
established by the Government, has been free from political influences in
its decision-making process. Having been set up to identify gaps in India's
industrial structure and to establish and enforce a framework of priorities,
IDBI is in a position to influence other term-lending institutions in their
policies and procedures. The concessionary financing policy adopted by SFCs
for small-scale firms and those in backward areas reflects IDBI's interest
rate policies. Furthermore, IDBI can enforce this system of interest rates
by setting ceiling rates SFCs may charge in their operations vis-a-vis the
small-scale sector and backward areas, whenever such loans are to be refinanced
by IDBI. Further examples of IDBI's influence are the reduced margin require-
ments by SFCs for units in the small-scale sector and in backward areas and
particularly for those sponsored by technician-entrepreneurs, and the lower
minimum loan amounts SFCs are now willing to extend for such units.
Technical Assistance
4.43      Whereas much of IDBI's direct lending has been concentrated in the
Western Indian States, with the opening of branch and regional offices (para
4.11) IDBI should increasingly be in a position to provide more efficient
assistance to the SFCs. In view of the inadequacy of staff in some SFCs, it
is desirable that IDBI intensify its efforts to help SFCs recruit qualified
staff and upgrade existing staff levels. In some cases, help may take the
form of IDBI deputing its officers to SFCs for a certain period of time and
an understanding with IDBI in this respect has been reached during negotia-
tions. RBI and IDBI have already loaned their officials to SFCs in some
cases.
4.44      RBI and IDBI have paid particular attention to the position of
managing director of SFCs. RBI is consulted by the State Governments re-
garding the appointment of SFCs' managing directors and has indicated the
qualifications and experience to be expected of candidates. Also, RBI and
IDBI organized an orientation course for newly-appointed managing directors
during which they are familiarized with IDBI's project appraisal criteria.
Of particular importance in this context has been a project appraisal manual
prepared by RBI, which is being revised and expanded by IDBI and will shortly
be made available to all SFCs.
4.45      The establishment of TCSCs, as proposed and sponsored by IDBI for
each State, is of particular relevance to those SFCs whose smallness does
not warrant the establishment of internal engineering staff. Two such
TCSCs are already functioning in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. In cases where
projects of particularly complex technology are proposed which go beyond
the expertise of such Centers, IDBI is prepared to help out with its own
engineers or will arrange for outside consultants. Furthermore, to help
SFCs in arranging technical advice for their clients, IDBI has prepared,
in consultation with other term-lending institutions, an inventory of
available private technical consultancy services in each State; a list of



- 38 -
these services will be available to the business community to supplement the
promotional task of development banks. Also, IDBI has encouraged SFCs to
cooperate more closely with other financing institutions at the State level.
Such cooperation will be faciliated through the Inter-Institutional meetings
which are sponsored by IDBI.
4.46      In line with the recent emphasis on the development of backward
areas 1/, IDBI has encouraged SFCs to open branch offices, especially in
such areas. Seven SFCs have so far opened branch offices. Maharashtra
made a major effort in this regard by opening 25 branch offices and Uttar
Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh SFCs have opened seven and four branches re-
spectively. The map in Annex 2.3 shows the location of backward districts
and of each SFC in India and reveals the magnitude of the problem. However,
as most SFCs are located in or close to backward areas, they are in an ex-
cellent position to address themselves to the problems of poor districts and
only one percent of all districts in India has not yet received an SFC
loan. Still, SFC assistance has been largely concentrated (75% of SFCs'
loan approvals have been extended to one-third of all districts in India)
and more needs to be done by them to develop backward areas.
Finance
4.47      The following table shows the position of IDBI and RBI as pro-
viders of capital vis-a-vis each SFC as of June 30, 1972:
1/   IDBI has helped in the formulation of Government strategy to develop
backward areas. In 1970 all 332 districts in India were surveyed
and 199 of them were classified as backward. These 199 districts
account for 60% of total area in India and 53% of population. They
qualify for concessional assistance by financing institutions.
Furthermore, select districts (two districts in backward States and
one poor district in more developed States) are eligible for a
GOI grant of one-tenth of the fixed capital investments of projects.



- 39 -
(Rs in million)
Shares               IDBI's                 Total   Percentage
Held by     Finances Outstanding          Resources      of
SFC           IDBI/RBI  Bonds   Refinance   Total         of SFCs  (5) to (6)
(1)              (2)      (3)        (4)       (5)          (6)         (7)
Andhra Pradesh        2.0       4.3       45.6      51.9        140.6      36.9
Assam                 2.0       4.3        3.5       9.8         50.0      19.6
Bihar                 1.5       1.0       14.8      17.3         58.0      29.8
Delhi                 0.2        -        19.0      19.2         51.7      37.1
Gujarat               7.0       2.2       49.2      58.4        208.3      28.0
Haryana               2.3       -         35.7      38.0         91.3      41.6
Himachal Pradesh      0.2       -          4.1       4.3         14.7      29.3
Jammu & Kashmir       2.2      -           2.0       4.2         28.8      14.6
Kerala                1.6       3.6       13.7      18.9         89.9      21.0
Madhya Pradesh        1.5      12.9       12.1      26.5         90.4      29.3
Maharashtra           6.3       4.4       56.8      67.5        294.1      23.0
Mysore                4.0       2.5       35.4      41.9        134.1      31.1
Orissa                2.0       4.9        3.9      10.8         48.7      22.2
Punjab                1.5       -         15.8      17.3         63.7      27.1
Rajasthan             2.1       4.8       18.8      25.7         74.0      34.7
Uttar Pradesh         1.5       1.9       41.9      45.3        135.7      33.4
West Bengal           4.5       5.5       17.7      27.7         85.2      32.5
TIIC                  7.5       0.3       48.1      55.9        331.0      16.9
49.9     52.6       438.1    540.6      1,991.0       27.2
4.48      IDBI's refinance assistance accounts for the bulk (85%) of total
outstanding IDBI assistance to SFCs, while bonds and shareholdings account for
the difference in about equal proportions.   Overall, the aggregate balance
from IDBI and RBI accounted for 32% of SFCs' total resources, making them
the largest source of finance for SFCs. With the establishment of IDBI,
RBI has stopped extending fresh term-capital to SFCs and has given IDBI
full authority to take over this function. However, RBI still makes short
term credits available to SFCs in small amounts.
4.49      IDBI's refinance is an advantageous source of capital for SFCs,
enabling them to extend finance at concessionary terms to units in the small-
scale sector and in backward areas. Not only are interest rates for such
units lower , IDBI is also prepared to refinance up to 100% of the loan
amount instead of the normal 80%. It is therefore remarkable that SFCs
in the less-developed States have hardly availed themselves of IDBI's
refinance activity: in Assam and Jammu and Kashmir IDBI's outstanding refi-
nance is only 7% of the total resources of the SFC, in Orissa 8%, and in
three further SFCs between 13% and 15%. Inadequate financial planning is the
main reason in these cases; these SFCs already had more funds at their dis-
posal than business demand warranted.   On the other hand, the SFCs in Andhra
Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana have made ample use of IDBI's
refinance facility; refinanced loans amount to between 31% and 39% of their
total resources.



- 40 -
IDBI's Effectiveness vis-a-vis SFCs
4.50     Particularly during the past two years, following IDBI's promotional
work at the State level, the ties between IDBI/RBI and the SFCs have become
stronger. However, to ensure effective utilization of the proposed credit,
and in view of the program to upgrade the standards of each SFC (para. 3.52),
[DBI and the Association agreed, during negotiations, on the organizational
and staffing arrangements required to administer the credit and supervise
the SFCs. Specifically, the Association has been satisfied that:
a.   a systematic reporting system was developed between the
SFCs and IDBI/RBI, covering SFC operations, resource
position, financial condition and performance, arrears,
etc;
b.   biennial comprehensive field inspections, follow-up visits
every six months and a written evaluation of each SFC are
done, covering all the foregoing;
c.   the up-grading program referred to previously is carefully
monitored;
d.   SFC projects presented for financing are carefully reviewed
by qualified staff before use of the credit is authorized.
V. BUSINESS PROSPECTS
Industrial Investment Perspectives
5.01      A major disappointment in the economic front during FY1972 was the
poor showing of industrial production. Nevertheless public sector develop-
ment expenditure was maintained at about the planned level, an important
achievement in itself considering the recent hostilities and their concomitant
budgetary pressures. The overall deficit for FY1972 is now estimated at
Rs 3,850 million, an increase of 65% over the original estimate. This com-
pares with the Rs 2,420 million budgeted for FY1973. For the remaining years
of the Fourth Plan, industrial output will largely depend on augmenting capa-
city utilization in the steel and fertilizer industries and increasing the
production of cotton textiles, sugar and engineering goods.
5.02      India has now achieved a well-diversified industrial structure
though further imports of equipment and technology are needed to refine and
develop this industrial base. Investment prospects in certain steels, in-
dustrial machinery and food items, chemicals, cement and gypsum are particu-
larly bright as supply lags behind effective demand. The recent increase
in the number of licenses issued for these industries reinforce such expectations.
There has also been a marked improvement of the political climate since the
difficulties experienced in November/December 1970. More cooperation is
evident between trade unions and management and the Government seems deter-
mined to turn the course of events; it has assumed powers to take over any



- 41 -
company that has remained closed for more than three months, in order to
reactivate idle capacities.
5.03      There is another factor - the Government development rebate -
providing a stimulus to the investment climate. This rebate, which will be
allowed up to May 31, 1974, is a special depreciation allowance and amounts
to 15-25%, on the average, of the cost of a new plant or machinery. Term-lend-
ing institutions are therefore optimistic about investment prospects in the
immediate future.
5.04      On balance, the future appears to hold satisfactory prospects
especially if the recent increase in industrial production continues despite
this year's poor monsoon. Significantly, the main feature of the 1972/73
Budget is a large increase of Rs 7.1 billion ($888 million) or about 22% over
the 1971/72 Budget, which, it is hoped, will serve as a catalyst for a revival
of growth in the industrial sector. Furthermore, the new licensing policy
has already brought about a further channeling of resources into priority
sectors; core sector projects sponsored by large firms are progressing and
the development of small industries and those in backward areas are being
promoted actively.
Business Prospects and Resource Requirements of SFCs
5.05      Business Estimates.  Annex 2.11 shows IDBI's projections of the
approvals, commitments and disbursements of the SFCs in their next two fiscal
years, from April 1, 1973 to March 31, 1975, compared with actual performance
in fiscal 1972 and an estimate for fiscal 1973 (based on actual operations
for six months). These are summarized in the following table:
(Rs million)
Total
FY 1972    FY 1973    FY 1974    FY 1975   FY 74-75
(Act)     (Est.)      (Proj.)    (Proj.)    (Proj.)
Approvals
Loans                 634        772         909       1,056       1,965
Equity                  7         23          28          29          57
Total                 641        795         937       1,085       2,022
Commitments
Loans                 539        656         772         897       1,669
Equity                  6         19          23          24          47
Total                 545        675         795         921       1,716
(For Imports)         (124)     (154)        (180)       (208)       (388)
(For Domestic
Procurement)       (421)      (521)       (615)       (713)    (1,328)
Disbursements
Total                 396        570         690         821       1,511



- 42 -
The tabulation shows an average annual increase in the rate of loan and in-
vestment approvals of about 18% in the next two years, compared with an
estimated 24% in the year now drawing to an end. This is not unreasonable
and may indeed be conservative given the buoyancy in industrial investments
in the small-scale sector. The projections are also in line with the Govern-
ment's estimate of total fixed investment in small-scale enterprises in the
Fourth Plan period.
5.06      Compared with approvals totaling Rs 2,022 million in the next two
y,ears, commitments would amount to Rs 1,716 million and are projected to
grow at about 17% per year. Disbursements increase at about 20% per year.
5.07      Capital Requirements.  To cover the aggregate commitments of the
S;FCs in the next two years, IDBI estimates that, as shown in Annex 2.12, SFCs
will have resources totaling Rs 586 million available (Rs 136 million from
internal cash generation, share capital increases and the sale of equity
investments; Rs 102 million from loan collections, net of repayments; and
Rs 348 million from net bond issues). Additional resources of Rs 1,130 million
must, therefore, be found.  Most of these resources must csame from IDBI,
chiefly through its refinancing scheme. To assist in fir ..cing this sum,
IDBI has asked for an IDA credit. (As indicated in para. i.14, IDBI is to
provide Rs 999 million for SFCs, including the proposed credit.)
5.09      Import Component of SFC Business.  The import component of the proj-
ects SFCs finance, especially those in the small-scale sector, is difficult
to assess. Estimates vary from 10% to 20% 1/. If, to be conservative, the
lower figure of 10% is used and is applied to the historical record (which
shows that SFCs finance, on the average, 50% of fixed project costs), then of
the total project cost of Rs 3,340 million, about Rs 334 million (or $42
miLllion) would be needed to finance imports during 1974-75. This is equiva-
Lent to about 28% of the total resource gap of the SFCs.
5.10      Financial Prospects of SFCs.  Annexes 2.13 and 2.14 show the finan-
c:Lal prospects (profit and loss, and balance sheets) of the SFCs if they can
f-Lnd the additional Rs 1,130 million needed to finance their prospective com-
m.Ltments in the next two years. It shows that profits, growing in absolute
terms at about 30% a year, will grow to 11% of share capital after tax.
This assumes a constant relationship between portfolio and administrative
excpenses, about 1%, which is not unreasonable, and a constant level of pro-
viisions for bad debts, which is obviously too low. Provisions should cer-
tair,ly be increased; the result would be a decline in profits. As for their
balance sheets, SFCs' assets are projected to grow at about 23% per year in
fiLscal 1974 and 1975. Loans will then account for 86% of those assets. On
the liabilities side, their equity will grow by about 11%; nevertheless,
their consolidated debt/equity ratio will increase to 5.5:1. These estimates
are aggregated for all the SFCs. There are significant variations among
them, in capital structure, composition of assets and profitability.
1/   NSIC suggests 20% as the import component in the small-scale sector.  A
recent survey by the (Indian) National Council of Applied Economic Research,
based on a sample of 159 small-scale units in 22 industries, comes up with
an estimate of 17%. SFC-projects financed during the past four years
had an average import component of 10%.



- 43 -
IDBI's Prospects
5.11      The crucial factor in financing the SFCs is IDBI's resource posi-
tion. IDBI's projections of its own operations, including refinancing, for
the five years through June 30, 1976, are shown in Annex 3.20. Approvals
are projected to increase from Rs 1.80 billion in 1972 to Rs 2.43 billion in
1976. Actual approvals jumped to Rs 1.7 billion in 1972 from Rs 651 million
in 1970. Thus, because of a time lag, commitments are expected to increase
from Rs 1.22 billion in 1972 to Rs 1.89 billion in 1973. Commitments are pro-
jected to increase thereafter to Rs 2.22 billion in 1976, or at an annual
average growth rate of about 6%. Projections appear conservative and rea-
sonable.
5.12      In the two years covered by the projections for the SFCs, IDBI's
commitments are expected to total Rs 4.6 billion, an average of Rs 2.3 mil-
lion, compared with Rs 1.89 million estimated for fiscal 1973. Resources
sufficient to cover only about 47% of this sum are available from net cash
generation, loan repayments, share capital increases and sales of investments
(Annex 3.21). The remaining 53% must be found. IDBI expects to raise an
additional 19% (net) from RBI and other government sources, leaving about
34% of the total unaccounted for so far. Following two successful bond issues
during 1972, IDBI plans to issue further bonds totaling Rs 680 million in
the next two years. Assuming these issues succeed, Rs 924 million would remain
to be covered.
5.13      Of IDBI's total commitments of Rs 4.6 billion in the next two years,
Rs 999 million represents financing for SFCs, or about 22% of total commit-
ments. This comprises Rs 919 million for refinancing operations, including the
proceeds of the proposed credit, and Rs 80 million for contribution to the
capital of SFCs.
5.14      In short, the projected SFCs' shortfall of Rs 1,130 million is to be
provided by IDBI in the amount of Rs 999 million including the proposed cred-
it of Rs 200 million equivalent. The remaining gap of Rs 131 million would
have to be covered by other sources; otherwise, SFCs would be forced to scale
down their commitments. IDBI's shortfall of Rs 924 million will be reduced
to Rs 724 million if the proposed $25 million credit is approved.
5.15      The proposed IDA credit of $25 million would cover about 22% of
IDBI's gross capital shortfall and 18% of the SFCs' capital shortfall. It
would represent about 22% of IDBI's proposed refinancing of SFCs' operations
and about 11% of total SFC commitments over the two-year period. The proposed
credit would only partially meet the foreign exchange requirements of the
SFCs ($42 million estimated for two years). It is evident that IDBI will
have to secure additional funds amounting to about Rs 724 million to cover
the commitments it proposes to make in the next two years. During negotiations,
the Association ascertained that IDBI faces no problem to fill this projected
resource gap. From RBI's NIC (LTO) Fund, which is exclusively for IDBI's use,
a balance of Rs 822 million will be available through 1975. Furthermore, IDBI
could also resort to rediscounting of export bills. By June 1975, an amount
of Rs 821 million is projected to be available for that purpose.



- 44 -
VI. THE PROPOSED LENDING SCIIEME
6.01      General.  The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be re-lent
by the Government to IDBI for the exclusive use of SFCs, through IDBI's re-
financing scheme. The number of sub-projects financed by the credit would
be large (estimated at about 2,000). In view of the objectives of this credit
to upgrade the standards of SFCs and to support small- and medium-sized in-
dustries, the lending scheme calls for special arrangements to ensure effective
use and efficient administration of the credit. During loan negotiations, the
Association reached an agreement with the Government and/or IDBI on the
following points.
(.02      On-lending Terms.  The principal terms and conditions of on-lend-
ing of the proceeds of the credit would be as follows: (a) The Government
wrould lend the proceeds of the credit to IDBI at an interest rate of 5-3/4%
per annum. As the foreign exchange risk associated with the proposed Credit
(para. 6.12) would be borne by GOI, amortization would be on a fixed schedule
approximating the estimated amortization pattern of sub-loans. (The schedule
extends over 15 years.) (b) IDBI would lend the proceeds to SFCs at an
interest rate of 6.5% per annum plus the commitment charge currently in
effect for IDBI's refinancing operations (Annex 3.5). Amortization would
be on a project-by-project basis conforming to IDBI's normal procedures
for refinancing subject to a period of not more than 15 years. (c) SFCs
would lend to enterprises at an interest rate of not less than 9% per annum
plus the SFCs' current commitment charges. Repayment periods would not exceed
15 years including grace. SFCs would on-lend to enterprises on terms and
conditions that give adequate protection to the SFCs, IDBI and the Association.
Their form of sub-loan agreement with borrowing enterprises would be subject
to the Association's approval.
6.03      This interest rate structure would allow SFCs a spread of at least
2.5% which is necessary to enable the SFCs to cover their costs and to improve
their financial positions. IDBI's spread would be adequate to cover its
expenses in administering the credit.
6.04      Projects Eligible for Loans.  All types of SFC projects which qualify
for IDBI refinance would be eligible for loans under the lending scheme.   IDBI
has established basic financial and economic selection criteria for projects.
These criteria have been approved by IDA during negotiations. Furthermore,
SFCs' sub-loans would be limited to projects involving investments below
Rs 10 million in order to ensure that assistance is not given to very large-
scale projects.
6.05      Use of Loan Proceeds.  The proposed credit would be used to finance
imports. For that purpose, IDA would reimburse 40% of IDBI's refinance
disbursements for SFC-projects with import components. Since the import
requirements for capital goods of SFC-financed projects are estimated at about
$42 million for two years through March 31, 1975, the proceeds of the credit
would be principally used for financing capital goods imports. However, given
the need of small-scale enterprises for imported raw materials, the proceeds



- 45 -
of the credit would also be available for such purchases, provided the sub-
borrower's need is for long-term credit as opposed to temporary working capital.
6.06      Size of Sub-Loans.  The size of SFC sub-loans to be refinanced out
of the credit would be within the present range of IDBI's refinance of SFC
loans.
6.07      Eligibility of SFCs and Institution-Building.  All 18 SFCs would in
principle be eligible for assistance under the credit. However, to ensure
effective use of IDA funds, the proceeds of the credit would be available to
only those SFCs which agree with are end able to meet over time the requirements
of the upgrading program outlined in paras. 3.52 and 3.53.
6.08      Authorization of Sub-Projects.  (a)  IDBI would submit to IDA
for its prior approval, any sub-project seeking assistance under the IDA
credit, whose loan amount exceeds Rs 1 million, including local currency
component of the credit. Appraisal reports prepared by the SFCs concerned
and IDBI's review of the appraisal will accompany the request for IDA's
approval. It is estimated that the Association would review about 40 projects
requiring its approval accounting for 10-15% of the credit. (b) With respect
to sub-projects whose loan amount is Rs 1 million or less, IDA's prior ap-
proval would not be required. However, IDBI would review all appraisals of
SFCs and submit to IDA, for authorization to withdraw from the Credit Account,
a monthly list of sub-projects in accordance with a specified format. Further-
Twre, for the review of appraisals of those sub-projects requiring a loan of
less than Rs 0.2 million including local currency, IDBI may adopt simplified
review procedures.
6.09      Review of Appraisal Reports.  Apart from the appraisals to be re-
viewed by IDA under para. 6.08(a), IDBI would submit for IDA's review other
appraisal reports which IDA selects from the monthly list mentioned above in
order to review appraisal reports prepared by each SFC.
6.10      Procurement.  To ensure that SFCs' clients procure machinery and
equipment from the most competitive sources, IDBI would set out explicit
guidelines for SFCs on the procedure of both domestic and international pro-
curement. SFCs would follow the procedures adopted by DFCs under IDA credits
and would, except for small projects, be required to obtain quotations from
at least three suppliers of both imported and indigenous machinery and
equipment.
6.11      Disbursement.  IDA would finance 40% of IDBI's dibursements to
SFCs on account of projects which include a component for the import of
machinery and equipment. The percentage thus represents an estimated average
of the foreign exchange component in SFC projects. Since the disbursement
of loans would be first made by IDBI, reimbursements would be obtained from
IDA at agreed intervals. Reimbursement to GOI would be made against IDBI's
certificate of expenditure, the documents for which would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by SFCs for submission to and inspection by
the Association as and when deemed necessary.



- 46 -
6.12      Foreigr. Exchange Risks.  Both IDBI and the SFCs would be protected
against foreign exchange risks. During negotiations, GOI agreed to assume
the foreign exchange risk on the Credit.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions
7.01      For 20 years SFCs have been specializing in providing term-
finance to small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises. The financing needs
of these sectors have been expanding rapidly, as reflected in the strong up-
swing of SFCs' business and their momentum is likely to continue in the
coming years. As India's industrial base broadens, opportunities increase for
these sectors to manufacture more complex components as well as final products.
7.02      The small-scale sector, in particular, has been accorded high prior-
ity by planning agencies in view of its important contrib,-:ions to output and
enployment, and 128 products are now reserved for exclus'-_ production by small
industries.  Spurred by numerous incentives, small indu. :Ies now contribute
more than one-half to the value added of the entire ma.iacturing sec-
tor and are growing at a faster rate than large indus -'es. At the same time,
tae sector as a whole faces a number of problems ranging from shortages in
raw materials to delays caused by import license clearances and certain
weaknesses of institutional lending policies and operations. These problems
require particular attention and SFCs, suitably strengthened, would be in a
position to address themselves to many of therm, primarily those concerned
with technical assistance and the need for capital.
7.03      SFCs are also in a position to play a significant role in the de-
velopment of backward areas. All districts in India (about 330) are covered
by the 18 SFCs and so far only four of them have not received loan assistance
from them. Still, SFC assistance has been concentrated in one-third of the
districts and more needs to be done, particularly by SFCs in industrially
backward States. Not all of the SFCs display equally high standards in
coping with existing problems, as large variations exist in their degree of
competence in project appraisal, the capabil-ity of their staff, and their
resources.  IWhile the performance of some SFCs is satisfactory, most require
considerable upgrading. The task in dealing with particular needs of each
Si C   an arduous and complicated one and requires an instrument that is
intimately associated with SFCs' operations, financial structure, objectives
and resource requirements.
7.04      IDBI is in an unusually favorable position to perform these tasks.
Thro*ugh its parent RBI, IDBI has been associated with the establishment of
SFCs and, ever since, with their impact on the small- and medium-scale in-
dustrial sectors. Furthermore, through its refinance department, IDBI is in
a position to critically evaluate the SFCs' operations, and to work with
them on a day-to-day basis. The ties between IDBI, RBI and SFCs are thus
close and manifold, comprising ownership and board membership, technical
assistance, policy influence and, most importantly, the provision of
capital.



- 47 -
7.05      IDBI is in a sound financial position, its appraisal methods are
thorough, its portfolio is in a satisfactory condition. In sum, IDBI is
creditworthy. These factors ensure IDBI's suitability as a borrower from
the Bank Group. Furthermore, over the eight years of its existence, IDBI
has assumed a position of leadership in the economy and particularly in re-
lation to other financing institutions for which IDBI is a coordinator and
an important source of funds. These aspects also reinforce the conclusion
that IDBI would be a suitable institution for the proposed credit.
7.06      SFCs' business prospects imply a growth of approvals of 18% p.a.
through 1975. This growth, although ambitious, is consistent with the objec-
tives of the Fourth Plan, and should be attainable in view of SFCs' past per-
formance, current trend and Government policies toward small industries. To
carry out their business, SFCs will continue to rely, in particular, on IDBI's
financial assistance. Projects financed by SFCs require substantial amounts
for the import of machinery and equipment. Foreign exchange requirements for
this purpose are estimated at about $42 million for the two-year period ending
March 1975.
Recommendations
7.07      SFCs' resource gap of about Rs 1,130 million, as projected by IDBI,
consists of about Rs 330 million (or $42 million) for imported machinery and
equipment and about Rs 800 million for local procurement for the two-year
period through 1975. Of the total gap, IBDI is projected to provide about
Rs 1 billion. To help IDBI meet the requirements of SFCs, an IDA credit
of $25 million is recommended. By supporting SFCs, the Association would
make a significant contribution to the financing needs of the small-scale
sector and would thus penetrate a sector that has hardly been touched hither-
to by Bank Group lending. In addition, SFCs would become more efficient in-
struments to assist small- and medium-scale industries all over India.
7.08      IDBI has demonstrated that it can put capital to effective use in
an important part of the Indian economy. Its sound financial position and
its influential role as a source of funds and a coordinator of term-financing
institutions make IDBI a suitable borrower. IDBI refinances a substantial
portion (about 45%) of SFCs' local currency loans and is expected to refinance
the bulk of SFCs' lending for the import of machinery and equipment. The IDA
credit should therefore be passed on to IDBI by GOI for the refinance of SFC-
loans for such imports.
7.09      In view of the variations in the standards of SFCs, measures have
been devised for upgrading each SFC. Before negotiations, IDBI prepared
a specific program for each SFC which formed the basis of an agreement
between IDA and IDBI during negotiations. Each SFC would be required, as a
condition of eligibility under the IDA line of credit, to agree to the
program and to implement the same. The program for each SFC (see para. 3.52)
is a comprehensive set of measures to be implemented in due course, and includes
in particular:



- 48 -
a.   measures to strengthen the staff, including the deputation
of officials by national financing institutions, the recruit-
ment of engineers, and the training of staff;
b.   measures to improve appraisal methods and follow-up, and to
deal with disbursement procedures and delays;
c.   a minimum requirement for debt service coverage;
d.   measures to reduce arrears; and
e.   long form audit reports (para. 3.48).
17.10     During negotiations, IDA and IDBI agreed on a set of operational
guidelines for the SFCs as a group (para 3.53), which include:
a.   standard measures of financial and economic evaluation for
SFC projects;
b.   guidelines for disbursement procedures; and
c.   guidelines for procurement of both foreign and domestic
machinery and equipment.
71.11     IDBI and the Association agreed, during negotiations, on plans to
strengthen IDBI's refinance department (para. 4.23) and to coordinate the
lDBI and RBI roles vis-a-vis SFCs (para. 4.39), and on the organizational
amd staffing arrangements to deal with the following points (para. 4.50):
a.   general supervision of SFC activity, including a systematic
reporting system between the SFCs and IDBI/RBI;
b.   annual field inspections and written evaluations of each SFC;
c.   monitoring of the upgrading program for SFCs; and
d.   evaluation of SFCs' appraisal of projects requesting finance
under the credit.
7.12      The Association also reached an understanding with IDBI, during
negotiations, on effective ways to secure the continuity of management for
SFCs (para 3.17) and on IDBI's plan to fill its projected resource gap (para
5.15). IDBI also agreed to inform the Association of any proposed changes
in the SFC Act and the IDBI Act and of RBI's guidelines for SFCs (paras.
3.30 and 4.19).
7.13      During negotiations, the Government explained, and the Association
agreed, GOI's plans on measures to be implemented in due course to avoid
delays in import licensing for machinery and equipment needed in SFCs'
projects (para 3.36).



- 49 -
7.14      During negotiations, the details of the proposed lending scheme
(Chapter VI) have been agreed upon between the Association, IDBI and GOI,
in particular:
a.   the on-lending terms (para. 6.02);
b.   the free limit (para. 6.08); and
c.   the foreign exchange risk which GOI would assume
(para. 6.12).






APPENDIX
Page 1
FURTHER ASPECTS OF IDBI
A. Institutional
Background of Establishment
A.01      IDBI was established in July 1964 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
RBI under the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964. Prior to its
establishment, there had been a proliferation of financial institutions,
both at the national and State levels, designed to meet the need of the indus-
trial sector for term finance. The contributions of these institutions, how-
ever, were considered inadequate both in magnitude and scope of business in
relation to the growing requirements of the industrial sector. There was
also a need for a centralized mechanism to coordinate and integrate the activi-
ties of these institutions. IDBI was established as an apex development bank,
to meet such requirements.
A.02      There were a number of reasons for establishing IDBI under the full
ownership of RBI. First, as IDBI was conceived as a lender of last resort in
the field of term finance, its role was intended to be somewhat similar to
that of RBI in short-term finance. Second, RBI's full ownership meant central-
izing the entire range of financial and credit institutions, thereby facilitat-
ing the coordination of national credit policy. Third, it was envisaged that
IDBI would take over from RBI a significant role in providing initial capital
and other resources to development finance institutions. Finally, under the
auspices of RBI, IDBI was thought better able to keep itself insulated from
political pressures.
Objectives and Powers
A.03      The principal objectives of IDBI are:  (a) to coordinate, as an
apex institution, the activities of other industrial term-financing institu-
tions (including commercial banks), (b) to provide direct and indirect fi-
nancial assistance to industrial units, (c) to plan and promote industries
of key significance to the industrial structure, and (d) to adopt and enforce
a system of priorities in promoting future industrial growth. To achieve
these objectives, IDBI is empowered by the Act to carry on a broad range of
activities, which include: (i) direct loans, underwriting of, and subscrip-
tion to shares and debentures, and guarantees, (ii) refinance of industrial
term loans and export credits; (iii) acceptance, discounting, or rediscount-
ing of bills of exchange and promissory notes, and (v) undertaking research
and surveys on marketing or investments, and providing technical and adminis-
trative assistance.
A.04      IDBI also maintains the Development Assistance Fund (DAF) as a
separate account in IDBI. The DAF was established in March 1965 under the



APPENDIX
Page 2
IDBI Act to finance only those projects for which other financial institu-
tions are unlikely to provide assistance in the ordinary course of business
because of magnitude of capital requirements, large risk involved, low profit-
ability or long gestation period. DAF assistance is by loans, investments or
guarantees and requires prior approval of GOI, which bears the financial risks.
Resources
A.05      Besides its issued capital, IDBI is empowered by the Act to raise
funds through: (1) borrowing from GOI, (2) borrowing from RBI, (3) issuing
bonds with or without GOI guarantee, (4) accepting deposits from the public,
and (5) borrowing foreign currency with prior GOI consent. IDBI's resource
position as of September 30, 1972, is shown in Annex 3.3 and summarized below:
(Rs million)
Paid-in capital                                         400.0
Reserves
General Fund                   173.7
DAF                             40.1              213.8
Borrowings from GOI
General Fund                 1,420.9
DAF                            244.2            1 665.1
Borrowings from RBI                                     930.6
Bond issues                                             286.9
Total Resources                                 3,496.4
A.06      Capital and Reserves.  IDBI's authorized capital is Rs 500 million.
The paid-in capital is Rs 400 million. Reserves amount to Rs 214 million, of
which Rs 40 million has been earmarked for DAF uses.
A.07      Borrowings from Government.  IDBI is authorized to borrow from GOI
after due appropriation by Parliament. IDBI has received six loans for a
total of Rs 1,415 million including an initial interest-free loan of Rs 100
million under budgetary allocations. The interest rate was 5% p.a. for the
second loan made in 1964/65, and 5.5% p.a. for subsequent loans. The first
loan carries a maturity of 30 years including 15 years' grace, and the sub-
sequent loans 15 years including 5 years' grace. Besides these loans, IDBI
took over from the Refinance Corporation for Industry (RCI) funds of Rs 360
million when the latter was merged into IDBI (September 1964). IDBI has not
borrowed from the Government since 1969/70. The Government loans rank pari-
passu with other debts.



APPENDIX
Page 3
A.08      Borrowing from RBI.  IDBI is empowered to borrow from RBI for pe-
riods up to 90 days against trustee securities and up to 5 years against
commercial bills of exchange or promissory notes. It can also borrow on
long term from the National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 1/
set up in RBI simultaneously with the establishment of IDBI. So far, IDBI's
borrowings from RBI have all been made from the NIC (LTO) Fund. Until 1968/
69, borrowings from RBI amounted to Rs 10-20 million a year; however, since
the discontinuance of budgetary allocations from the Government, these borrow-
ings increased to about Rs 300-400 million a year during the past two years.
Interest rate on borrowings to finance IDBI's investments in financial insti-
tutions is fixed at the Bank Rate (currently 6% per annum) or the rates of
return to IDBI, whichever is lower, while that for IDBI's other business is
the Bank Rate. The repayment period varies according to the purpose of the
borrowing and ranges from 12 to 20 years.
A.09      Bond Issues.  IDBI floated its first bond issue (Rs 127 million) in
March 1972. A second issue (Rs 160 million) followed five months later.
Both issues were oversubscribed within a few hours with nationalized
commercial banks, particularly SBI and the Central Bank of India, taking up
most of the amounts. Both were 12-year issues, offered at par at an interest
rate of 5-3/4%. GOI guaranteed repayment of principal and payment of interest.
Policies and Practices (Addendum)
A.10      Financing to Public Sector.  Until recently, IDBI had strictly re-
frained from providing financial assistance to public sector enterprises
except for export finance and rediscounting of machinery bills. However,
the slowdown of private sector investment activities due to the economic
recession in 1966-68 brought about a surplus of IDBI's resources. In early
1969, IDBI relaxed its policy and started assisting public sector enterprises
on a modest scale. Up to June 30, 1972, only four direct loans to public
sector enterprises, totaling Rs 38 million, were made. IDBI has adopted a set
of strict criteria for the eligibility of public sector projects: (a) these
projects have to pass all the usual tests given by IDBI, (b) the bulk of the
project cost has to be financed from their own internal resources, (c) they
should either be a public limited company or agree to change to such company,
(d) they will not approach the Government for any further assistance once
IDBI has started financing them.
1/   At the end of every fiscal year (June 30), RBI transfers out of its
annual gross profits a certain specified amount to replenish this fund
for the exclusive use of IDBI. The annual replenishments and outstand-
ing balance in the past four years are as below: (Rs million)
Replenishments    Outstanding (end of period)
1968/69                         200.0                  750.0
1969/70                         200.0                  950.0
1970/71                        400.0                 1,350.0
1971/72                        400.0                 1,750.0



APPENDIX
Page 4
A.11      Rediscounting of Bills.  The purpose of this scheme, introduced in
Alpril 1965, is to facilitate sales of indigenous machinery on a deferred-
payment basis. Under the scheme IDBI rediscounts bills/promissory notes
which were discounted by IDBI-approved financial institutions (as of the end
oE June 1972, seventy-five commercial and cooperative banks, the 18 SFCs,
ICICI and IFCI are included). Initially, IDBI has accepted only private
sector enterprises as purchaser-user of the machinery, but since December
1968 some autonomous public enterprises such as the State Electricity Boards
have also become eligible. The minimum amount of bills to be rediscounted
is normally Rs 10,000; however, there is no such limit for agricultural ma-
cihinery. The maximum amount for a single purchaser is fixed at Rs 5 million
over a year (Rs 10 million for the State Electricity Boards).
A.12      Export Finance.  Export finance was initially provided in the form
of refinance of term loans (with a maturity of at least six months but not
exceeding 10 years) granted by commercial banks to exporters for exports of
engineering goods and services on a deferred-payment basis. The scope of the
facility has been broadened since December 1968 by the addition of direct
loans/guarantees to exporters. Refinance is extended to commercial banks
authorized to deal in foreign exchange (presently 37 banks5), and covers up
to 100% of the original loan. Direct loans are provided -n participation
with authorized commercial banks (IDBI's share is usually 50-70% of the loan
anount).
A.13      Loan Term and Interest Rate.  Repayment periods and interest rates
for each type of IDBI assistance are summarized in Annexes 3.4 and 3.5. Re-
finance is the only type of assistance whose term is restricted by the Act.
Normally, repayment periods are permitted up to 18 years (including 3 years'
grace) for direct loans, up to 10 years including 3 years' grace for refi-
nanced loans, and up to 7 years for rediscounting. IDBI's interest rate on
direct project loans was raised in October 1970 from 8% to 8.5% in a con-
certed action with ICICI and IFCI. Subsequently, the rates for other types
of assistance were raised by about 0.5%. Currently, project refinance rates
are normally 6.75-7%, but can be lowered to 3.5% for industrial units in the
specified backward areas, provided, in any case, the spread for the primary
lender is not larger than 3.5%. Rediscounting rates range from 5% to 6%
depending on the period, provided the discounting bank obtains a margin up
to 1%.
A.14      Promotional Activities.  IDBI's promotional activities are of recent
or4g-in (mostly initiated since 1970) and are still at an experimental stage.
However, in the past three years, IDBI has increasingly emphasized this func-
tion. First, a series of surveys have been carried out in a number of back-
ward States by joint institutional survey teams under IDBI's leadership to
explore the industrial potential of each baclward region and to identify proj-
ect ideas. IDBI also intends to play an active role in the succeeding stages
of project formulation and implementation. 1/ Secondly, IDBI has initiated a
1/   As of September 1972, survey reports were completed for eleven States
and two Union Territories, and several projects in Assam had reached the
stage of a concrete proposal for financing.



APPENDIX
Page 5
move to bring together State-level institutions such as SFC, SIDC/SIIC, com-
mercial banks, State Government Industries Department and all-India term-
lending institutions, to form an Inter-Institutional Group at the State level.
The objective of such a group is to share, on a joint institutional basis,
the tasks related to the identification, formulation and implementation of
specific projects. An offshoot of this State-level coordination is the pro-
posal to set up jointly sponsored and financed TCSCs which will perform such
functions as investment surveys, feasibility studies, and technical appraisals
of projects. As of September 1972, one TCSC has been established in Kerala
and two more in Andhra Pradesh and Assam will be formed by June 1973.
A.15      IDBI is now also paying attention to the problem of rehabilitating
weak industrial units and has taken the initiative in setting up the Indus-
trial Reconstruction Corporation of India (IRCI), contributing half of its
share capital. Established in April 1971 and located in Calcutta, IRCI has
granted, up to the end of June 1972, Rs 74.4 million to rehabilitate 48
units.
Operational Records
A.16      A summary of IDBI's operations for each year from 1968/69 through
1971/72 and for the entire period since inception is shown in Annex 3.6.
During the eight years of its existence, IDBI has approved in aggregate
Rs 6.634 million, comprising Rs 2,623 million (40%) for direct assistance
(loans, investments in shares and bonds, and guarantees), Rs 1,518 million
(23%) for refinance of industrial loans, Rs 1,252 million (20%) for redis-
counting of machinery bills, Rs 774 million (11%) for export finance (loans,
refinance and guarantees), and Rs 366 million (6%) for subscriptions to shares
and bonds of financial institutions. The composition among various types of
assistance has greatly changed in the past, with rediscounting and export
finance taking up a more prominent share (40% of approvals in 1971/21 com-
pared with 4% in 1965/66).
A.17      Direct Assistance.  Approvals of direct assistance have shown a
large fluctuation, dropping from Rs 491 million in 1965/66 to Rs 158 million
in 1967/68, but again increasing to Rs 659 million in 1971/72. These yearly
fluctuations are mostly explained by (a) the change in investment climate
due to the general economic situation, (b) IDBI's inclination towards large-
scale projects which were relatively few in number, and (c) the character
of IDBI as lender of last resort. Direct assistance has been extended to
159 companies involving 167 projects.
A.18      Indirect Assistance.  Refinance of industrial loans also suffered
from the economic recession in 1966-68. IDBI's approvals declined from
Rs 210 million in 1964/65 to Rs 95 million in 1967/68. Since then, however,
approvals of refinance have been increasing and reached Rs 306 million in
1971/72. Rediscounting of machinery bills has been steadily increasing ever



APPENDIX
Page 6
since its initiation, even during the recession period. The lengthened
deferred-payment period in recession years probably explains the stability
of rediscounting figures.
A.19      Size.  Annex 3.7 provides a breakdown of IDBI operations by size.
IDBI's direct loans to individual industrial firms are of a wide range, ex-
tending from Rs 0.2 million to above Rs 200 million; the average size is
Rs 13.5 million per borrower. Loans below Rs 5 million represent 47% in
number but only 8% in amount. On the other hand, loans exceeding 10 million
represent 33% in number but 81% in amount. Also, according to the classifi-
cation of recipients, none has gone to the small-scale sector, only 5% to
medium-scale industrial concerns and 95% to large units. 1/ IDBI's direct
loans are relatively large in size, and heavily concentrated in large units.
IDBI's direct assistance including underwriting and guarantees follows the
same pattern.
A.20      On the other hand, through its indirect assistance via refinance
and rediscounting, IDBI has deployed much smaller amounts. While the ave-
rage size of a refinance loan since inception amounted to about Es O.3::mil-
lion, it has decreased to Rs 0.15 million in 1971/72. Total assistance under
IDBIts rediscounting scheme has aggregated Rs 1,352 million up to mid-1972,
benefiting in all 277 manufacturers and 1,320 purchasers-users of machinery,
the average rediscounting amount figuring at about Rs 1 million per purchaser.
A.21      Sectoral Distribution.  IDBI continues to be involved in the more
modern branches of Indian industry in its direct assistance, especially
in the chemical field to which more than half has been directed (Annex 3.8).
But there have been marked shifts in the past years in the sectoral distri-
bution with man-made fibers, machinery and paper taking up a large share.
IDBI's refinance activity shows a significant concentration in textiles (22%),
reflecting the more traditional pattern of commercial banks and SFCs. Simi-
lar trends appear in rediscounting activity where textiles accounted for 56%.
IDBI's export assistance shoxws a heavy concentration in steel intermediary
inputs as well as transmission line equipment; textile rnachinery, railway
wagons and diesel engines are also assisted by IDBI export finance.
A.22      Geographical Distribution.  In the past, much of IDBI's assistance
has gone to Western States, with Maharashtra and Gujarat accounting for 41%
of total approvals (Annex 3.9). However, with the recent opening of regional
and branch offices, and also with increased emphasis on promotional surveys
in backward areas, IDBI's assistance can be expected to be more widely dis-
persed in the future.
A.23      Maturities.  The majority of direct loans (55%) and export loans
(77%) have maturities exceeding seven years. Refinanced export loans are of
somewhat shorter maturities (50% below five years), whereas refinanced indus-
trial loans show a pattern similar to IDBI's direct loans (67% over eight
1/   A large unit is one with total project outlay exceeding Rs 10 million;
a medium-scale unit, up to Rs 10 million.



APPENDIX
Page 7
years). More than half of rediscounted bills had unexpired usances not ex-
ceeding 36 months (Annex 3.10).
A.24      Nature of Project.  Sixty-four percent of IDBI's direct assistance
but only 40% of its refinance has been channeled into new projects. One-third
of direct assistance has been for expansion projects while 3.5% has been pro-
vided to meet long-term working capital needs (Annex 3.11).
A.25      Clients.  Of 167 industrial concerns which have received direct
assistance, 99 were new companies. Of these, 85 have been assisted through
underwriting or subscription to shares and debentures. However, IDBI's par-
ticipation in public sector projects has been only 5% of its total assistance
(para. A.09).
IDBI's Financial Projections
A.26      Projected income statements and balance sheets for the period from
1972/73 through 1975/76 are shown in Annexes 3.22 and 3.23. Annual profit
is expected to grow from Rs 51 million in 1971/72 to Rs 87 million in 1975/
76 with an average growth rate of 15% a year. However, as percentage of
total assets, profits are projected to decrease gradually from 1.6% in 1971/
72 to 1.3% in 1975/76 despite a relative decrease in administrative expenses.
This is explained by the expected change in IDBI's capital structure, i.e.
a decline in proportion of equity (from 18% of total assets in 1971/72 to 13%
in 1975/76) and an increase in relative importance of non-government re-
sources which are costlier. Yet, this profit level, which will allow a 4%
dividend and provision of sizeable reserves, will be satisfactory in view of
IDBI's character as a public development institution.
(Actual)
1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Percentage of Average
Assets (%)
Gross Spread                2.0         1.8       1.9        1.8       1.6
Administrative Expenses    0.4          0.4       0.4        0.4       0.3
Gross Profit                1.6         1.4       1.5        1.4        1.3
Net Profit as % of
Average Net Worth           9.3         8.4       9.6        9.7       9.7
Share Capital              12.7        13.3      14.0       16.1      17.4
A.27      Mainly because repayments of RBI loans start after 1976, IDBI's
debt service coverage during the projected period will pose no problem with
the ratio staying around 3:1.



APPENDIX
Page 8
A.28.     The annual growth of total assets during the first three years
wjill be very large, averaging 25% a year, but will slow down thereafter to
18% on average. Loans (including rediscount) will account for the bulk (about
90%) of total portfolio over the five-year period; equity investments will
sl:ay below 50% of IDBI's equity. IDBI's debt/equity ratio will be below 6.6
during the five-year period assuming guarantees to remain at the same level
as in 1971/72.
June 30               1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Debt/equity ratio   4.6        5.3      5.5      6.0     6.6
B. IDBI's Role in the Economy
IDBI as a Source of Finance
A.29      Among all lending institutions in India, IDBI is the largest single
source of finance for industry, accounting last year for -.-% of combined
disbursements of all term-lending institutions. Since inception, IDBI has
approved Rs 6,634 million and disbursed Rs 4,585 million. There have been
wLde fluctuations in the level of annual business due to the decline in the
iinvestment climate after the Indo-Pakistan conclict of 1965, the decline in
foreign aid and the devaluation of the Indian Rupee in 1966, and the indus-
trial recession in 1966 and 1967. However, the level of business has re-
bounded vigorously, growing more than 100% in 1970/71 and by another 25% in
1971/72.
A.30       IDBI's disbursements for direct assistance (other than for export),
refinance of industrial loans and rediscount of machinery bills aggregated
albout Rs 3,781 million as of June 1972; in 1971/72 IDBI financed 13% of total
fixed investment in the private corporate sector of industry as against 6% as
of June 1966. Disbursement in export assistance provided by IDBI aggregated
Rs 465 million and amounted to one-tenth of the total value of manufacturing
exports during the period since IDBI's inception.
A.31      In addition to its refinancing and rediscounting activities which
particularly benefit the small-scale sector, IDBI is an important source of
finance for term-financing institutions primarily through subscription to
shiare capital and bond issues. Such assistance has amounted to Rs 339 million
for IFCI, IRCI, ICICI and SFCs.
IDBI as a Mobilizer of Resources
A.32      Until recently, IDBI relied exclusively on the public sector, i.e.,
GOI and RBI, for its resources. Although its statutes allow IDBI to accept
deposits, it has so far not resorted to mobilization of funds from the market
in this form. However, in 1972 IDBI mobilized resources from the market
through two bond issues totalling Rs 270 million (para. A.09). IDBI intends
to borrow further from the market via Rs 450 million bond issues during the



APPENDIX
Page 9
remaining years of the Fourth Plan. IDBI has not yet availed itself of
foreign exchange resources.
A.33      The total cost of projects directly assisted by IDBI since incep-
tion amounted to Rs 11.9 billion as of June 30, 1971. IDBI contributed
Rs 2.1 billion, or 17%, of this amount in the form of direct assistance.
IDBI's catalytic role in organizing project finance - at a scale of five
times its own level - is significant.
Impact of IDBI's Operations
A.34      Pattern of Industrial Investment.  IDBI has assisted a number of
projects in the core sector, in conformity with the guidelines and priori-
ties of the Plans. 1/ Seventy-five percent of direct assistance approved up
to June 30, 1972 has been in the leading dynamic sectors like fertilizers and
chemicals, petro-chemicals, cement, steel and light and heavy engineering
(Annex 3.8).
A.35      IDBI-assisted companies provide for the total or the bulk of in-
stalled capacity in many important industrial fields. Almost all private
sector petro-chemical units have been financed by IDBI. IDBI-assisted com-
panies account for 80 - 100% of total Indian capacity in 10 chemical manu-
facturing fields. Other IDBI-financed industries providing substantial por-
tions of installed capacity are paper grade pulp (100%), graphite electrodes
(100%), zinc (53%) and copper (67%) (Annex 3.13).
A.36      Output and Value Added.  Total output created by companies directly
assisted by IDBI amounted to Rs 9.1 billion during 1971/72 or about 19% of
Indian output in mining and industry, with average output per company at
Rs 94 million. Net value added of these concerns was about 18% of capital
employed (Annex 3.14).
A.37      Introducing New Technologies.  In 27 of the 167 projects directly
assisted by IDBI, new technologies, many in the petro-chemical field, were
introduced for the first time to India. Other new processes were introduced
in the glass, aluminum, steel, electrical machinery, and food industries.
Three further projects with new technologies, one in milk processing, are
under IDBI consideration.
A.38      Hany of the new technologies were introduced with the help of Eor-
eign collaborators. Fifty of IDBI's projects involved foreign technical
1/  So far, eleven fertilizer projects (eight in the private, one in
the public and one in the cooperative sector), three alloy steel
projects, seven iron-and-steel projects, seven petro-chemical
projects, four tractor/power tiller projects, three electronics
projects, one project for manufacture of pesticides and a number
of machinery projects have been assisted directly by IDBI.



APPENDIX
Page 10
collaboration, in another 31 there was both technical and financial collabora-
t:ion. Twenty-one collaboration agreements were signed with American firms,
11 each with Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany, 10 with the U.K. and
8 with France.
A.39      IDBI has extended particular assistance to 14 projects promoted by
technician-entrepreneurs. Some of them were in unconventional fields like
automatic brick-making, prefabricated materials, and certain preventive
drugs, the manufacture of which has been taken up in the country for the
first time.
A.40      Exports and Balance of Payments.  Total exports by directly assis-
ted industrial concerns (other than export finance) during 1971/72 amounted
to Rs 250 million. Apart from this, IDBI's direct and indirect export as-
sistance in that year, amounting to Rs 150 million (US$19 million), financed
about 1/6 of the total value of India's export of engineering and capital
goods.
A.41      The net amount of foreign exchange earned/saved by directly as-
sisted companies (other than export finance) has figure{ between $117 mil-
'Lion and $160 million per year over the last three yea-.s. These are sub-
stantial amounts when compared with an estimated Indian trade deficit of
$383 million in 1970/71. Over the past eight years, these companies have
contributed an estimated $575 million in foreign exchange to the Indian
economy (Annex 3.14).
A.42      Employment.  Because of concentration of direct IDBI assistance
in modern and capital-intensive industries, the investment/employment ratio
of these projects is quite high. On the average Rs 49,000 ($6,100) of in-
vestment were incurred for every job created by IDBI's projects. Neverthe-
'Less, the direct creation of jobs in each of the last three years from IDBI-
financed projects was about 15,000 in 1969/70, and 8,000 in 1970/71 and
in 1971/72 (Annex 3.14). IDBI has estimated that directly-assisted projects
have created a total of 95,000 jobs, which represents about 2% of indus-
trial employment in factories employing over 25 workers in India. Further-
more, through its refinance and rediscounting activities, IDBI has indirectly
helped create a large number of jobs in small and medium-scale industries and
backward areas.
A.43      Assistance to Backward Areas.  Since 1969 backward areas in Indian
States and Union Territories have received special attention by planning
bodies. Out of 332 districts in 19 states, 199 have been designated as back-
ward areas. Including 8 Union Territories, poor districts account for 60%
of total area in India with 53% of its population. Incentive systems on the
national and State level have been devised and IDBI has contributed to the
formulation of a strategy to promote development in these areas.
A.44      Twenty-five percent of IDBI's total assistance approved up to mid-
1972 has been directed toward backward States and Union Territories. IDBI's



APPENDIX
Page 11
regional and branch offices and incentive systems now in operation are ex-
pected to help increase IDBI's contribution in this respect. Surveys of in-
dustrial possibilities in relatively backward States, which were recently
carried out under IDBI's initiative, have already started to bear fruit (see
para. A.14).
A.45      Client's Performance.  Important aspects of the economic and finan-
cial performance of IDBI's borrowers in operation are given in Annex 3.15.
On the average, IDBI's clients in 1972 earned a return of 17.0% on capital
invested.
A.46      Project Execution.  As of June 30, 1972, 74 out of 167 projects
which received direct IDBI assistance were under construction. Annex 3.16
illustrates how the 93 projects completed from 1965 to September 30, 1971,
fared as to costs and construction period. During the first four years
of IDBI operations, some projects were plagued with cost-overruns up to over
50% of the initial estimate, reflecting in part the impact of the recession
and in part poor planning. In the last three years, however, the cost per-
formance has substantially improved on an overall basis. On the other hand,
substantial delays in project completion still prevail due to design changes,
shortages in materials and late delivery of machinery, and in some cases poor
project management.
Relations with the Government
A.47      Ties with the Government have been very close ever since IDBI's
inception. The Government, as a direct source of funds (33% of IDBI's funds
since inception were provided by the Government), and as a setter of economic
policy, has always been important to IDBI. Yet, in its decision-making pro-
cess, IDBI has been able to remain largely free from political influences.
A.48      Personal contact between IDBI's management and Government repre-
sentatives are particularly important. The long-standing cconnections of
IDBI's Chairman with decision-makers in New Delhi and with public sector
institutions, as well as the more recently developed day-to-day contact be-
tween IDBI staff and Government staff at working levels have assured a gen-
erally congenial and effective working relationship. These contacts have
been valuable in expedicing Government licensing and subsequent project exe-
cution.
Relationship with Financial Institutions
A.49      IDBI, as the apex term-financing institution in India, plays a
pivotal role among term-lenders as a coordinator, leader, provider and
guarantor of funds, and as a pace-setter in interest policy.
A.50      IDBI chairs monthly meetings of the five national term-finance
institutions. It acts as a lender of the last resort and invites other



APPENDIX
Page 12
term-lending institutions to participate in very large and technically com-
plex projects which it has appraised. In joint direct assistance with
ICICI and IFCI involving about 120 companies and a total project cost of
Rs 12 billion, IDBI provided 56% of joint loans and 59% of joint underwrit-
ing assistance over the past eight years. At the State level, it promotes
coordination meetings and TCSCs. IDBI fulfills, in practice, the role of an
export bank in India by playing a leading role in industrial export finance,
-jointly with commercial banks. Also, it sets a maximum spread on its
rediscounting and a ceiling on the rates conmercial banks and SFCs may
charge on term loans to be refinanced by IDBI.
December 13, 1972



ANNEX 1 01
INDIA
Some Indicators of Recent Industrial Performance
1  Industrial Production Index (1960 = 100)                     % Increase/
Decrease over
Year                    Index                     Previous Year
1965                    153.8                        + 9.2
1966                    152.6                        - 0.8
1967                    151.4                        - o.8
1968                    161.1                        + 6.4
1969                    172.5                        + 7.1
1970                    180.8                        + 4.8
1971                    186.1                        + 2.9
1972                    200.5                        + 7*5
Source: Central Statistical Organization
20 Sectoral Variations in Output between 1969 and 1970, 1970 and 1971
Change in %
1969 - 70                   1970 - 71
Basic industries                 + 4.5                        + 6.0
Capital goods industries         + 5.0                        + 0,4
Intermediate goods industries    + 2,8                        + 1.1
Consumer goods industries        + 6.5                        + 3.9
a.  Non-durable goods          + 7.2                        + 2.6
b.  Durable goods              + 4.1                        + 709
*J Estimate
Source:  Monthly Bulletin of the Reserve Bank of India
3. Exports of Indian Engineering Goods (in Rs million)
1966/67 1967/68 1968/69 1969/70 1970/71
Non-ferrous metal products           13.3   28.7   101.2    68.9    52.1
Iron and steel products             101.8   144.1  227.8   296.0  296.6
Various metal products                8.6    13.5   31.6    28.0    27.3
Miscellaneous                        18.7    18.0   28.6   38.9   42,2
Non-electrical machinery             57.9   73,2   109.9   204.7  206.2
Electrical apparatus & appliances    52.0   55.4  141.7   202.2  212.9
Transport equipment                  51.7    66.3   180.1  196.0  300.5
Non-classified exports to Nepal       7.4   15.6   29.1   29.1   28.1
Total                311.4  414.8   850.0  1063.8  1165.9
Source: Engineering Export Promotion Council, Calcutta
December 18, 1972



INDIA
Operations of Industrial FinanoinR Institutions
Aril - Maroh
(Rs million)
Foreign Currenoy Loans                           Rupee Loans                   Underwriting & Direot Subscription                         Total
T968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72    1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72    1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72    1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72
ADprOvals
IDBI*          -          -         -          -         461       469        769      1,297         26        62         37       129         486        531       806       1 426
(84)     C78)      (162)       (239)                                                                      (162)      (23O
IFCI           20         18        57         30        176        154       228         268        31        14         38         23        227        186       323         321
ICICI         273        137       289        225         22        42         95        120         75        49         54         52        370        228       439         397
IRCI           -          -         -          -          -          -         -          66         -         -          -          -          -          -         -           66
SFCs **        -          -                              193        329       490        634          3         5          6          7        196        334       496         641
SInCes         -          -         -                     19        204       171        171         25        55         22         48         44        259       193         219
Total     293        155       346        255        871     1,198      1,753     2,556         160       185        157       259       1,323     1,538      2,257       3,070
Disbursements
BI*            -          -         -          -         274       433        511        774          9        18         47         14        282        451       558         788
60)     ( 57)      (137)     (174)                                                                       (137)      (174)
IFCI           24         19        26         34        153        145       139        161         17         10         9          8        195        175       174         203
icici          87        118       212        205         27         43        46         80         49         37        31         18        162        198       289         303
IRCI           -          -         -          -          -          -         -          11         -          -         -          -          -          -         -           11
SFCs, *        _          _                              179        220       331        390          5          3         4          6        184        223        335        396
8IDCs          -          -         -          -          20         77        95        112         15         40        16         12          35       116        111        124
Total     111        137       238        239        653        918     1,122      1,528         95        108       107         58        858      1,163     1,467       1,825
Note:  *  Comprising direct loans, refinance to banks and redisoounts; refinance to SFCs is exoluded and is indicated separately within braokets.
**  Including loans subsequently refinanced by IDBI
Abbreviations:                                                                                                                                                                               w
IDBI   -   Industrial Development Bank of India                                     SFC      -   State Finanoial Corporation
IFCI   -   Industrial Finance Corporation of India                                  SIDC    -   State Industrial Development Corporation
ICICI  -   Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited             Source:     IDIM  Annual Report 1969/70, 1970/7l and 1971/72
IRCI   -   Industrial Reconstruotion Corporation of India
Deoember 13, 1972



ANNEX 1.3
INDIA
Statewide Distribution of Registered Small Scale Industrial Units
1/
State/Union                      Number of SSIs               Population       Number of SSIs
Territory                          registered        2/      (in million)            per
as of December 31, 1970                           million population
Andhra Pradesh                       18,639                      43.4                429
Assam                                (  804)                     15.0                (54)
Bihar                                (2,381)                     56.3                (42)
Gujarat                              14,087                      26.7                528
Harayana                              1,530                      10.0                153
Jammu & Kashmir                       1,023                       4.6                222
Kerala                               (6,140)                     21.3               (288)
Madhya Pradesh                      (13,031)                     41.7               (312)
Tamil Nadu                          (15,982)                     41.1               (389)
Maharashtra                         (25,696)                     50.3               (511)
Mysore                              ( 7,849)                     29.3               (268)
Orissa                              ( 1,577)                     21.9                (72)
Punjab                               27,336                      13.5              2,024
Rajasthan                            (7,358)                     25.7               (286)
Uttar Pradesh                        22,740                      88.4                257
Delhi                                 8,021                       4.0              2,005
West Bengal                          15,567                      44.4               (351)
Goa                                  ( 485)                       0.9               (539)
Himachal Pradesh                     (   93)                      3.4               ( 27)
Manipur                              (    8)                      1.1               (  7)
Tripura                                 139                       1.6                 87
Pondicherry                          ( 250)                       0.5               (500)
Total                               190,727                     547.4                348
1/   Small-Scale Industrial Units
2/   Figures in parenthesis are those of earlier years
June 9, 1972






STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Establishment, Staff and Resources of SFCs_
Resources  (Rs. million)-
Name of the           Year of        No. of sUff         Share        Reserves         Bonds       RBI         State         Other         Deposits    Total               Debt
Corporation           establish-    members-             capital                                   borrow-   Govt.           borro3y                     resources         equity
ment                                                                         ings        borrow-       ings-l                                        ratio,=
ings
1.  Andhra Pradesh           1956             62               15.0          5.0             51.1        0.3          -           49.4            4.9           125.7           5.3   1
2.  Assam                    1954             30               10.0          4.1             23.2        4.0          -             1.5           6.0            48.8           2.5    1
3.  Behar                    1954             44               10.0          3.3             24.3        1.0          -            14.9            -              53.5          3.0   1
4.  Delhi                    1967             52                5.0          1.4             19.9        1.6        1,8            18.9            -              48.6          6.6   1
5.  Gujarat                  1960            258               20.0          3.4             65.7       13.7      11.2             55.1           7.7           176.8           6.6    1
6.  Haryana                  1967              75              10.0          4.4             35.2         -           -            31.9           0.1             81.6          4.5    1
7.  Himachal Pradesh         1967             12                6.1          0.9              2.8                     -             4.4            -              14.2          1.3   1
8.  Jamm  & Kashmir          1959             44                7.7          1.7             11.0         -         3.5             1.3            -              25.2          1.7   1
9.  Kerala                   1953             31               10.0          2.7             48.5        8.2          -            12.8           2.2            84.4           5.6   1
10.  Madhya Pradesh           1955              55              10.0          4.1             56.1         -           -            11.8           0.1             82.1          4.8   1
11.  Maharashtra              1962            600               21.9          7.3            176.1                     -            59.6          12.9           277.8           8.5    1
12.  Mysore                   1953              73              15.0          5.2             58.0         -         3.0            31.8           9.9            122.9          5.1   1
13.  Orissa                   1956              22              10.0          3.1             24.0        2.0          -             4.0             -             43.1          2.3   1
14.  Punjab                   1967              66               7.5          3.5             25.7        4.0          -            14.5           0.2             55.4          4.0   1
15.  Rajasthan                1955              57              10.0          3.2             28.5        4.3          -            16.9           0.1             63.0          3.8   1
16.  Uttar Pradesh            1954            167               18.5          3.9             32.0        2.7       10.4            48.6             -            116.0          4.2   1
17.  West Bengal              1954              47              15.0          5.2             40.4         -           -            18.6             -             79.2          2.9   1
18.  Tamilnadu                1949              94              29.9         11.3            102.7          -        2.9            48.9          87.0            282.7          5.9   1
231.6         73.7            825.2       41.8      32.8           444.9          131.1         1,781.0           4.8   1
1/  As of March 31, 1972.  (As of June 30, 1971 for TIIC.)
2/  Guarantee included in debt.
3/ Essentially all from IDBI.
4/ Including non-professional members.
December 14, 1972



STATE FINANCIAL COR.PORATIONS
Rer9ent Tr. nds in Cperptians-
(Rs milliea)
Leans Granted During            Loans Disbursed During       Loins Outstanding at End of
1968/  1969/  1970/  1971/   1968/   1969/  1970/  1971/   March  March  March  March
69      70      71      72       69       70      71      72     1969   1970   1971   1972
1. Andhra Pradesh            9.1   21.3    35.8   40.1    13.1    10.2    22.9    26,8          74.8   77.6   94.8 113.6
2.  Assam                    3.4     2.8     1.6     4.5      2.5      3.5     2.1     2.6      40.2  42.9   44.6  45.7
3.  Bihar                    3.1    5.5   10.9   28.1         4.8      4.2     7.5    13.9      32.0   33.6  40.6  50.2
4. Delhi                     7.8   12.5   22.7   24.8         4.1      8.0   15.1    17.2       14.2   20.3   32.9  47.5
5. Gujarat                  24.8   52.0    68.6  104.2       24.6    34.5    55.1    55.4       55.7   80.3  121.3  156.9
6. Harayana                 10.0   14.1   23.8   43.7        12.7    11.3    11.0    20.2       56.5  60.2   64.7   79.6
7. Himachal Pradesh          3.2     3.1     5.7     8.2       .7       .8     5.7     6.o       2.2    2.8    7,8  12.7
8. Jannu & Kashmir           6.0     6.0   15.3   10.3        6.0      7.4    12.8    10.4      12.5  15.2   21.7  25.3
9. Kerala                    9.1   10.7   20.1   40.2    10.1    Ui.6    13.2    16.9           37.9  48.9  60o1   76.4
.0. Madhya Pradesh           3.7     9.5   10.7    13.1       4.3      7.9     7.7     8.4      56.3  60.6  63.0  70.3
.1. My0sere                 17.3   16.3   33.7   50.5    13.9    13.6   19,,9   32.1            53.4  63.0  82.1  104.7
.2. Maharashtra             39.7   81.7  106.1  106.3    30.0    44.0   82.1           5 , 1    142 J. 166.5  224.2  261.6
.3. Orissa                   4.7     4.8     7.9     9.1      4.1      4.5     3,0     6.4      29.3  28.9   30.3   33.9
.4. Punjab                   7.3   11.4    22.7   37.5        8.1      7.6   10.2    17.7       31.6   35.9  42.0   53.5
.5. Rajasthan                6.0   13.5    23.3   28.2         6.2    10.0   11.9    16.0       38.8  45.7  51.3   61.6
.6. Uttar Pradesh           14.3   33.7   42.9  100.7          7.6    15.9   21.8    41.0       37.5   48.7   65.3  102.4
.7. West Bengal             12.2     9.2   14.7   10.4         7.6     6.5     6.4     6.7      66.3  67.7  71.0  71.5
.8. TIIC                    11.8    15.9   23.5   34.6    13.8    13.0   20.4   25.6    137.6  146.7  161.1  184.1
193.5  324.0  490.0  694.5   174.2  214.5   328.8   388.4    918.9-.045.5 1278*8 1551.5
_ve                                         _                        -      -       -      -
ovember 23, 1972



1        +    ?            X      t  5    0  r ,D; A                   w            5                                         2 :   0 [  ' [ '           r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNX 
-  -J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zQ
A,  .   , .:   ,   j  X   9 . 0   9 :: ~~~~~~~~~~L)           i5 s                      
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
fl;7*                                                      0     :.      0                       Iijjaw^       ;00;0  
,I-                                                                     0';    f  ft     '(    \: i        (    ;d V iSS-d  iLiS :ff  ffff ff
4,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
P  ~            ~            9Jtate;i/'                                                                                ,ut00t:






STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Size of SFC Projects Refinanced by IDBI
(Rs million)
1969-70                                     1970-71                                   1971-72
Size of Refinance Assistance          No. of           Amount of              No. of           Amount of               No. of           Amount of
(Gross Approvals)               Loans      %    Assistance      %       Loans      %     Assistance     %        Loans      %     Assistance     %
Less than Rs 0.2 million                846    88.7       48.2      46.6      1,186    82.8       76.8       41.8      1,504    83.9      118.9      45.2
Rs 0.2 million - Rs 0.5 mill.            63     6.6       18.8      18.1        182    12.7        55.6      30.3        194    10.8       68.8       26.1
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 1 million            35     3.7       22.3      21.5         54     3.8       36.3       19.7         77    4.3        52.8      20.1
Rs 1 million - Rs 1.5 million             4     0.4        4.9       4.7          6     o.4         7.2       3.9          4     0.3        3.4        1.3
Rs 1.5 million - Rs 2 million             6     o.6        9.4       9.1          5      0.3        7.9       4.3         12     0.7       19 2        7.3
Total                              9514  100.0      103.6     100.0      1,433   100.0      183.8    100.0        1,791   100.0      263.1     100.0
December 14, 1972






ANNEX 2.5
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATICNS
Industry-Wise Classification of Loans Outstanding
As at March 31, 1972
(Rs million)
Loans to Small-      Total Loans
Scale Enterprises       by SFCs
Type of Industry                                        Amount       %        Amount    %
1. Mining and quarrying                                   4.6       o.6        13.6   0.9
2. Food manufacturing industries except
beverage industries                               106.4      15.1     204.8   13.3
3.  Beverage industries                                   9.1       1.3        29.2   1.9
4. Tobacco manufactures                                   0.5       0.1         2.7   0.2
5. Manufacture of textiles                               41.4       5.9       271.2  17.6
6. Manufacture of footwear, other wearing
apparel and made-up textile goods                   4.5       o.6         5.8   0.4
7. Manufacture of wood and cork except
manufacture of furniture                            8.7       1.2        14.0  0.9
8.  Manufacture of furniture and fixtures                 4.8       0.7         7.9   0.5
9.  Manufacture of paper and paper products              10.8       1.5        37.6   2.4
10.  Printing, publishing and allied industries           25.0       3.5        40.7   2.6
11. Manufacture of leather and leather and fur
products except footwear and other wearing
apparel                                             0.6       0.1         1.7   0.1
12.  Manufacture of rubber products                       114.7      2.1        26.6   1.7
13.  Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products       62.1       8.8       128.8   8.3
14.  Manufacture of products of petroleum and coal         0.1         -         2.9   0.2
15. Manufacture of non-metallic mineral products
except products of petroleum and coal              31.0       4.4        61.6   4.0
16.  Basic metal industries                               27.3       3.9        91.8   5.9
17. Manufacture of metal products except machinery
and transport equipment                            50.3       7.1        88.0   5.7
18. Manufacture of machinery except electrical
machinery                                          52.0       7.4       108.1   7.0
19. Manufacture of electrical machinery, apparatus,
appliances and supplies                            23.0       3.3        64.5   4.2
20.  Manufacture of transport equipment                   15.0       2.1        40.3   2.6
21.  Electricity, gas and steam                            1.0       0.1         9.3   0.6
22. Motion picture production, distribution and
projection                                          0.4       0.1         2.3   0.1
23.  Hotel industry                                       21.3       3.0        39.4   2.6
24.  Transport                                           122.5      17.3       122.9   8.0
25.  Miscell neous manufacturing industries              68.9        9.8      123.2   8.0
26.  Others=                                                -          -      .4.7  0.3
706.0     100.0    1,543.6 100.0
1/   Represents flood loans given by Gujarat SFC.
November 12, 1972



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Loans Grated to Snail-Scale Ind.stries by Each 0FC
(RS aillion)
During 1969/70                                                               During 1970/71                                                       Duting 1971/72
Snall-               All             7. of         % of                    SD-alL               All             % of        7. of                   SmIal-              All         % of        . of
None of Ctooration                      scale                Units           Cal. 1       Col. 2                   scale                Units          Col. 1      Col. 2                    state             Units       Col. I    Cal. 2
No.    A,ount        No.    Amount          to           to                 No.,    A-ont        No.    Amount         to         to                  No.    Amount    No.   Aount    to             to
(1)     (2)          (3)      (4)         Col. 3       Col. 4               (1)      (2)        (3)      (4)        Cal. 3      Col. 4                (1)      (2)       (3)    (4)    Col. 3    Col. 4
1.   Andhra Pcadesh                     128      10.8         142     21.3         90.1         51.4                280      21.1        294      35.8        95.7        58.7                253      25.0      275    40.1    92.0         62.3
2.   Assam                               13       2.1          16      2.8         81.3          75.0                 6        .7         10       1.6        60.0        43.8                   9      1.1       16      4.5    56.2        33.3
3.   Bih-a                               22       4.3          25       5.5        88.0          78.2                34       8.3         39      10.9        87.2        75.7                  72     23.9       76    28.1    94.7         85.0
4.   Delhi                               70      12.2          71     12.5          99.9         97.6               124      21.4        131      22.7        94.5        94.6                 135     22.4      142    23.4    95.1         95.7
5,  GSuIjrat                            780      39.7         796     52.0         97.9          76.3             1,259      63.1      1,270      68.6        99.1        92.1                812      73.5      839   104.2    96.8         70.5
6.   Hsryana                             20       3.4          32     14.1          62.5         24.1                48      11.5         60      23.8        80.0        48.4                 370     34.7      384    36.9    96.4         94.0
7.   Himochal Prodesh                    30       3.0          30      3.1        100.0        100.0                102       5.5        125       5.7        81.6        97.2                104       7.1      105      8.2    99.0        86.6
8.   J ssno & Kashnir                   218       6.0         218      6.0        100.0         100.0               412      14.0        413      15.3        99.9        91.5                243      10.3      243    10.3   100.0        100.0
9.   Kerala                              20       5.2          28     10.7          71.4         48.5                44      11.3         66      20.1        66.6        56.2                 222      31.3      239   403.0    92.9        77.8
10.  Msdhya Pradesh                      39       6.3          44       9.5        88.6          66.3                30       3.6         40      10.7        75.0        33.5                  71       8.9       75    13.1    94.7        67.9
11. Moharashtca                         254      60.8         284     81.7         89.7          74.4             1,492    104.1       1,508    106.1         98.9        98.1              1,106      62.6   1,133    79.3    97.6          79.0
12.  Mysore                              50       9.2          62      16.3         80.6         56.4               142      23.1        151      33.7        94.4        68.5                 283      36.8      292    47.4    96.9        77.6
13.  Oci.ss                              33       4.5          34       4.8         99.9         93.8                 31      5.4         38       7.9        86.8        68.1                  60       7.4       62     9.1    96.8        81.3
14.  Poojab                              26       4.5          36      11.4         72.2         39.5                130     12.6        160      22.7        81.3        55.4                 398      31.6      414    35.0    96.1        90.3
15.  Rajasthan                           56       5.6          67      13.5         83.5         41.4               147      12.6        160      23.3        91.8        54.1                 226      21.5      232    26.4    97.4         81.4
16.  Utter Pradesh                       95      18.9         111      33.7         85.5         56.1                106     25.2        124      42.9        85.5        58.6                 252      70.6      279    88.6    90.3         79.7      o'
17,  West Bengal                         22       2.3          26       9.2         84.5         25.0                 77      6.9         81      14.7        95.1        46.6                  29       4.3       49      9.9    59.2       43.4
18.  T.I.I.C.                             8       2.8          33      15.9         24.2         17.6                 90       7.8       395      23.5        22.1        32.9                  91      23.3      106    28.7    85.8        81.2
Totel           1.884    201.6        2,055    324.0          91.3         62.2              4,556    358 2       5,065    490.0        89.9         73.1              4,736    496.7   4.961   633.5    95.5           78.4
Decem1                                            -             = e  '-                                                                                =
Decesober 14, 1972



STATE FINANCIA1 ODRPOEAIONS
toncessiomat Terms Offered by SFCs to Smell-Scale Industry
state Financial                       Margin                            Rate of interest                       Period of repayment             Other concessions to
Corporation                                                                                                                                    small-scale industires
;. Andhra Pradesh             Plant 20% & Machinery 25%           4% above Bank Rate,s&nimus 10%               10 to 12 years
Land 33 1/3% & Building 40%         (1W)
In case of ancilliary units:
Plant & Machinery 10%
Land & Building   15%
2. Assam                               50%                        815 (4%)          r                                  -do-
3. Bihar                               30%                        9% (1%) when refixance is received;                  -do-
otherwise 10% (1%)
Backward areas - 734 (1%)
L. Delhi                      25% normally,                       4% over Bank Rate,minimum                            -do-
50% for loans to                    10% P. a. (4)
hotels, cold storages,              When refinance loans are sanctioned
ice plants                          by IDBI?at concessional rate e
5% p.a., (13%)
5. GuJarat                    25%, or less in deserving           8;$,                                         Up to 12 years                   Acceptance of equitable
cases                               8%  in case refinance from IDBI                                              mortages/hypothecations in
is available                                                                 respect of assets offered
as security. No application
fee is charged to the small-
scale units
6. Baryana                    25%                                 Mostly 841                                           -do-
20% for technician-                 Backward areas - 6%.  In case of
entrepreneurs                       default penal rate of 4% in addition
7. Himachal Pradesh           25%                                .10%                                          10 years
8. Jarmu & Kasbmir            40% to 50%                          214 over Bank Rate with a minimum            Period of repayment
of 8&4; a penal rate of 1% in case           commences generally
of defaults.  Backward areas whem            after a grace period
refinance from IDBI is available -           of 1 to 3 years from
7%                                          the date of first
disbursal
9. Kerala                     25%                                 8u4 (C4) providod refinance is               Period of 15 years
available at 5% p.a.  Otherwise              A gestation period
9% p.a. (kA)                                 of 3 years for starting
repayment
10. Y5aharashtra               25%                                 10% (24%)                                    Repaysent period of
No margin required                                                               10 to 12 years.
for technician -                                                                 Gestation period 2 to
entrepreneurs                                                                    3 years
11. Madhya Pradesh             25%                                 9%    (4)                                                                     The Corporation does not
charge amy application fee
for loans up to Rs 0.2 millIon
12. Mysore                     25% relaxable to 15%                94% with 3%'rebate.  If refinance            Up to 12 years
in deserving cases.                 is sanctioned by DBI, the bene-
.10% for small-scale                 fit of reduction in the rate of
industries by techniciac -          interest may be passed on to the
entrepreneurs                       party
13. Orissa                     30%;                                 8y/. (F%)                                    Por acquisition of
25% deserving cases                                                              fixed assets - 10C
and transport loans;                                                             to 12 years. Working
15% technician-                                                                  capital loans for
entrepreneurs                                                                    providing margin -
5 years
I4. Punjab                     25%                                Minimum 10% (4%), or                           Not to exceed 10 years
3% above the IDBI refinance rate
from the date refinance is
available from IDBI
15. Rajasthan                  25%                                84% provided refinance is                      Gestation period of
available from IDBI                           2 years allowed
16. T I I C                    25%                               r8. (i%)                                        Up to 10 yearn                  Exempted from payment of
77% (5%) in back-ard ars                      Gestation period                staep duty for mortgage of
2 to 4 yearn                   their assets in favor of
Corporation. Investigation
charges, legal fees and
other operational costs are
coflected only at half toe
usual rate.
17. Utter Pradesh              25% upto and 33% ti                 914  (1%)                                     7 to 12 years
50% beyond Rs 350,000               8% (1%) in backward  r                       Backward areas
Backward districts -                areas                                        15 years.
15% to 35% depending                                                             Gestation period
upon the size of the loan                                                         of 1 to 4 years
18. West Bengal                30% technician-                     75% (3%)                                      Up to 12 years
entrepreneurs - 25%
Note: Percentage figures in parentheses are the interest rebate granted by SFCs to clients for prompt payment of interest and instalments.
January 1X, 1972



ANNEX 2.8
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Consolidated Income Statements for 18 SFCs, Years Ended MBrch 31, 1969-1972-'
(Rs million)
Year ended March 311.                    1969    12970      1971     192
:rnCONE
1.  Interest on Advances                 69.2    78.8       95.5   115.8
2.  Interest on Investments &
Deposits                               .5      4.5       4.4      4.3
3.  Guarantee Commission                  0.7      0.7       0.7      0.9
4. Underwriting Commission and
Brokerage                             0.2      0.2       0.2       -
5. Dividend on Shares                     0.9      4.1       3.6      3.4
6.  Investigation Fees                    0.1      0.1      0.1       1.0
7. Commitment Charges                     0.3      0.4      0.4       0.9
8. Other Income                           0.9      1.2       2.1      3.6
Gross Income                    76.9    89.9   107.0   129.9
EXTENDITURE
1.  Payment of Interest                  46.4    52.6       61.6    73.8
2.  Administrative Expenses               7.7    10.7    114.8    20.3
Gross Profit                    22.8    26.6    30.7        35.8
1. Reserve for Bad and Doubtful
Debt                                  1.5      2.2       2.7      2.1
Net Profit                      21.3     24.5    28.0    33.6
APPROPRIATION
Provision for Taxation                9.8    10.2       12.3     15.6
Dividend                              6.3       6.3      6.6      6.7
Repayment of Subvention               0.2      0.4       0.2       _
Reserves                              5.0       7.5      8.9     11.3
1/  Figures for TIIC refer to years ended June 30, 1968, 1969 and 1970,
respectively.
November 23, 1972



ANNEX 2.9
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Consolidated Balance Sheets for 18 SFCs, 1969-1972
(Rs million)
Last Friday                               March     March      March     March
of March                                  1969      1970       1971      1972
ASSETS
Cash in Hand and Balances with Banks    60.3      84.9       62.6      93.9
Investments
(i)  Uovernment Securities            23.7      23.0      21.6       16.9
(ii)  Shares of Industrial Concerns    96.1      95.0      96.5     100.1
(iii)  Debentures                        5.1       5.0       6.7        6.5
Loans and Advances                     917.0  1,040.4  1,278.2   1,543.6
Gxuarantees and Underwritings           72.7       72.1[     60.8      80.2
Other Assets                            78.1      89.2      104.6    103.6
1,253.O   1,h09.9  1,631.0   1P944.8
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital & Reserves
(i)  Paid-up Capital                 200.1    202.1    209.6    231.6
(ii)  Reserve Fund and Other Reserves  25.2      34.2      42.8       67.7
(iii) Provision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts                           5.8       8.0        9.7       7.6
Bonds & Debentures                    1486.2     599.7    720.6       812.9
Fixed Deposits                         132.5      133.4    133.0      132.7
Borrowings
(i)  from RBI                         24.1      25.7      23.9       46.8
(ii)  from IDBI                       198.1    223.8    315.6    423.1
(iii)  frorm State Governments          30.1      30.1      20.8       35.1
(iv)  Other Borrowings                  5.0       4.7       1.1       1.7
Other Liabilities                      145.9    148.2       153.9     185.6
l,253.0   1,409.9  1,631.0   1,9h4.8
November 23. 1972



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
3FCs' Arrears Position, March 31, 1970-72
(R8 million)
(4)
(2)                        (3)                     Amount involved                    (5)                            (6)
(1)                           Total Joans Outstanding             Overdues                in Suit-Filed Cases         Total of (3) and (4)        Percentage of (5) to (2)
Name of the Corporation                 1970     1971      1972      1970     1971      1972      1970     1971      1972      1970     1971      1972      1970     1971      1972
1.   Andhra Pradesh                    77.6     94.8    113.6        6.o      7.8       4.7       4.8      9.5       7.3      10.8     17.3       12.0     13.9     18.2      10.6
2.   Assam                             42.9    44.6       45.7       8.2     10.8      12.3      10.7     12.2      11.8      19.0     23.0       24.1     44.3    51.6      52.7
3.   Bihar                             33.6     40.6      50.2       4.5      6.1       5.7        7.2     7.9       6.6      11.7     14.0       12.3     34.8     34.5      24.5
4.   Delhi                             20.3     32.9      47.5       o.5      0.6       1.3       1.1      0.9       1.4       1.6      1.5        2.7      7.0      4.9       5.7
5.   Gujarat                           80.3    121.3     157.6       3.4      7.1      13.0       0.9      0.3       2.8       4.3      7.4       15.8      5.4      6.1      10.0
6.   Haryana                           60.2     64.7       79.9      2.4      3.8       6.9       6.4      6.5       6.0       8.8     10.3       12.9     14.6    15.9       16.2
7.   Himachal Pradesh                  2.8       7.8      12.7       0.2      0.8       1.5       0.1      0.1       1.1       0.3      0.9        2.6     10.7     11.5      20.5
8.   Jammu & Kashmir                  15.2      21.7      25.2       0.7      1.0       1.5       1.3      1.4       1.6       2.0      2.4        3.1     13.2     11.1      12.3
9.   Kerala                           48.9      60.1      76.5       3.8      4.4       5.5       4.4      4.4       6.4       8.2      8.8       11.9     16.8     14.6    15.6
10.   MadIWa Pradesh                   60.6      63.0       70.3      8.2      9.3      15.7       5.3      5.2       5.6      13.5     14.5       21.3     22.3     23.0      30.3
11.   Maharashtra                     166.5     224.2     261.6      11.4     16.6      31.0       3.2      9.8      15.0      14.6     26.4       46.o      8.8     11.8      17.6
12.  Mysore                            63.0      82.0     108.8       6.3      7.0       9.3       1.7      5.0        7.4      8.0     12.0       16.7     12.7     14.6      15.3
13.   Orissa                           28.9      30.3      33.9       5.0      7.0       7.6       7.6      7.9       8.0      12.6     14.9       15.6     43.6     49.2      46.o
14.  Punjab                            35.9      42.0      53.5       2.9      2.3       3.4       2.1      4.1       3.6       5.0      6.4        7.0     13.9     15.2      13.1
15.  Rajasthan                         45.7      47.8      55.7       2.2      2.8       1.6       3.1      3.3        2.9      5,3      6.1        4.5     11.6     12.8       8.1
16.   Uttar Pradesh                    48.7      65.3     102.4       3.0      5.9       6.9       1.5      0.8        o.8      4.5      6.7        7.7      9.2     10.3       7.5
17.  West Bengal                       67.7      71.0       71.5     10.3     14.0      19.8       1.9      6.2        4.7     12.2     20.2       24.5     18.0      28.5     34.3
18.  TIICi/                           141.0     161.1     177.0      33.2     33.3      48.5       o.2      0.2        0.4     33.4     33.5       48.9     23.7     20.8      27.6
TOTAL                         1,039.8   1,275.2   1,543.6    112.2    140.6      196.2      63.6     85.7      93.4    175.8    226.3       289.6     15.9     1707      18.7
1 Figures for TIIC refer to years ended June 30, 1969, 1970 respectively.
0
November 12, 1972



ANNEX 2.11
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Projections of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
for 18 SFCs, Years Ending March 31, 1973-75
(Rs million)
Total
1972           1973      1974         1975        1973 - 75
(Actuals)   (Estimated)
APPROVALS
Loans                          634          772         909        1,056        2,737
Equity                           7           23           28           29           80
Total               641          795          937        1,085        2,817
(For Imports)                 (146)        (180)       (212)        (245)        (637)
(For Domestic Procurement)  (495)          (615)       (725)        (840)      (2,180)
COMMITMENTS
loans                          539          656         772           897       2,325
Equity                           6           19           23           24           66
Total            _            ____675         795          921        2,391
(For Imports)                 (124)        (154)       (180)         (208)       (542)
(For Domestic Procurement)  (421)         (521)        (615)        (713)      (1,849)
DISBUIRSEMENTS
Loans                          390          555          672          801       2,028
Equity                           6           15           18           20           53
Total               396          570          6Y90         821 _2,081
(For Imports)                 ( 79)       (114)         (138)       (164)         (416)
(For Domestic Procurement)  (317)         (456)        (552)        (657)      (1,665)
Source: IDBI
December 15, 1972



ANNEX 2.12
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Projected Cash Flow Statements for 18 SFCs
Years Ending March 31, 1973-75
(Rs million)
1972       1973       1974        1975
(Actual)
SO'JRCES
Cash generation                       18.0       22         29          38
Increase in share capital             18.6       28         40          40
State Government borrowings            6.9       10         10          10
Reserve Bank of India borrowings    127.1       125        125         125
IDBI borrowings                      175.6      225        419         500
Other borrowings (net)              - 14.0       -           -          -
Bond issues                          171.0      173        189         205
Loan collection                      140.7      146        162         200
Sales of investments                   8.5        4          3           3
Other sources                        15.7        11         26          16
Total                     668.1       752      1,003      1,153
USES
Disbursements of loans               389.1      555        672         801
(of which for inports under
IDA credit)                            (138)      (164)
Disbursements of investments           5.6       15         18          20
Repayments of loans
State Government                    5.7        5          5           5
RBI                               100-5      125        125         125
IDBI                               62.7       75        109         1
Repayment of bonds                    71.3        6         26          42
Dividend paymnts                       6.6        7           7         10
Total                     641.5       788        962       1,153
Cash surplus (shortage)               26.6     ( 36)        41          -
Opening cash balance *                84.2      111         75         116
Closing cash balance *               110.8       75        116         116
I Including Government Securities
Source:  IDBI
December 14, 1972



ANNEX 2.13
STATE FINANCIAL CORPO.ATIONS
ProJected Income Statement for 18 SFC. (1973-1975)
(Re million)
Years Ending March 31                 1972        1973      1974        1975
(Actuals)
INCOmE
1.   Interest on advances                     115.8       153.1     193.3      248.6
2.   Interest on investments and depoits        4.3         4.3       4.4        4.5
3.  Guarantee comission                         0.9         0.9       0.9        0.9
4.  Underwriting aczmrnissionand brokerage       -          0.5       0.5        0.5
5.  Dividend on shaes                           3.14        14.1      4.5        4.5
6.  Investigation fees                          1.0         1.0       1.0        1.0
7.  Commitment charges                          0.9         1.0       1.0        1.0
8.   Other income                               3.6         5         6.9        6.9
Gross Income                       129.9       170.5     212.5      267.9
REPEDITURZ
1.  Payment of interest                        73.8        97.5    121.0       148.3
2.  Administrative expsenSe                    20.3        25.6      31.9       40.2
Gross Profit                        35.8        47.4      59.6       79.4
Reserve for Bad and Doubtful Debt          2.1         3.8       4.3        5.9
Net Profit                                33.6        43.6      55.3       73.5
APPROPRIATION
Provision for Taxation                    15.6        21.3      26.8       35.7
Dividend                                   6.7         7.0       7.7       10.4
Repayment of Subvention                     -           -         -         -
Reserves                                  11.3        15.3      20.8       27.4
Source: IDBI
December 15, 1972



ADNE 2.14
STATE FINANCIAL CORPCIATI(NS
ProJected Balace Shoets for 18 SFCs (1973-1975)
(Rs Million)
Years Ending March 31
1972        1973        19714      1975
(Actuals)
l~STS
Cash in hand and balances with banks           93.9         50          61         87
Investmetts
i)  Government Securities                  16.9         25          55         29
ii)  In Shares of Industrial Concerns      100.1        110         125        142
iii)  Debenture                               6.5          7           7          7
Loans and Advances                          1,543.6      1,950       2,1460     3,061
Gwarantees and Underwriting                    80.2         85          85         85
Other Assets                                  103.6        914          94         94
1,944.8      2.321       2.887      3X50
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital and Reserves
i) Paid-up coLital                        231.6        260         300        340
ii)  Reserves  -                            75.3         94         120        153
Bonds and Debentures                         812.9        980       1,143      1,328
Fixed Depsits                                132.7        133         133        133
Borrowings
i)  Froa RBI                              46.8         47          47         47
ii)  From IDBI                            423.1        580         890      1,240
iii)  From State Governmeats                35.1         40          45         50
iv)  Other Borrowings                       1.7          2           2          2
Other Liabilities                            185.6        185         207        212
1,944.8      2,321       2,_887     3.505
1/ Including Reserve for Bad and Doubtful Debts.
So"ree: IDBI
fleceber 15, 1972



ANNEX 3.1
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT BANK OF INDIA
Board of Directors and Executive Committee as of October 31, 1972
Name                                            Position
*1. Mr. S. Jagannathan. (Chairman)               Governor, Reserve Bank of India
*2. Mr. V. V. Chari (Vice 'Chairman)             Deputy Jovernor,
Reserve Bank of India
3. Mr. P. N. Damry                              -do-
' . Dr. R. K. Hazari                            -do-
5. Mr. S. S. Shiralkar                          -do-
*6.  Mr. 3. L. Kirloskar                         Industrialist (leading member
of the Kirloskar Group)
7. Mr. Bhaskar Mitter                           Industrialist (Director of ICICI,
Union Carbide & Andrew Yule & Co.)
8. Mr. V. N. Puri                               Agriculturist
*9.  Mr. J. Ramdave Row                          Industrialist
10.  Dr. P.B. Gajendragadkar                     Chairman, Law Commission, Former
Justice, Supreme Court and Former
'lice-Chancellor, University of
Bombay
*11.  Dr. A. M. Khusro                            Professor, Institute of Economic
Growth, New Delhi
*12.  Dr. Bhabatosh Datta                         Emeritus Professor of Economics,
Presidency College, Calcutta
*13.  Mr. C. P. Srivastava                        Chairman and Managing Director,
Shipping Corporation of India
14.  Shri M. P. Chitale                          Chartered Accountant
15.  Dr. K. Kanungo                              Jean and Joint Director, Indian
Agricultural Research Institute,
New Delhi
16.  Dr. V. Kurien                               General Manager, Kaira District
Cooperative Milk ProducersI Union Ltd.,
Anand



ANNEX 3.1
Page 2
Name                                        Position
17.  Shri G. Parthasarathi                      Vice-Chancellor, Jawaharlal Nehru
University
18.  Shri N. C. Sen Gupta                       Secretary to the Government of
India, Ministry of Finance, Depart-
ment of Banking
Also member of the Executive Committee.
November 12, 1972



THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
(As of June 30 1972)
Board of Directors
--- -c----e-C-rc----                                                                                        1970  1971  1972
Protf-i-co         141       200      29
E- .iim           12       19        1
= w mIIIIIIIIm                                               ,9~~~~~~~hgiOo  27       31       31
I                                                        Coerm slOe.                                                                                                                     Analret        78       109      131~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Iyl 78 19  3
Otes    24        41       40
No-rlsjnl242       331      303
(S. JaBaflflafltanI                                            Total           ____~~~~~78-  531   612
I(Vy. Charl)
I                                                                                                                ___________
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- M I                                                                       lg=1
Dr Dan Mgr (F  )                                                                                                                                                                                                                _
(A  N  Iit)                  DVD G.n Mgr.                                                                                        Oy   K                                                                       . D..  GanG gr
Dy)M N  Kalt)-h*                                                                                                                    (Y.                                                                           (N.K'S..0
|               ~~~~Economic and                            _AdmirIstration                                           Retiree a                 Bils Qtedlcountins           Oparasions and LOOoI               Follow-up
BIb, Wlg                   Proac Daparemat              lnna Daparement               Eeperr Daparnernt                 Dpartm -nt                            Depdreme                       Deparement .. 
Bombay WieB  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ DpD..1-                                                                                                                                                              DP,-1D.paitmen
M.ngagr                  Maneagrs in charge M-agers                                       M.nagter                     Soctetary                               Managar                       Mana.gr                       Manager                       Ma-ae-re
(NOG  San)                  of appraisal ream             JND  nhi)                      (DP Gupa)                  (S. K h          y)                      (D.C Wadhwa)                    (SRH  Kha-)                  (T.N  Gidwani)                (SD. Khosla)
(S.M. Patio)                 (VS. Ragho-ar)                                            M-g  (A-..)                                                                                                                         (O.P BarrV)
18. Prasdl                                                                            S    .  h.,y.. 
SM. Chitnis)
I                                 I~~~~~~~~~M.R.B.  -)
(NV. Sitaram)
I~~~~~~~~~~( 18. alandrn
3                                 IS~~~~~~.V. I .
P2                           P 31             N.8          P 1B            N.13          P:.               N.S       P.26              N40                    P.23             N 28         P.12             N.17  ;      P1B               N 8        P-22              N t13
IE _-- -- -- -- - - - --------- - --- -- -- - -- -- --- -
Calcu-ta Regional                                                                           Ma. R   .  I                                                                                  D lhi Regional |
DOtic-                                                                                     Dfi                                                                                         fftr-
Managar                                                                                                                                                                               MaM ger 
IrCR. San Gupta)                                                                               Dl.D OI.J. Lao))
P8              N27                                                                        P 20            N29|                                                                       P 18            N30|
Bhopa1                        Gauhati                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K.ep h  rbneswar  Bangatera  Cochit  Hydaaad  Chandigorh  K
Branch                         Branch                -rdhch               8rancb                                         9ranch       |          ranch               Branch                                           Branch    |ranch                           Bratch
Office                         Office                          Office    D  e                                            Dffi a                 Defice               Office                                            Office              Office                Office
P 1                            P:l                P      1                Pl1                                             Pf1                    Pf                  Pf                                               PFr                  Pt                    P1
(Opned in
JuIy 1972)
Aoia Prtolcm  Oapsrtmanr                                                                                 NOTE    F=Proteeionea
N   Non-proofsnional
Dote                                                                                                                    Vacant
1/ Lntft the positin in Setiteber 1972 and wos noccaadad by Mr. Ventat Rae                                                                    Word Bank - 7190






ANNEX 3.3
Page 1
THE IMDUSTRIAlL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Resourre-Ce as of September 30, 1972
(Rs million)
Amount
1.   Equity                                                  613.8
Paid-in capital                                      400.0  (See Note 1)
Reserves                                             213.8
(General Fund)                                    (173.7)
(Development AaJ tu. cc 7nd)                       (4o.1)
2.   Borrowings from Government of India                  1 665.1  (See Note 2)
(General Fund)                                  (1,2.)
(Development Assistance Fund)                     (2h4.2)
3.   Borrowings from Reserve Bank of India                 1,323.1  (See Note 3)
4.   Bonds and Debentures                                    286.5
Total                                            3,888.5  (See Note 4)
Note 1: Increase of Paid-in Capital
July 1964         100.0 (Initial)
June 1967         200.0
January 1971      300.0
January 1972      400.0
Note 2: Details of Borrowings from Government of India /
Fiscal                              Loan Amount                        Rate of
year     Purpose   Approved   Disbursed   Repaid   Outstanding   Interest  Amortization
1964/65     GF        100 0       100.0          _        100.0    Interest Free   1979-1993
GF       360.0 .'    360.0          -        360.0           4ff        1997
90.0       90.0        22.6        67.            5%         1970-1979
GF       (89.9)      (89.9)      (22.6)      (67.3)
DAF         (0.1)      (0.1)        (-)        (0.1)
1965/66               379.0       379.0        60.o       318.6                     1971-1980
GF      (256.6)    (256.6)       (40.9)    (215.7)
DAF      (122.4)    (122.L)       (19.5)    (102.9)
1966/67               346.0       3L6.0        26.9       319.1           51-6       1972-1981
GF       (220.0)    (220.0)      (17.1)    (202.9)
(126.0)    (126.0)       (9.8)    (116.2)
1967/68               250.0       250.0          -        250.0           519        1973-1982
GF       (225.0)    (225.0)        (-)      (225.0)
DAF        (25.0)     (25.0)        (-)       (25.0)             3
1968/69     GF        250.0       250.0          -        250.0           561        197h-1983
Total          1,775.o    1,775.0       109.9    1,665.1
1/   Government loans are not subordinated in ranking to other debts or capital.
2/   Approved for RCI and transferred to IDBI.
3/   With rebate of ¼t for timely payment of interest and/or principal.



ANNEX 3.3
Page 2
Note 3: Details of Borrowings from Reserve Benk of India
Date of                                                                     Loan Amount                       Rate of 1
Contract           Purpose                             Sanctioned   Disbursed    Repaid    Outstanding    Interest
12/30/196i      For subscribing to bonds                  20.0         10.0           -          10.0             5%
of SFCs and other eligible
financial institutions                                  9.2           -           9.2            5 3/4,
3/30/1965      For subscribing to shares
of SFCs etc.                               2.5          2.5           -           2.5
11/17/1965      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        20.0         12.7            -         12.7             5 3/4%
1/11/1965      Shares of SFCs etc.                        2.5          2.5           -           2.5
6/8/1966       -do-                                       1.5          1.5           -           1.5             5 %
9/27/1966      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        25.0         10.8           -          10.8             5 3/Ab
7/25/1966      Shares of SFCs etc.                        2.5          2.5           -           2.5             3,'
IV7/1967       -do-                                       0.6          0.6           -           0.6             5
11/11/1967      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        15.0          6.3           -           6.3             6,t
10/27/1967      Shares of SFCs etc.                       10.0          2.2           -           2.2             5%
9/23/1968      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        35.0          1.8           -           1.8             6%
-do-            Shares of SFCs etc.                       10.0           -             -            -              -
2/6/1969       Concessional borrowing                    25.0           -            -             -             41-Z
9/17/1969      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        30.0           -            -             -             6%
-do-            Shares of SFCs etc.                       10.0           -             -            -             5%
5/13/1970      Cleneral business of IDBI                100.0        100.0           -         100.0          Bank Rate
6/17/1970     General business of IDBI                  100.0        100.0           -         100.0         Bank Rate
9/17/1970      Bonds of ICICI3/                          30.0         18.0           -          18.0             64f
5/13/1971      Shares of IRCI                            15.0         13.8            -         13.8             4/
9/17/1970      Shares of SFCs etc.                       10.0)         6.0           -           6.o 30
6/25/1971      -do-                                       3.03
9/17/1970     General business of IDBI                  200.0)       250.0            -        250.0         Bank Rate
6/25/1971      -do-                                      50.03
7/23/1971      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        25.0         (8-93/                     8 93/
(18.0-                     18.0--,
6/14/1972      -do-                                      10.0          1.0                        1.0            6%
7/23/1971      Shares of SFCs etc.                       27.5         (7.0                        7.0            3½5
(L.1                       4.1            49
-do-            Shares of IRCI                            27.5         13.8            _         13.8             4/
-do-            General business of IDBI                 220.0)       220.0            -        220.0          Bank Rate
6/14/1972      -do-                                     100.0)       100.0            _        100.0          Bank Rate
12/31/1971      Temporary borrowings against
machinery bills                          115.0           -            -             -              -
7/25/1972      Bonds of SFCs etc.                        32.0           -            -             -              _
-do-            Shares of SFCs etc.                       14.2           7.5           -           7.5            3½%
-do-            Shares of IRCI                            13.8            -            _            -              _
-do-            General business of IDBI                 30.0                                       -              -
Sub-total                                       930.6            _         930.6
Undisbursed effective approvals-/                                          392.5
Total                                                                    1.323.1



ANNEX 3.3
Page 3
Note 4: Details of Bond Issues
Rate of
Subscribed      Paid-in      Repaid     Outstanding      Interest     Amortization
First Series (March 1972)   126.5          126 5                      126.5            5.75, ~        198L
Second Series (August 1972) 160.0         10.0                        160.0           5.75%          198L
Total                  286.5          2°6.5           -          286.5
1/   Rate as shown or the Bank rate whichever is lower.  The current Bank Rate is 6g p.a. effective
from January 9, 1971.
2/   Amortization period varies with the purpose of borrowing, as follows:
a)   Subscription to bonds of SFCs                      WIithin 121 years (lump sum)
b)   Subscription to shares of SFCs, etc. and IRCI       Within 20 years (lump sum)
c)   Subscription to debentures of ICICI                 10 equal annual installments commencing
from the 6th year.
d)   General business of IDBI                         . Within 15 years (lump sum)
3/  Limits allowed for the subscription to SFC bonds etc. were utilized for purchase of special
debentures of ICICI.
4/   No interest will be charged by RBI till such time as IRCI is in a position to declare any dividendj
thereafter interest will be charged at the dividend rate or the Bank Rate, whichever is lower.
5/  Undisbursed approvals by RBI lapse at the end of each fiscal year (June 30) in which apprvals are made.
November 12, 1972






ANNEX 3.4
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Maturities of IDBI Assistance
(As_of_p4il 301 1972)          (in years)
Statutory        Policy           Usually
limit            guideline
1. Direct Loans to Industrial
Concerns (other than for
exports) 2/
i)  Normal term                          None             Up to 18         10 - 15
ii)  To units in the
specified backward
areas                                                 Up to 20         10 - 20
2.  Refinance of Industrial Loans /
i) For scheduled and
State co-operative
banks                                3 - 10           3 - 10            3 - 7
ii)  For SFCs, etc.                       3 - 25           3 - 20            3 - 103/
3. Rediscountino  Machinery Bills              None        6 mos.  - 7      6 mo-s * - 5
It. Export Credit
i)  Refinance of export credit       6 mos.  _ 10    6 mos. -  10    6 mos. -  7
ii)  Direct loans for exports              None        6 mos.  - 5/   6 mos.  -12
1/  Including grace period of up to three years for normal case, and up to five years
for units in the specified backward areas.
2/  Including grace period of up to two to three years.
3/ Longer repayment period considered for units in the specified backward areas
if the financing institution also extends such a concession.
4/  The maximum period of deferred credit is seven years in deserving cases and up
to 10 years in exceptionally deserving cases.
5/  The maximum period depends on the merits of each case.
*    Months
May 31, 1972






ANNEx 3 .5
Page   1
THE INUJSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Structure of Interest Rates and Other Charges
(As of Ap4ril 3 1972)_ _
(percent per annum)        Ceiling Rate
for Primary
A.  Rates of Interest                           IDBI Rate            Lender/Discounter
1. Direct Loans to Industrial
Concerns (other than for
exports)
i)  Normal rate                          8.5
ii) To units in the specified
backward areas                       7                        -
2. Refinance of Industrial Loans
i)  Normal rate 1/                       7                      10.5
6.75                  10.25
ii)  Concessi6nal rate                    6                       8.75
iii) Special rate for small-
scale industrial units
covered under the Credit
Guarantee Scheme                     5                       8.5
iv) Special rate for units
in the specified back-
ward areas                           3.5                     7.0
3. Export Credit
i) Refinance of export
credit                               4.5                    6.0
ii)  Direct loans for exports 2/4.5 or more
4. Rediscounting of Machinery
Bills
Unexpired usuance of bills/
promissory notes
i)  6 - 36 months                        6                       7
ii)  Over 36 months - 60 months           5.5                     6.5
iii)  Over 60 months - 84 months            5                      6.0



ANNNEI 3.5
Page 2
-2-
B, Charg3s
1.  Cowimpent Charge
i)  Direct loans 10 industrial concerns:
a)  Normal case            1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion
of the loan from the date of effectiveness
of the loan agreement.
(In case the period of withdrawals extends
over 18 months, 0.5% p.a. for the period
beyond 12 months.)
b)  To units in the        Same'as above.  However, waiver of the
specified backward    commitment charge considered on merits
areas                  of each case.
ii) Refinance of ind strial loans:
a)  Normal case            1% p.a. on the apount of refinance
remaining undrawn after 3 months in
cases wherethe loans have been dis-
bursed by the institutions and after
6 months in other cases.
b)  To units in the        Same as abqve.  However, waiver of
specified backward    the commitment charge considered if
areas                  the financial institutions themselves
decide to waive this charge to the
induatrial concern.
2. Penalty C argp
i)  EDJrqct loans to            0.5% p.a. on overdue principal.
industrial concerns
ii)  Guarantee to                0.25% p.a.-
ijzdustrial concqers
3.  2!awanteo Cowmiss8i               1% p.a.
4.  Underwriting Co2ii46ion
i)  Shares                      2.5% p.a. on the face value.
ii)  Debbnt,ures                 1.5% p.a. on the face value.



ANNEX 3.5
Page 3
1/   The differential in the normal rate is based on the rate charged by
the primary lender on the refinanced loan. The primary lender charges
one of the two ceiling rates on term loans, depending on its relation
with the client.
2/   The interest rate on participation export loans is so fixed that the
average rate to the exporter works out to 5.5%. The rate of interest
on IDBI's portion of credit depends on the extent of its participation
in the credit.
~/   Leviable in case of default in payment of guarantee commission on the
stipulated date.
(Note)   IDBI does not charge any technical assistance or project appraisal
fee. It collects actual expenses incurred for legal scrutiny and
documentation. Where a project is referred to an ad hoc Committee
of Advisors, the actual expenses incurred by way of traveling
expenses of experts and their sitting fee (Rs 100 per person) etc.
are recovered from the company. In the case of projects sponsored
by technician-entrepreneurs, these expenses are usually borne by
IDBI.
May 31, 1972






THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOQPMENT BANK OF 1nDIA
Summary of Operations
(R. million)
Direot Assistance to Industrial Concerns (ether than for exports)                                                                                   Export Assistance                                  Subscriptions to Shares
rear Boded                                    Tovestisent io                                              Rofina-ne                                                                                                                 and Bondo of
June 30                   Loans            shares and bonds        Garantees       Sub-total      of IndRetria1 T              Redi-counting              Loans               Refinance          Guarantees    Sub-total   Financial Institutions  Total
(1)                      (2)                     (3)                  (4)            (5)                  (6)                       (7)                   (8)                   (9)                (10)           (11)                (12)              (13)
1/
Approval7
1968                      (13)  145.9           (9)   11.8          (-)      _        157.7           (1l2,     93.8             (54)        124.3        (-)        -         (3)        3.2      (-)      _          3.2         (7)    19.4            398.4
1969                      (16)  133.0          (10)   22.8          (7)    0.3        155.0           (313)    137.0           (100)         254.9        (2)     65.8       (13)        72.8      (1)    b.0        144.2         (3)    88.0            636.9
1970                      (13)   52.8          (15)   61.3          (1)    0.8        134.9          (838)    138.0             (129)       240.7        (14)    112.2        (5)        12.7      (-)      -        124.9         (1)      5.0           623.5
1971                      (26)  406.7          (12)   39.7          (2)   26.1        472.5        (1,406)    245.5             (152)        284.8      (16)    113.5        (18)       137.1      (2)   10.9        261.5         (6)    86.o          1,350.3
1972                      (35)  513.5          (217  145.7          (-)      -        659.2        (2,003)    305.6            (204)        452.9        (12)    192.8       (11)        32.8      (-)    1.1        226.7         (4)    37.2          1,681.5
1965-72                  (144)1,942.2         (121)  412.7         (13)  268.5      2,623.4        (5,088)  1,517.7             (277)     1,351.9       (NO)    483.9        (56)       272.5      (3)   18.0        778.4        (20)   366.1          6,633.9
Commitment-/
1968                      (12)  136.9           (5)    6.1          (3)  59.1         197.4                    107.7                        106.4        (-)         -        (3)         2.9      (-)      -          2,9                 39.4           453.6
1969                      (47' 169.4           (10)   25.5          (1)    0.1        195.0                    116.2                        1j2.7         (-)        -       (10)        25.3      (-)      -         25.3                 44.8           514.0
1970                      (16)  107.2          (19)   53.1          (1)    °1-        161.1                    124.8                        205.9         (8)    101,6       (18)        29.5      (1)    3.3        1334.41                 581
1971                       17    68.2           (12)   48.7                          1112-illO                 212.3                        24.3.1       (14.)    89.3       (29)       120.1.     (2)   12,3        222.7                 579 ,26s
1972                      (18)  298.7          (11)   68 9          (-j      -        363.6                    239.9                        805.3       (13)    102.9        (20)        85.1      (-)    3.5        149.3                 57.9         1,216.5
1965-72                  (106)1,324.9         (104)  321.2          (9)  791.2      1,83'                    1,421.1                      1,175.5       (35)    293.8        (96)       236.0      (3)   17.1        546.9                338.9         5,319.7
Disbursanemt
1968                            179.7                  11.3                  -        130.8                    107.3                        106.1.-                                       2.9               -          2.9                 39.1           4487.1
1969                            153.1                  15.7                            168.8                  I16.2                        132.7                    -                   24.9               -         24.9                344.98          4487.4
1970                            108.8                  22.-                           131.3                    124.8                        205.9                 29.2                   27.0               _         56.2                  5.0           523.1
1971                             48.8                  37.2                  -         86. 0                   212.3                        243.4                119.7                   99.0               -        218.7                 37.8           798.1
1972                             95.9                  18.4                  -        118.3                    239.9                        383.0                101.9                   48.0               -        149.9                 57.9           944.9
1965-72                         992.4                 211.4                  -      1,206.8                  1,421.1                      1,153.1                250.7                  214.3               -        465.o                338.9         4,584.9
Repasment
1968                             11.6                    -3                            i1.6                    l4q37                          39.5                   -                    4.2                          4 8.2                 -            247.2
1969                             13.73                                                  13.7                   3143.7                         54.8                                        3.5                          3.5                   -215.7
1970  88.7           0.3                 -          1.8.0                  '801                           79.8                   -                    18.1              -         18.i                    -            279.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.  -  4.  1.1    7. 
1971                             49.7.                  v.3                            4 6.7                   49o.o                         129.8                  9.3                  14.7               -24.0                            -            370.0
1971  69.4           c.3                            (,9.7                    51). Q                       M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18.9  21.2              58.8               -76.0                           8.0           918.9
1972                             89.9                    -                   -         85.9                    163.7                           59361021188.C                                                                                            1,89
1965-72                         225.2                   0.° 5                         22597                  1,027.5                         1.95.9               30.6                  101.2               -        131.8                  8-o         1,888.9
Outstanding
1968                            574.1                 120.7                  -        698.8                    644.1                         167.5                   -                     2.1              -2.1                          i91.8         1,66o.3
1969                            713.5                 106.                            849.9                    616.4                         267.7                   -                   23.6               -         23.6                196.6         1,954.2
1970                            777.7                 134.8                  -        912.5                    601.4.                        828.6                29.2                   36.1.4                       69.6                201.5         2,209.6
1971                            757.1                 136.8                  _        925.5                    662.8                         588.0                139.5                 120.7               -        260.2                225.5         2,662.0
1972                            767.1                 185.6                  -         952.7                   738.9                         855.9                220.2                  113.8              -        338.2                330.-9         3,212.8
1965-72                         767.1                 185.6                            952.7                   738.9                         855.9                220.2                  113.8              -        3348.                330.9         3,212.4
1/   Net of redcctions/cancellat11 ons  and take-ups by other financial institutisns.
2/   Investment in shares and bonds (COsisn 3) relates to the paid voloc.
):  Number of applications spproved/committed.  However, 'Ili-n 7 a3 d Colns 12 relate, respoetively, to number of manufarturers and nsmber of financial  nstihnt,oc-.
November 12, 1972






INDUSTRIAL DEVEIOPENT BANK OF INDIA
Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) by Size
1964/65 - 1971/72
(Rs million)
1964/65 to 1967/68               !968/69                      1969/70                        1970/71                          1971/72             1964/65 to 1971/72
No.     Amo,,nt     %        No.     Amo,n+      %        No.      Amount,    %         No.      Amount      %        No.      Amount      %       No.      Amount      %
(A)   Direct Loans (other than for exports)
Below Rs 0.5 million                               -          -        -        -                                                          1          0.2                                                        0.2
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 1 million                     5          3.2      0.3       .           -       -        1          0.7     1.3        2          1.4      0.3       1          0.7     0.2       9          6.o      0.3
Rs 1.0  million - Rs 2.5 million                  6          9.8      1.2      4          6.4      4,8       5          8.0    15.2        4          4.7      1.2       7         10.8     2.1      26         39-7      2.0
Rs 2.5 million - Rs 5.0 million                   8         29.0      3.5      5         18.7    14.0        4        13.6    25.8         4         11.6      2.9      11        42.8      8.3      32        115.7      6.0
Rs s.0 million - Rs 10.0 million                 14         96.3    11.5        2        12.5      9.4       2        13.6    25.8         6         33.0      8.1       8         50.0     9.7      32        205,4    10.6
Rs 10.0 million - Rs 20.0 million                11        157.3    18.8        3        35.0    26.3        1        16.8    31.9         3         35.8      8.8       3         39.2      7.6     21        284.1    14.6
Rs 20.0 million - Rs 50.0 million                 5        155.5    18.6        2        60.5    45.5        -           -       -         3        105.0    25.8        2         47.5     9.3      12        368.5    19.0
Rs 50.0 million and above                         5        385.0    46.2        _         _        _        _           _        -         3        2)5.0    52.9        3        322.5    62.8      11        922.5    47.5
Total                                       54        836.2   100.0      16        133.0   100.0      13         52.8   100.0        26        406.7   100.0      35        513.5   loo.o    144       1,942,2   100.0
(B)   Underwriting and direct subscription
to shares and debentur es of indus trial
concerns
Below Rs 0.5 million                             10          3.2      2.2       2         1.4      6.1       1          0.3     0.5        -          0.7      1.8       2          0.8      0.5     15          6.4      1.5
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 1 million                    21         13.8      9.6       4         2.7    11.8        4          3.4     5.5        4          2.9      7.3       2          1.1      0.8     35         23.9      5.8
Rs 1.0 million - Rs 2.5 million                  19         27.4    19.1        1         1.2      5.3       6         12.7    20.7        4          6.o    15.1        6          7.9    564       36         55.2    13.6
Rs 2.5 million - Rs 5.0 million                    8        27.5    19.2        1          2.5    11.0       1          4.2     6.9        2          8.9    22.i        5         14.8    10.2      17         57.9    14.0
Rs 5.0 million - Rs 10.0 million                  3         17.6    12.3        1         56o    21.9        2         11.5    18.8        2         21.2    53.4        2         10.0      6.9     10         65.3    15.8
Rs 10.0 million - Rs 20.0 million                  -           -       -        I        10.0    43.9        -           -        -                     -       -        1         17.5    12.0       2         27.5      6.7
Rs 20.0 million and above                         2         53.8    37.6       _                             1         29.2    47.6         -           -       -        3         93.6    64.2       6        176.6    42.8
Total                                       63        143.3   100.0      i0         72.8   100.0      15         61.3   100.0        12         39.7   100.0      21        145.6   loo.o    121          412.7   100.0
(C)   Guarantees for loans and deferred
payments (other than for exports)
Below Rs o.5 million                               -          _        _        1         0.1   100.0        -           -        -        -           -        -        -           -        -       1          0.1       -
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 1.0 million                    -           -       -        -           -        -       1          0.8   100.0         -                                                 -       1           0.8     0.3
Rs l.O million - Rs 2.5 million                                             -                                -
Rs 2.5 million - Rs 5.0 million                    1         4.0      1.7       -                                                                                                                                   0-  -  -  -  1  6.  1.5
Rs 5. omillion - Rs 0l.O million                   -           -       -        -           -        -       -           -        -         1          9.0    34.5       -           -        -        1          9.0     3.3
Rs  10.0 million - Rs 20.0 million                 -           -       -        -           -        -       -           -        -         1        17.1    65.5        -                             1        17.1      6.6
Rs 20.0 million - Rs 50.0 million                  7       182.0    75.4                        -        -         -          -             -           -       -        -           -        -        7       182.0    67.8
Rs 90.0 million and above                          1        55.5    22.9        -           -        -       -           -        -         -           -       -        -           -        -        1        55.5    20.7
Total                                        9        241.5   10o.0       1          0.1   100.0        1          0.8   100.0        2         26.1   loo.o        -          _                13        268.5   lo.0
November 12, 1972



1964/65 to 1967/68                  1968/69                        1969/ (0                     1970/71                          1971/72                 1964/65 to 1971/72
No.     Amount      %         No.      Amou.t      %        No.      A-ount      %         N i.    Amount       %        No.      Anount      5         No.     Amount      %
(D)  loans for exports
Below Rm 0.5 million                                             -        -        -           -         -        -                    -                    2       0.1      0.1           -        -        -           2       0.1     (0.02)
Rs 0-5 million -  Rs 2.5 million                                 -         -       -           -         -        -          4        5.8      5.1          7        9.1     8.0           5       6.8      3.5         16      21.7       4.5
Rs 2.5 million -lRe 5.0 million                                  -         -       -           1        4.4     6.7          5       17.8    15.9           3        9,6     8.5           1       3.1      i.6         10      34.9       7.2
Ro 5.0 million - Rs 10.0 million                                 -         -       -           -         -        -           1       5.8      5.1          -         -        -           1       6.3      3.3          2      12.1       2.5
Rs 10.0 million - Rs 20.0 million                                -         -       -           -         -        -          3       37.9    33.9           1       10.6      9.3          2      40.4    21.0           6      88.9     18.4
Rs 20.0 million   R Rs 50.0 million                              -         -       -           -         -        -          1       44.9    40.0           3       84.1    74.1           1      25.6    13.3           5    154.6      31.9
Rs 50.0 million mad above                                        -         -       -           1       61.0    93.3           -        -        -           -         -        -           2     11o.6    57.3           3    171.6      35.5
Total                                                                                     2      65.4   100.0          14     112.2   100.0          16      113.5   100.0          12      192.8   100.0          44    4B3.9    100.0
(E) Refinanoe of export credit
eo      n05                                                      2       o.6      3.5          1        0.5     0. 7          -        -        -           2        0 .9    0. 7          -         -       -           5       2.0       0.7
.5 miR.loon- j  2.5 million                                 8      11.0    64.3           3        4.9     6.7          3        5.2    40.9           4        5.1     3.7           9      12.8    39.3          27      39.0      14.3
Rs 2.5 million - RP  5.0 million                                 _ -               -           4       12.5    17.0           2       7.5    59.1           4       14.3    10.4           1        3.4    10.1         11      37.5      13.8
Rs 5.0 million - Rs 10.0 million                                 1       5.5    32.2                -        -          -          -        -               3       20.8    15.2           13/     5.6    17.1           5      31.9      11.7
Rs 10.0 million - Rs 20.0 million                                -         -       -           2       25.1    34.4           -        -        -           3       37.8    27.5           -      11.0    33.5           5      73,9      27.1
R. 20.0 million and above                                        -        -        -           1       30.0    41.1 i                  -                    2       58.3    412.5          -         -       -           3      88.3     32.4
Total                                                     11       17.1   170.0          11      73.0   100.0           5       12.7   100.0          18     137.2   100.0          11       32.8  100.0           56    272.5    100.0
(F) G-arantee (Exp,orts)
Below Rn 5.0 million                                             -  l-                                   -        -           -        -        -           1        3.4    31.2           -        1.1  100.0           1       4.5      25.0
Rs 5.0 million snd above                                         -         -       -           1        6.0   100.0           -        -        -           1        7.5    68.8           -         -      -             2     13.5      75.0
Total                                                      -         -        -           1       6.0   100.0           -         -        -           2      10.9   100.0            -       1.1  100.0            3      18.0    100.0
(G) Refinance of industrial loansm
Below Rs 0.5 million                                           125      38.2      4.9        234,      35.0    23.0        922       68.4   4,2.3       1,451      143.5    54.8      2,062      202.7   63.0        4,794    487.8       29.1
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 1.0 million                                202     154.9    19.9          62       41.2    27.1         40       26.1    16.2          70       47.4    18.1         102       68.0   21.1         476    337.6       20.2
Rs 1.0 million -    2sO.5 million                              169     263.8    34.0          34       55.5    36.5          21      34.0    21.0          20       29.7    11.3          28       44.5   13,8          272    427.5      25.5
Rs 2.5 million - Ps 5.0 million                                 54     191.2    24.6           6       20.4    13.4           8      27.2    16.8          10       33.1    12.7           2        6.8    2,1           80    278.7      16.7
Rs 5.0 million - Rs 10.0 million                                14      83.4    10.8           -         -        _           1       6.0      3.7          1        8.0      3.1          -         -       _           16     97.4       5.8
Rs 10.0 Lillion and above                                        4      45.2      5.8          -         -        -           -        -        -           -         -        -           -         -      -             4     45,2       2.7
Total                                                    568      776.7   100.0         336     152.1   100.0         992      161.7   100.0      1,552      261.7   100.0       2,194      322.0  100.0        5,642  1,674.2    100.0
(H)  Rediscounting of bills-
Below Rs 0.5 million                                                    59.2    27.1                   35.5    22.9                  55.7    23.2                   60.2    21.2                   68.2   15.1                 278.8      20.6
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 2.5 million                                        124.4    56.9                   78.3    50.7                 108.2    44.9                  136.5    47.9                  164.0   36.2                 611.6      45.3
Re 2.5 million and  bmve                                                35.0    16.0                   40.9    26.4                   76.8    31.9                  88.1    30.9                  220.7   48.7                 461.5      34.1
Total                                                             218,6   100.0                 154.9   0O0.0                  240.7   102.3                 284.8   100.0                  452.9  100.0               1.351,9    100.0
1/   Figures relate to aprovals (gross sanotisom).
2/   Amounts relate to face value of bills.
3/   Inrease of earlier approval.
Nvoveber 12, 1972



AiuEx 3.8
THE DIDUSTRIAL JEJ1ELOP}ENT BANK 0? LiD3IA
Industry-Wise Classification of Direct Assistance
(Rs million)
Cumulative (July 1964 - June 1972)
Approvals      Disbursements
Amount    ,'    Amount
1.   Textiles (including Jute)                       82.8      3.2     64.9      5.4
?.   Paper and Paper Products                       266.6    10.2      66.6      5.5
3.   C]erica,ls (other than petro-chemicals
ancl fertilizers)                           278.0    10.6    134.0    11.1
1I.   Petro-chemicals                               296.8    11.3    179.0    14.8
5.   Yertilizers                                    880.7    33.6    378.8    31.L!
i.  Cement                                          158.9      6.1    114l.      9.5
7.  3Basic Metal Industries:
i)  Iron & Steel                              252.2     9.6      72.3     6.0
ii)  lion-ferrous Metal Industries             119.1     4.5      44.3     3.7
3.   Hanuf .cture of Ma chinery except
electricl niachinery                         97.14    3.7      75.3      6.2
9.   IcManufacture of ElectricE.1 Machinery          55.7      2.1     37.8      3.1
10.   Otlher Industries                              135.2      5.1     39.4      3.3
Tot.l                                  2L623.14   100.0  1,206.8   100.0
Aote:  Biirect assistance comprises loams and guarantees (ot-her than for exports)
cand underwriting of and direct subscription to shares and debentures.
diovei-iber ?, 1972






THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Riegion-Wise/State-Wise Distribution of Operations (Approval.s)
July 1964 - June 1972
(R. million)
Assistance Sanctioned (Effective)
Leans ether      Loses      UDder-rit-       Refinan,c       Refinancc       Rediscount       Guarantee      Total       Percent-
Region/State                       than for          for        ing and          of indus-       of export                                                  age
export           export    direct sub-    trial              credits
scriptions      loans
I. Eastern Region
Assem                                               120.0              -         20.0              2.4              -                 _                         142.4        2.3
Nihar                                               117.3              -         28.5             31.3              -               58.7             -          235.8        3.8
Manipur                                               -                -            -              0.2                       -                       -            0.2          -
Meghalaya                                                                           -               -
Nagaland                                              -        -                    -               -               - 
Orissa                                              109.5              -          4.4              9.4              -                3.8             -          127.2        2.0
Tripura                                                              -                      -               -                -               -                     -           -
West Bengal                                         151.4           186.7        12.2            113.9             12.5            187.8             -          664.4       10.6
Union territories of Andaman and                      -                -           -                -               -
Nicobar Islands                                     -                -           -                -               -                 -
Total                              498.2           186.7         65.1           157.2             12.5            250.3             -        1,170.0        18.7
II.  Western Region
Gujarat                                               374.3             3.9         52.6           184.6              -               89.4            60.2         764.9       12.2
Madhya Pradesh                                          18.2           84.7          8.8             44.7            28.6             56.6               -         241.7        3.9
Maharashtra                                            266.9          168.5         72.8           381.7            169.1            618.6           151.0       1,828.6       29.2
UOioe territories of Goa, Daman and Di.
and Dadra and Nagar Haveli                           12.5              -         29.2             11.0               -               4.8              -          57.5        0.9
Total                              671.9           257.1        163.4           622.0            197.7            769.4           211.2      2,892.7        46.2
III. Northern Region-
Harayana                                                18.3             -           8.1            66.8                -             15.0             0.8         109.0        1.7
Himachal Pradesh                                          -      -                    -              9.2                                 -              -            9.2        0.1
Jamn. 6 Kashnir                                                          -            -               3.4                                -                           3.4        0.1
Puniab                                                    -             -             -             30.4                -              0.4                          30.8        0.5
Rajasthan                                               45.6            6.2          4.9             31.7             25.1              1.1           27.8         142.5        2.3
Uttar Pradesh                                          106.6             -          23.9             75.8               -              12.2           29.5         248.0        4.0
Union territories of Chandigarh & Delhi                  7.1             -           3.5            25.4             22.2              6.5               -          64.7        1.0
Total                              177.6             6.2         40.4           242.7             47.3              75.2           58.1         607.5        9.7
IV.  Southern Region'
Andhra Pradesh                                         130.5              -         15.1            101.2              1.5             23.1              -         271.4        4.3
Kerala                                                  48.7              -          9.4             59.7               -               5.3              -         123.1        2.0
Mysore                                                 142.6              -         52.7             99.0               -              77.1              -         371.4        5.9
Tamil Nadu                                            265-2             34.0        66.6            230.2             13.5           191.4            17.2         818.1       13.0
Union territories of Pondicherry & and
Laccadive, Minicoy & Amindire Islands                  7.5              -           -               5.7               -                -              -           13.2        0.2
Total                             594.5            34.0        143.8           495.8             15.0            299.9            17.2      1,597.2        25.4
GRAND TOTAL  (I+I+III+IIV)    1,942.2             483.9        412.7         1,517.7            272.5          1,351.9           286.5      6,267.4       100.0
NOTF  (1)  Classification based on location of projects assisted in each State.  In a few cases, assistance was graeted for expansion of existing anits/setting up
of news units in more than one state; such assistance has been included in the State to which most of the assistance has gone.   In the case of rediscounts
the classification is based on the location of machinery manufascturer or seller.
(2) Figures are exclusive of subscriptions te shares and bonds of financial institutions.
December 21, 1972



THE INDUSTRIAL DEVI.LOPMFNT BANK OF INDIA
Bre own of Operations (Approvals) by Maturity
(Rs million)
1964,~'S to 1967/68                  1968/69                        1969/70                        1970/71                      1971/72                    1964/65 to 1971/72
No.    Amount        7        No.    Amount         7.       No.    Amount         D,       No.    AmoLnt        7.       No.      Amo-nt       ,'        No.    Amountr         .
A.   Direct Loans (other than for
exports)
Not exceeding 3 years                         3      30.5        3.6        -         -           -        -                                                                                            3       30.5        1.6
Above 3 years - 5 years                      4       56.0        6.7        -         -           -        -         -          -         -         -          -        -          -          -         4       56,0        2.9
Above 5 years - 7 years                      6       37.5       4.5         3       19.5       14.7        1        1.0       1.9         1        0.9       0.2        2         6.6       1.3        13       65 5        3.4
Above 7 years - 9 years                     15      443.8       53.1        -         -           -        3        8.6      16.3         3       11.5       2.8        2         9.6       1.9        23      473 5       24.4
Above 9 years - 12 years                    19      180.4      21.6        10       99.0        74.4       3       15.5      29.4         7       56.5      13.9        3       108.5      21.1        42      459.9       23.6
Above 12 years                                5      82.6        9.9        -         -           -        2       16.8      31.8         2       13.2       3.3        4        17.6       3.4        13      130.2        6.7
Repayment schedule not finalized             2         5.3       0.6        3       14.5        10.9       4       10.9      20.6        13      324.6      79.8       24       371.2      72.3        46      726.5       37.4
Total                        54      836.2    100.0         16      133.0       100.0      13       52.8    100.0         26      406.7    100.0       35        513.5    100.0        144   1,942.2       100.0
B.   Loans for Export
Not exceeding 5 years                        -          -         -         -         -           -        1        1.7       1.5         2       26.5      23.4        2        11.9       6.2         5       40.1        8.3
Above 5 years - 7 years                       -         -         -         1        4.4         6.7       5       58.2      51.0         3        1.7       1.5        1         1.3       0.7        10       65.6       13.6
Above 7 years - 9 years                       -         -         -         -         -           -        -         -          -         1       32.5      28.6        2         8.7       4.5         3       41.2        8.5
Above 9 years - 12 years                     _                    -         1       61,1        93.3       8       52.2      46.6        10       52.8      46.5       7        170.9      88.6        26      337.0       69.6
Total                        _        _         _           2       65.5      100.0       14      112.1    100.0        16       113.5    100.0       12        192.8    100.0        44       483,9      100.q
C.   Refinance of Export Credit
Not exceeding 5 years                       11        17.1    100.0         5       10.8        14.8       3        7.5      59.0        10       84.9      61.8        4        17.2      52.5        33      137.5       50.4
Above 5 years - 7 years                       -         -         -         4       28.6        39.3       -         -          -         4       17.7      12.9        2         6.8      20.7        10       53.1        19.5
Above 7 years - 10 years                      -        _          -         2       33.4        45.9       2        5.2      41.0         4       34.6      25.3        5         8.8      26.8        13       82.0       30.1
Total                       11       17.1    100.0         11       72.8      100.0        5       12.7    100.0        18      137.2    100.0        11         32.8    100.0         56      272.6      100.0
D.   Guarantees for Exports
Not exceeding 5 years                         -         -         -         1        6.0      100.0        -         -          -         1        3.4      31.2        -_/       1.1    100.0          2       10.5       58.3
Above S years - 6 years                                           -         -                                                             1        7.5      68.8       _           _          -         1        7.5       41.7
Total                        _        _           -         1        6.0      100.0       _         _         _           2       10.9    100.0        _          1.1     100.0         3       18.0      100.0
E.   Refinance of Industrial Loans 1/
Not exceeding S years                       28        55.0       7.1        5        4.2         2.8    463        22.8       14.1      618       33.5      12.8    978          53.7      16.7   2,092        169.2        10.1
Above 5 years - 7 years                    172      275.4       35.5       66       26.5         17.4   234        22.8       14.1      167       30.6      11.7    126          25.0        7.9      765      380.3        22.7
Above 7 years - 10 years                   234      304.0       39.1      137       59.3        39.0    151        69.1      42.7       372      101.6      38.8    423          91.3      28,3    1,317       625,3       37.4
Above 10 years                             134      142.3       18.3      128       62.1        40.8     144       47.0       29.1      395       96.0      36,7    667         152,0      47.2   1,468        499.4        29.8
Total                     568      776.7    100.0        336      152.1      100.0    992        161.7    lO0.0   1,552        261.7      100.0  2,194        322.0      100.0       _     1             100.0
F.   Rediscountinp: of B1ls 2/
Not exceeding 3 years                       11        17.1    100.0         5       10.8        14.8       3        7.5       59.0       10       84.9      61.8        4        17.2      52.5        33      137.5        50.4
Above 3 years - 5 years                       -         -         -         4       28.6        39.3       -          -         -         4       17.7      12.9        2         6.8      20.7        10       53.1        19.5
Above 5 years - 7 years                       -                   -         2       33.4        45.9       2        5.2      41.0        _        34.6      25.3        5         8.8      26,8        13       92.0        30.1
Total                     11       17.1    100.0         11       72.8      100.0        5       12.7    100.0        18      137.2      100.0      11         32.8    100.0         56      272.6      100.0
1/   Figures relate to gross sanctions.
2/   Amounts relate to face value of bills.
3/   Increase of earlier approval.
December 14, 1972



THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOFIMENT BANK OF INDIA
Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) by Nature of Project
(Rs million)
1964/65 to 1967/68              1968/69                   1969/70                   1970/71                   1971/72             1964/65 to 1971172
No.   Amount    %        No.   Amount    %          No.   Amount    %        No.   Amount    7          No.   Amount    7         No.   Amount    iy
(A) Direct loans (other than
for exgorts)
New                                    27     551.6   66.0        3     28.8    21.7        6     47.0    89.0        7     256.9   63.2       15    317.8    61.9       58   1,202.1   61.9
Expansion                              21     281.1   33.6       4      66.7    50.1        1      1.5      2.8       8     139.0   34.2        8    179.7    35.0       42     668.0   34.4
Working Capital                         1       3.5    0.4        2     37.5    28.2        1      4.3      8.2       5      10.8    2.6        1     16.0      3.1      10       72.1    3.7
Total                 49      836.2  100.0       9    133.0   100.0        8      52.8   100.0      20      406.7  100.0      24    513.5   100.0    110   1,942.2  100.0
(B) Underwriting and direct subscrip-
tion to shares & debentures of
industrial concerns
New                                   45      118.4   82.6        5      6.2    27.2       11     57.8    94.3        8      31.3   78.8       16    104.2    71.6       85    317.9    77.0
Expansion                              14      24.9   17.4        3     16.6    72.8        1      1.8      2.9       -         -      -        4      38.9    26.7      22      82.2    19.9
Working Capital                         -        -      -         -      -        -         1      1.7      2.8       4        8.4   21.2       1       2.5      1.7      6      12.6      3.1
Total                 59      143.3  100.0       8      22.8   100.0      13      61.3   100.0      12       39.7  100.0       21    145.7   100.0    113    412.7   100.0
(C) Guarantees for Loans and
Deferred Payments
New                                     5     161.1   66.7        -      -        -         1      0.8   100.0        1      9.0    34.5        -       -        -        7    170.9    63.6
Expansion                               2      80.4   33.3        1      0.1   100.0        -      -        -         1     17.1    65.5        -       -        -        4      97.6    36.4
Working Capital                         -      -        -         -      -        -         -      -        -         -       -       _         _       _                 _       _        _
Total                  7      241.5  100.0       1       0.1   100.0       1       0.8   100.0       2      26.1   100.0        -      -        -        11    268.5   110.0
Total Direct Assistance
(Total of A + B + C) 1/
New                                    55     831.1   68.1        6     35.0    22.5       11    105.6    91.9       10    297.2    62.9       17    422.0    64.0       99  1,690.9    64.5
Expansion                              31     386.4   31.6        7     83.4    53.5        2      3.3      2.9       8    156.1    33.0        8    218.6    33.2       56    847.8    32.3
Working Capital                         1        3.5    0.3       2     37.5    24.0        1       6.0     5.2       7      19.2      4.1      1      18.5      2.8      12     84.7      3.2
Total                 87   1,221.0  100.0       15    155.9   100.0       14    114.9   100.0       25    472.5   100.0        26    659.1   100.0    167  2,623.4   100.0
(D)  Refinance of Industrial Loans
New                                  239      264.9   34.1    176       54.1    35.6    848       75.7    46.8  1,209    141.6    54.1  1,813    239.4    74.3  4,285    775.7    46.3
Expansion                            329.    511.8   65.9    160        98.0    o4.4    144       86.0    53.2    343    120.1    45.9    381          82.6    25.7  1,357    898.5    53.7 7
Total                568      776.7  100.0    336    152.1   100.0    992    161.7   100.0  1,552    261.7   100.0  2,194    322.0   100.0  5,642  1,674.2   100.0
1/   Number of projects may not add up as more than one type of assistance and/or additional assistance has been extended for implementing the project.
December 14, 1972



ZT.BE INDUSTRLIL DTJEIDPMENT BAAK OF INDIA
Refinance 3ranted to Smwll-Scele Units and Road Transport Operators
(Rs million)
Total Since
1968/69             1969/70             1970/71              1971/72              1964/65
Size of Unit                    No.     Amount      No .     Amount      No.     Amount      No.      Amount      Nio.    Amount
Small-scale units               187     28.2        2)44      38.7       719     118.6    1,106       176.8    2,354   371.8
(186)   (28.2)      (233)    (36.6)    (691)   (100.8)  (1,024)   (164.2)  (2,202) (345.0)
Small road transport
operators                      19      0.9        673       33.2       704      34.5       967       48.8    2,363   117.4
(19)    (0.9)      (670)    (33 1)    (678)    (33.?)    (671)    (34.0)  (2,038) (101.3)
Others                          130    123.0         75       89.8        99     108.6       121       96.3       925 1,18)4.9
(107)   (62.9)       (52)    (34.3)      (66)    (43.9)       (96)    (6).9)    (9)4) (373.8)
iNote:    The SFCs share is indicated in brackets.
December 14, 1972



AlU4.EX  3.13
TME INDUSTPL'L DEEJFLOPIM T aAN K 0F 1ID1.
Capacity Installed with Direct Assistance
As of June 30, 1972
, of IDBI -
Totae  Indian Capacity       IDBI-Created Capacity               Created
Installed                     Installed              Capacity to
No.      Capacity             No.       Capacity             Total Capacity
Coment                                      50        19.4 mill. tons    8             5.1 mill, tons            26
Paper
Peper end paper products                  59       882,000 tons         7          136,500 tons               15
Paper grade pulp                           1        30,000 tons         1           30,000 tons              100
Bay"n grsde pulp                           2        77,000 tons         1           22,000 tons               28
Fertilizers
Nitrogenous                               37        1b.38 rill. tons-  7             1.39 Mill. tons           32
Phosphatic                                21         1.49 mill: tons!/ 6             0.35 mill.  tons         23
Heavy, basic and other chemicals
& chemical products
Sulphuric acid                            67     1,968,600 tons         3          223,000 tons                11
Caustic soda                              28       372,000 tons         3          114,160 tons               31
PVC resins                                 L,       44,800 tens         2           26,000 tons               58
Polyethylene H.D.                          1        20,000 tons         1           20,000 tons              100
Polyethelene L.D.                          2        19,100 tons         1           10,210 tons               54
Butadiene                                  1         7,200 tons         1            7,200 tons              100
Ethylene oxide                             1        12,000 tons         1           12,000 tons               100
Ethylene glycol                            1        10,000 tons         1           10,000 tons              100
Polyethylene glycol                        1         1,000 tons         1            1,000 tons              100
Diethylene glycol                          1            600 tons        1              600 tons               100
Ethylene                                   2         75,000 tons        1           60,000 tons                80
Acetone                                    4         18,500 tons        2           17,000 tons                92
Diacetone alcohol                          2         1I,800 tons        1            4,800 tons              100
Dioctyl phthalates                         8        35,200 tons         1            3,000 tons                 9
Phenol                                     3        17,9140 tons        1           10,000 tons               79
Phthalic anbydride                         3        12,300 tons         1            6,000 tons               L49
Pesticides                                35         40 ,000 tons       1            2,600 tons                 7
Polyster fibre                             1         6,100 tons         1            6,100 tons              100
Nylon filament and nylon cord              7        11,396 tons         3            4,200 tons                37
Basic metal industries
Alloy & special steels                   n..       200,000 tons         1           61i,000 tons               28
Iron & steel rolls                         3        314,000 tons        2           12,800 tons                38
Non-ferrous metals
Aluminum                                   14       170,000 tons         3          60,000 tons                35
Copper                                     1         9,600 tons         1            6,500 tons                67
Zinc                                       2         38,000 tons        1           20,000 tons                53
Electrical equipment, apparatus, etc.
Graphite electrodes & antodes              1          5,L00 tons         1           5,400 tons               100
Fluorescent tubes                          8          9.2 mill. tubes   2            2.5 mill. tubes           27
Paper insulated telephone cables           2         4,200 km.          1            1,000 km.                214
Dry battery cells                          7            539 mill.       1               60 mill.               11
Agricultural machinery & implements
Agricultural tractors                     6         32,200              2           12,000                     37
Automobile tires                            8           4.5 mill.          2           1.1 mill.                 24
1/   Approved capacity.
November 23, 1972



AN,UEX,  3.14
THE IJDUSTId iL J' IELOPIJPVAENT BALIK 02 II;NI
Economic Indicators of IDBI-,Assisted Establishments
(Direct Assistance Other than for Exports)
'et
foreign
No. of                                     Net          exchange
companies                    lalue of      added/3/      saved!
-fear end-ed             assistei,   Persons2/          output      capita         earned
June 30                by EDBI-/   employed-    (Rs million)        (1t0     (Rs -million)
1966                        3           1,373           38.20         7.5            8.81
1967                       l6          11,)485         423.54       17.4            68.80
1968                                   2  28,336    l,L!7.75          9.9         1,69.25
1969                       66          5L,457        1,924.21        J.8           734.914
1970                       80          69,297        6,562.79        17.3          936.77
1971                       88          87,136        7,590.71        17.5       1,103.06
19724/                     97          95,000        9,110.00        18.0       1,275.00
Cumulative Total           97          95,000       30,097.20                   L,596.69
1/   Companies which have gone into full or partial production.
2/  NVJ,ew employment created by new as well as existing concerns.
3/   "Capital" includes paid-up share capital, reserves and borrowings
(including short-term).
4/   Estimated.
November 23, 1972



ANNEX 3.15
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Performance of IDBI's Borrowers in Operation as of June 30, 1972
(Direct loans other than for exports)
No. of    % of IDBI            Arrears       Return on         Profit on        Value added/        Exports       Investment/
Industry                      clients   loans out-           as 7. of      investment        net worth           capital          as 7'. of      employmsent
1971   1972 standing           total loans   1970  1971         1970   1971       1970   1971         sales            ratio
in sector                                                             1971          (Rs '000)
T    Manufacture of chemicals
and chemical products
(a)  Fertilizers                     6       6      34.1                 -         14.2  16.4    17.9   18.1          25.7   28.8                           321
(b) Synthetic resins &
plastics                     3       4       9.1                3.9          9.3  11.1    -2.1    14.4         14.1   15.5          3.7             135
(c) Other basic industrial
chemicals                     3       3       6.5                 -          17.6  21.2      17.6   19.9        30.9   35.9          1.4             308
(d)  Miscellaneous chemicals         5       6       6.2                0.7          8.9  14.0       8.8   18.5        23.7   29.5          0.3              97
II. Manufacture of Machinery
except electrical                    7       7       7.1                4.7         -0.9 -16.1    -10.2  -43.0         24.0   18.5          0.4                9
TIIT  Electrical machinerv                 5       5       3.5                 5.4       43.2  62.6    20.4   25.4           54.4   56.2         10.3              43
IV. Basic metal industry
(a) Tron & steel basic
industries                   5       5       4.1                0.4        14.7  19.0       21.7   27.8        28.4   28.9          -                70
(b)  Non-ferrous metal               3       3       4.2                 -          18.6  13.5      15.4   12.3        24.8   19.7          -               116
V.   Manufacture of textiles               4       4       5.4                0.7          4.7   3.9   -14.4  -37.8          42.4   46.1         27.4                4
VI.  Manufacture of non-metallic
mineral products
(a)  Cement                          6       6      10.7                0.6        14.6  14.8       10.8     6.8       29.0   28.5          1.1              37
(b)  Others                          1       1       1.9               25.5         17.4  -0.7        -       -*       36.7   40.5           -               20
VII. Manufacture of paper &
paper products                       4       4       6.1                 -          16.8  18.8    10.8   14.6          27.5   31.6          0.2               51
VII. Footwear, other wearing
apparel and made-up textile
goods                                1       1       0.4               12.5        -24.1   -*      -81.1       -a      25.0  -40.9           -                 -
IX   Miscellaneous products                2       2       0.7                7.1          3.6   6.7      -8.9      7.1      15.9   23.1           -                18
Average                 54       57     100.0                1.7        15.1  17.0    12.8   13.4          27.6   30.1          2.8               49
Note   1.  The data furnished relate to those companies which have gone either into full or partial production.
2.  Return on investment: earnings before interest and taxes as % of net worth plus long-term capital.
3. Value added/capital: see Annex 3.14.
*   Negative net worth or total investment.
December 14, 1972



THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Overruns in Cost and Time of Projects Completed
during 1965 to 1972
A - Overrun in Cost
1965                                     1966                                      1967                                      1968
No. of      Initial                      No. of      Initial                       No. of      Initial                       No. of      Initial
Projects   Estimate    Actual            Projects   Estimate    Actual             Projects   Estimate    Actual            Projects   Estimate    Actual
(Rs million)                             (Rs million)                              (Rs million)                              (Rs million)
Overruns in
Investment Cost
Projects completed
within estimates              -           -            -               3          44.57       39.39              1         56.34        53.11              3         91.04        84.57
Overrun below 25%               2         65.30        78.00              1          5.40         5.83             6        534.85       619.14              8        333.60       389.82
Overrun 25 - 50%                -            -           -               1          43.75        67.80             4         57.74        76.41              7        714.72       978.95
Overrun over 507.                                    -           -            - -     -                            3         75.55       121.58              2         46.74        77.48
Total          2         65.30        78.00             5         93.72       113.02             14        724.48       870.24            20       1,186.10   1,530.82
1969                                     1970                            1971 - June 30, 1972                          Total (1965-72)
No. of      Initial                      No. of      Initial                      No. of       Initial                      No. of       Initial
Projects   Estimate    Actual            Projects   Estimate       Actual         Projects   Estimate        Actual         Projects   Estimate        Actual
(Rs million)                             (Rs million)                             (Rs million)                               (Rs million)
Overruns in
Investment Cost
Projects completed
within estimates              6          793.93       736.28           7         1,413.69    1,372.82            7          563.40       558.50          27         2,962 .97   2,844.67
Overrun below 25%               4           160.29      172.35           3           184.00       199.39          10           324.20      371.20           34        1,607.64    1,835.73
Overrun 25 - 50%                1            73.93       92.73           4           107.60       141.75           X           157.40      217.90           25        1,155.14   1,575.54
Overrun over 50%                -            -           -                -           -            -               2            44.50       65.80            7           166.79      264.86
Total         11        1,028.15    1,001.36           14        1,705.29    1,713.96            27        1,089.50   1,213.40            93         5,892.54   6,520.80
B - Overrun in Time
Total
1965 - 1966                     1967 - 1968                      1969 - 1970                   1971 - June 30, 1972                   (1965 - 1972)
No. of        % of               No. of         % of               No. of        % of               No. of         % of               No. of         % of
Projects      Total              Projects       Total              Projects      Total              Projects       Total              Projects       Total
Projects completed
on schedule                   1           14.3                 3             8.8                 6           24.0                 3            11.1                13            13.9
With less than one
year delay                    5           71.4                14            41.2                10           40.0                 5            18.5                34            36.6
With delays over
one year                      1           14.3                1i            50.0                 9            36.0               19            70.4                46            49.5
Total          7          100.0                34           100.0                25           100.0               27           100.0                93           100.0
December 13, 1972



,FNEX  3.17
THE INDUSTRIAL DE-vELOPIIENT BANK O fIDIA
Comparative Income Statements, Years Ended June 30, 1968-72-/
(Rs million)
LNCOINS                                                                  1968      1969       1970       1971       1972
1.  Interest
a)  Direct loans to Industrial concerns (other than exports)    40.24          48.6)4     59.44      62.06      62.18
b)  Direct loans - Exports                                             -          -        0.35       3.77       7.68
c)  Refinance                                                       43.54      38.88      36.92      37.37     41.17
d)  Refinance - Export Credits                                       0.14       0.22       1.21       2.18       5.42
2.  Discount (earned on bills rediscounted)                               u.67      12.05     17.74      25.60      39.10
3.  Income from Investments
a.) Dividend on shares of Joint Stock Companies                      0.08       0.16       0.74       4.26       5.49
b)  Dividend on shares of Financial Institutions                      0.39      2.74       1.75       1.82       2.88
c)  Interest on debentures of Joint Stock Companies Account          1.00       1.22       0.85       o.63       0.92
d)  Interest on debentures of Financial Institutions                  7.44      8.88      10.56      11.35      12.37
e)  Interest on Government Securities                                 3.89      8.32       6.05       4.58       6.98
4.  Other Inceme
a)  luarantee commission                                             1.71       1.99       1.71       1.47       2.59
-b) Profit on sale of investment in shares of Joint Stock
Companies Account                                               -          -         6.63      2.81       0.06
c)  Others                                                           1.48       1.32       1.13       1.95       1.67
Gross Income                                              io6.53    124.42    145.o8    159.85    188.71
EXPENDI TURE
1.  Payment of Interest
a)  To Reserve Bank of India                                         2.86       2.96       3.18      15.70      40.24
b)  To Government of India                                           64.47     76.26      85.64      85.29      83.30
c)  On bonds                                                           -         -          -          -         2.04
2.  Administrative Expenses                                               3.50       3.99       5.04      9.40      12.36
Gross Profit                                               35.75      41.21      51.22     49.46      50.77
APPROPRIATION
a)  Transfer to Reserves                                            23.14      28.35      30.94      24.65      22.85
b)  Transfer to Reserve Bank of India. (by way of dividend)           7.50       7.50      800       9.38      13.13
c)  Balance of Profit in the DAF Account                              4.80      5.02       7.79       9.78       8.67
d)  Interest on leans and advances - Suspense Account                 0.31      0.34       0-33       3.65       6.11
e)  Investment Reserve Account                                         -          _        4.16       2.00       0.01
1/   Inclusive of assistance from Development Assistance Fund.
November 23, 1972



1/.iXlJ3.18
THIE I.I.JUST-ZlIL FbJ-LDP1iT--.LqT r3>tJK O- IITDIj,
Conparative 3alance .'neets,  June 30, 1O   i.
(Trs millionl)
.i,SL ,-,                                    1958 1a)o            1970       1°71      1972
Current Assets                              166.2      192.8     l9L.2      129.1      2J.?
Cash and ba.nk balcrces                                 -        0.1        1.0      13.
Glovernment securities                    15. 1       lk5.8     15.i       86.5      136.0
11ccrued inco-me and other assets,         30.1       L7.0      L 1.7      LO0.u     111.7
Dills and Notes Rediscounted                107.5      267.7     '8.6       588.0         I?
Loans and Advances                        1,220.1   1,353.5   l, 4LL.5   1,6 79.9   1,839.7
To financiLl institutions                 646.o      4Lo0.0    6`7.7      783.2      85 .7
To industrial concerns                    57l.1      713-!     806,.C     896.7      967.0
]Investments                               _10.3       365.7      3bo.l     W0.9       L92.6
In financial institutions                 193.5      236.33    2!i3.      278.5      312.8
(Shares)                               (53.5)    (53.5 )    (53.5)    (70.6)    (94-1)
(Bonds andl debentuies)               (lbo.0)   (16)i.7)   (169.7)   (207.7)   (218r7)
In industrial concerns                    116.8      127.L     122.9      1J2.I      179.8
(,shres)                              (10.0)   (110.1)   (111.7)   (15.5)    (167.9)
(Bonds and debentures)                 (12.6)    (17-3)      (8.2)      (7-9)    (11.9)
Aixed "jssets                               0.2        0.2        0.,       0. o       0.9
1,S88.3  2?,179.9   ?L'3,7-7   2 838.5   3,L.5o.3
!LBILITIT'S  A,ND CMPITAL
Current Liabilities                          20.8       -9.2        7 -L     7i .9     115.7
Borrolving                                1,585.9   1,837.7   2,030.5   2,281.3   2,719.8
;rom Government of India                1,525.0   1,775.0   1,767.8   1,730.9   1,665.1
Lroml Reserve BLnk of India                60.9       b2.7     26S2.7     550.L      928.2
Bonds and debentures                                    -          -                 126.5
E2uityr                                     2G9.       30.0       35.9 4 82.3          613.8
Pail-up capit-l                           200.0      200.0     ?00.0      300.0      400.0
Reserve ilenmd                             a,.6      103.0     161.7      17G.1      207.6
Investment rleserve                    -_,_.                      L.2       6.2        6.2
1,88L.3   2,179.9   2, 33.7   2,838.5   3,450.3
Conting7ent Liabllities                     505.5      485°5     43,192     607,2      659.1
1/   Inclusi-ve of assistance Prom Developmuent !Lssistc-nce Fuad.
. . Negligible.
Jo-verber 2;. 1972



ANNEX 3.19
ITE I' JUSThIL:L D'J TELOPFM1T 21K 01? ILm
Principal and Interest In. .rrears
(Jirect Lobias Other Than for E-e>ports)
(Rs ' 000)
AJe of                                             Amount of Principal
Arrears   .    s of      l4o. of      Principal       and Interest in         as ,; of tot-l
(months)     June 30   Projects    OutstandilnJ            Lrrears        Loans OutstandinL,
(1)_         (2)        (3)           (4)                  (5)                  (6)
0_3            19G9       15           230,289              17,6 92              32.27
1970                    ? 8,  oo             1,103                 .9)4
1971      11            i0 0v                8,789                6.61
1972       9            23,585               1,268                3.08
3-6            1969        1             9 ,700                803                0 .38
1970       1               4L610               359                O.61
1971       9      ~     '8',900              7,399                3.82
1972       -
U-12           1969        I  92,600                         1,0L3                3.16
1970       L            lo,IB6o              1,176                 1.39
1971       2             5,500                h40                 0.73
1972       6            21,900               2,375                 2.86
12-24          1969        1               700                 132                0.10
1970       3            -2,200               2,907                2.83
1971       2             9,500                 713                 1.25
1972       3             5,590                 952                 0.73
Over 24        1969        1             3,500                 o22                0.4e
1970       2             4,200               1,666                0.51
1971       3            30,400               5,942                b.01
________        1972       1             3,511               2,962                 0.46
Tota,l         1969       22           259,789              20,292               36.4o
1970      16            80,300               7,211               10.31
1971      20           1?4,353              ?3,273               10.42
1972      19            54,586               7,557                 7.11
ko-vember 2-', 1972



ANNEX 3.20
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Forecasts of Approvals, Comnitments and Disbursements (1973-1976)
(Es Million)
Year,s ending                                1972         1973      1974       1975     1976
June 30                                    (Actuals)
Approvals
DLrect Loans                               513         500        350        400       400
Loans for Exports                          193         200        210        240       260
REfinance of Export Credits                 33         100        120        120       140
Refinance of Industrial Loans              306         350        650        775       895
(of which SFCs)                        (250)       (300)      (525)     (625)      (720)
(of which, IDA credit om-lending        -            -        (150)     (175)      (200)
to SFC8 for imports)
Riidiscounting of Bills                    453         510        550        550       550
Industrial Concerns *-                     146           80        70         80        80
Financial Institutions *                    37           60        70         90       110
Total                            1,680        1,800     2,020      2.255      2.435
Commitments
Direct Loans (Other than for Exports)    299            700       447        372       396
Loans for Exports                          103          202       209        237       258
Refinance of Export Credits                 45          105       119        120       138
Refinance of Industrial Loans              240         306        350        650       775
(of which SFCs)                        (170)       (250)      (300)     (525)      (625)
(of which, IDA credit on-lending        -            -        (135)     (170)      (180)
to SFCs for imports)
Radiscounting of Bills                     405          430       470        470       470
Industrial Concerns `'                      65           86        74         72        79
Financial Institutions *                  __i            60        70         90       110
Total                           1,215        1,889     1,739      2,011      2,226
Disbursements
Direct Loans (Other than for Exports)       96          400       530       350        400
Loans for Exports                          102         250        250       250        265
Refinance of Export Credits                 48           50       120       120        140
Refinance of Industrial Loans              240          300       520       620        715
(of which SFCs)                        (170)       (225)      (419)    (500)       (575)
(of which, IDA credit on-lending       -             -        (120)    (140)       (160)
to SFCs for imports)
Reliscounting of Bills                     383          430       470       470        470
Industrial Concerns -                       18           30        50        50         50
Financial Institutions *                    58           60        70        90         110
Total                            945        1,520     2,010    1,950        2,150
7  Investnent in shares and debentures
Decemnb,r 20, 1972



ANNEX 3.21
TEE INDUSTRIAL DEVEBLOPNET BANK OF INDIA
ProJected Cash Flow Statneauts (1973-1976)
Years ending                         1972         1973      1974       1975     1976
June 30                             (Actuals)
Sources
Cash generation                     75         268        216        274      338
Increase in share capital          100          -         100         -        -
IDA/GOI Borrowings                  -           -         120        140      160
Other GOI Borrowings                -           -          75         80       90
Reserve Bank of India Borrowings  378          400        550        400      400
Bond issue                         127         284        330        350      350
Rupee Loan Collections             519         683        932      1,075    1,240
Sale of investments/redemption       8          28         30         3     _  35
of debentures
Total                     1.207      1,663       2,353     2,354    2.613
Uses
Increase in fixed assets            -           -         -           -        -
Disbursements of loans             869       13430      1,890      1,810    1,990
(of which, IDA credit on-         -          -         (120)      (140)    (160)
lending to SFCs)
Disbursements of investments        76          90        120        140      160
Repayments of loans:
Rupee loans (GOI)                 66          89        119        124      129
IDA/GOI Credit                    -          -           -          -        -
Payments of Interest               126         160        208        262      314
Dividend payments                    9          13         16         18       20
Total                    1,146      1,782       2.353     2.354    2.613
Cash surplus (shortage)             61        (119)                   -        -
Opening cash balance (including    88          149         30         30       30
GOI securities)
Closing cash balance (including   149           30         30         30       30
GOI securities)
December 15, 1972



ANNEX 3.22
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT BANK OF INDI1
ProJected Income Statements (1973-1976)
(Rs Million)
Years ending                                                  1972         1973          1974        1975         1976
June :30_ _                                                  (Actuals)
,INCOHL
1.  Interest
a) Direct loans to industrial concerns                    62.18         74.74        104.30      131.13     15.14
(other than exports)
b, Direct loans for exports                                7.88         14.76         24.23       32.90       40.77
c, Refinance for domestic expenditures                    41.17         46.12         54.22       64.50       75.79
d, Refinance of export credits                             5.42          5.24          7.16       10.19        12.55
e) Refinance to IFC (IDA credit) for imports                -             -            4.20       13.30       23.80
2.  Discount (earned on bills rediscounted)                   39.10         52.05         59.65       62.91       64.54
3. Income from Investments
a) Dividend on shares of joint stock companies             5.49          2.58          2.79        3.13        3.46
b) Dividend on shares of financial institutions            2.88          5.45          6.30        6.52         6.78
c) Interest on debentures of joint stock companies         0.92          1.02          1.49        1.88         2.11
d) Interest on debentures of financial institutions       12.37         13.95         16.74       21.33       27.09
a) Interest on government securities                       6.98          1.50          1.50        1.50         1.50
4.  Other Income
a) Guarantee Commission                                    2.59          2.60          3.54        4.38        5.16
b) Profit on sale of investment in shares on               o.o6          5.00          5.00        5.25        5.25
joint stock companies Account
lc) Others                                                 1.67          3.20          3.60        3.80         4.20
Gross Income                                             188.71        228.21        294.72      362.72      424.14
EXPEND]:TURE
1.  Pament of interest                                       125.58        160.49        207.91      262.34       314.20
a) To Reserve Bank of India                               40.24         67.00         95.22      123.43       147.19
b) To Government of India                                 83.30         78.08         79.63       86.30        94.27
(of which, IDA/GOI borrowing)                                       -           (3.45)     (10.93)      (13.69)
c) Bonds                                                   2.04         15.41         33.06       52.61        72.74
2. Administrative Expenses                                    12.36         14-43         16.96       19.89        23.01
a) Establishment expenses                                  8.70         10.01         11.51       13.24        15.25
b) Law charges                                             0.22          0.25          0.30         0.35        0.40
c) Others                                                  3-44          4.17         5.15         6.30         7.36
Gross Profit                                              50.77         53.29         69.85        80.49       86.93
APPROPRIATICl
a) Transfer to Reserves/Provisions                        37.64         37.29         51.85       60.49        66.93
b) Transfer to Reserve Bank of India (by way of dividend) 13.13         16.00         18.00       20.00        20.00
December 15, 1972



ANNEX 3.23
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Projected Balance Sheets (1973-1976)
(Rs million)
June,30                                   1972       1973         1974        1975         1976
(Actuals)                                -            -
ASSETS
Current Assets                           261          39           54          59           69
Cash, bank balances, and               149          30           30          30           30
Governnent Securities
Accrued income and other assets        112           9           24          29           39
Bills and Notes Rediscounted             856       1,056        1,126       1,161        1.161
Rupee Loans and Advances              1,840        2,467        3.435       4,215 
To financial institutions              853         973       1,338        1,723        29133
To iduutrial concerns                987        1,494       2,097        2,I492       2,912
Investmeats                             493          560          660         777          912
In financial institutions             313          370          440         532          642
In industrial concerns                180          190          220         245          270
Fixed Assets                               1           1            1            1           1
3,450      4t,123        5,276       6,213        7,188
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                      117         158          203          233         271
Borrowings                             2,720       3 3          4,27                     5.907
From GOI                             1,665 
(of which, IDA/GOI Credit)          -            _          (120)        (260)        (420)
From RBI                               928       1,328        1,878       2,278        2,678
Bonds                                  127         410          740       1,090        1,,440
Equity                                   614         651          803          864         930
Paid-up capital                       40040                     500         500        -70-0
Reserves                               214         251          303         364          430
3,450       4.,123       5,276        6,213       7,188
December 15, 1972



