CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 356 IN
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank of India Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 356 IN
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank of India Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (hereinafter called
IDBI).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower), and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
subject to IDBI agreeing to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS IDBI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of IDBI
Section 2.01. (a) IDBI shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01
of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, economic,
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Industrial Development
Bank of India Act, No. 18 of 1964.


﻿4
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, IDBI shall (i) enter into
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.02(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement, (ii) utilize the proceeds of the Credit to refinance sub-loans
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including the principal
terms set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, subject to any amendments thereof
which may be agreed upon from time to time with the Association and (iii) carry
out supervision of, and assist, the SFCs as shall be necessary or desirable to ensure
compliance with, and fulfillment of the objectives of, the operating guidelines and
institutional development programs referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, IDBI shall request authorization by the Association
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of the sub-loans proposed
to be refinanced out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBI shall not request
authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account to provide refinancing
to any SFC which (i) has not adopted the operating guidelines for SFCs drawn
up by IDBI, in consultation with the Association, and dated November 29, 1972,
or having adopted such guidelines shall have failed to implement the same, or (ii)
has not agreed with IDBI to carry out the institutional development program for
such SFC drawn up by IDBI, in consultation with the Association, and dated
November 29, 1972, including measures to reduce arrears and to strengthen staff,
appraisal and follow-up methods, or having so agreed shall have failed to implement
the same, or (iii) has a ratio of net earnings plus repayments of loan principal
by its debtors to debt service requirements on all of its indebtedness then
outstanding, all of which calculated on the basis of actual figures for the preceding
six months and of projected figures for the succeeding six months, of less than
1.0 to 1 as of October 1, 1973 or of less than 1.1 to I as of April 1, 1974
or of less than 1.25 to I as of April 1 in any succeeding year.
For the purposes hereof:
(i)         the term "net earnings" means gross income less operating and
administrative expenses, including provision for bad and doubtful
debts and taxes, if any, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt; and
(ii)       the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions,
if any), interest and other charges on debt.


﻿5
(c)   Each request by IDBI for authorization to make     vithdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a sub-loan shall contain a description of the
Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the
terms and conditions of such sub-loan, together with a certificate by IDBI that
such request is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this Section
2.02. The Association shall be entitled to require IDBI to submit to the Association
for review the appraisal by the SFC proposing to make a sub-loan of the Investment
Project for which authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account has
been requested.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, requests made pursuant
to this Section 2.02 shall be submitted to the Association on or before June 30,
1975.
Section 2.03. IDBI shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the sub-loans and the SFCs.
Section 2.04. (a) IDBI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project refinanced out of' the proceeds of the Credit in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Association and of IDBI, to comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBI shall exercise
its right to call for prepayment of refinancing as provided under Schedule I to
this Agreement.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each sub-loan to be
refinanced by IDBI out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be made in accordance
with the operating guidelines referred to in Section 2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement
and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDBI and the Association, including
the principal terms set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to any
amendments thereof which may be agreed upon from time to time with the
Association, and the SFC making such sub-loan shall obtain rights adequate to
protect the interests of IDBI and of said SFC, including the right of said SFC
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require
that (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan


﻿6
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and
(B) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) visit the Investment Enterprise, by itself or jointly with
representatives of IDBI and of the Association, if the Association shall so request,
and study the operation thereof, the Investment Project, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and that, without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan to the place of use or installation;
(v) obtain all such information as the Association, IDBI or said SFC shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract
with said SFC.
Section 2.05. IDBI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBI shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. IDBI shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of IDBI Lnder this Agreement to the extent to which
the same shall or can be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding
upon each of such subsidiaries.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IDBI shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including
the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of IDBI.
Section 3.02. IDBI shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, by independent and qualified auditors, in accordance with


﻿7
sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) ensure that the accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year of each SFC refinanced out of the proceeds
of the Credit be audited, by independent and qualified auditors, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (c) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available but in any case not later than five months after the end of
each such year, certified copies of its and said SFCs' audited financial statements
for such year and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (d) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of IDBI and said SFCs and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. IDBI shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any of its outstanding debt which, in the judgment of the Association,
would materially affect IDBI's ability to meet its financial obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and IDBI shall cooperate fully to ensure
*        that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and IDBI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of IDBI, in respect of the Project,
and of the SFCs, and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b)   IDBI shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of IDBI and its subsidiaries, in respect of the Project, and of
the SFCs.
Section 4.02. The Association and IDBI shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations Linder this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
IDBI of their respective obligations tinder the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. IDBI shall inform the Association, in sufficient time for its
comments, of any proposed amendment to the operating guidelines referred to
in Section 2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement or to any institutional development program
referred to in Section 2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.


﻿8
Section 4.04. IDBI shall inform the Association of each SFC's debt service
coverage ratio, as determined in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph
(iii) of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, within forty-five days after each date
specified therein.
Section 4.05. IDBI shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
IDBI thereunder shall terminate on a date eighteen (18) years after the date of
this Agreement, provided that if the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the aforementioned date, the Association shall
promptly notify IDBI of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted tr, be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿0                                9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For IDBI:
Industrial Development Bank of India
New India Centre
17, Cooperage
Bombay 1
Cable address:
INDBANKIND
Bombay
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of IDBI may be taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person
or persons as IDBI shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. IDBI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of IDBI, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by IDBI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
By  /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE I
Principal Terms of IDBI Refinancing
1.   The SFC concerned shall pay interest at the rate of not less than six and
one-half per cent (6-1/2%) per annum upon the foreign currency component of
the principal amount of the refinancing withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
2.    The SFC concerned shall pay a commitment charge at a rate of one per
cent (1%) per annum upon the unwithdrawn amount of the refinancing.
3.    The principal amount of the refinancing shall be repaid by the SFC concerned
in accordance with an amortization schedule to be agreed between IDBI and said
SFC, but the period thereof shall not extend beyond fifteen (15) years and provision
shall be made for prepayment in the event that a sub-loan or any part thereof
shall be repaid by the Investment Enterprise in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of
for value by the SFC concerned.
4.    The SFC concerned shall agree to implement the operating guidelines and
the institutional development program referred to in Section 2.02(b)(i) and (ii)
of this Agreement, and to meet the debt service coverage ratio specified in Section
2.02(b)(iii) of this 4greement, and IDBI shall have the right, inter alia, to call
for prepayment of the principal amount of the refinancing in the event that the
SFC concerned will have ceased to be eligible for refinancing under the provisions
of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of SFC Lending
1.   The Investment Enterprise concerned shall pay interest at a rate of not less
than nine per cent (9%) per annum upon the foreign currency component of the
principal amount of the sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
2.   iThe Investment Enterprise concerned shall pay a commitment charge at a
rate of one per cent (1%) per annum upon the unwithdrawn amount of the sub-loan.
3.   The principal amount of the sub-loan shall be repaid by the Investment
Enterprise concerned in accordance with an amortization schedule to be agreed
between the SFC and the Investment Enterprise concerned, but the period thereof
(including any period of grace) shall not extend beyond fifteen (15) years.


