CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 356 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank of India Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9,1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 356 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank of India Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,        dated    February   9,   1973.    between   INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Industrial Development Bank
of India with the assistance of the Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Industrial Development Bank of India the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
*       and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Industrial Development Bank of India;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "LDBl" means the Industrial Development Bank of India, a body
corporate established under Section 3 of the Industrial Development Bank of India
Act, No. 18 of 1964;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and IDBI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and IDBI pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "SFC" means a financial corporation established under Section 3 or
Section 3A of the State Financial Corporations Act, No. 63 of 1951, and includes
the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited;
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
an SFC to an Investment Enterprise to carry out an Investment Project and which
includes financing provided or to be provided by IDBI;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which an SFC has
made or proposes to make a sub-loan;
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project which
includes imported items to be paid for in foreign currency;
(h)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower; and
(j)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned by IDBI or by
any one or more subsidiaries of IDBI or by IDBI and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in    various  currencies equivalent  to  twenty-five  million  dollars
($25,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. (a) Subject as set forth hereinafter and in Section 2.02 of
the Project Agreement, the Borrower may withdraw from the Credit Account the
equivalent of forty per cent (40%) (or such other percentage, representing the
estimated foreign currency component, as may be agreed upon from time to time
between the Borrower and the Association) of amounts expended by IDBI in
refinancing sub-loans to cover the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Investment Projects.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shal
be made in respect of any sub-loan for an Investment Project the total cost whereof
may exceed the equivalent of ten million Rupees (RslO,000,000).
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and subject to the
limitation contained in Section 5.01(a) of the General Conditions, no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment Enterprise in
respect of a sub-loan more than one hundred ardl eighty days prior to the date
on which the Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August I commencing
February 1, 1983, and ending August 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
The Project; Relending to IDBI;
Supervision of SFCs
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Credit is to assist IDBI in expanding its
activities in financing the development of the small- and medium-scale industrial
sector in India and in improving the effectiveness of the SFCs as institutions catering
to this sector. The Project consists of the refinancing by IDBI of specific
development projects to be financed by the SFCs through loans to productive
enterprises in India.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
IDBI under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and IDBI under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
the principal terms set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to any
amendments thereof which may be agreed upon from time to time with the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the      0
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take and
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable IDBI to perform
all its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of the
obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all action necessary to ensure (i) the prompt importation of goods and
services required for Investment Projects, including the granting of all licenses,
foreign exchange permits and other approvals, and (ii) that the Reserve Bank of
India shall make all such inspections of the working of the SFCs and of their
books and accounts and shall prepare and submit all such reports of such inspections
as shall be required to enable IDBI to implement the provisions of Section
2.01(b)(iii) of the Project Agreement.
S


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by IDBI of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of IDBI, in respect of the Project, and of the SFCs, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
*        and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. The BorroWer shall inform the Association, as soon as
practicable, of any proposed amendment to the Industrial Development Bank of
India Act, No. 18 of 1964, or the State Financial Corporations Act, No. 63 of
195 1, or of any other legislation that would materially affect the operations of
IDBI or the SFCs.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿8
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   IDBI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of IDBI under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that IDBI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   IDBI shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by IDBI or by others whereby
any of the property of IDBI shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(d)   The Industrial Development Bank of India Act, No. 18 of 1964, or
the State Financial Corporations Act, No. 63 of 1951, or the operating guidelines
referred to in Section 2.02(b)(i) of the Project Agreement or any institutional
development program referred to in Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the


﻿9
judgment of the Association, to materially affect the carrying out of the Project
or the operations or financial condition of IDBI or the SFCs.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of IDBI or the SFCs or
for the suspension of operations of IDBI or the SFCs.
(f)   A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by IDBI, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would, in the
judgment of the Association, adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in Section 6.02(a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and IDBI.
(b)   Any event specified in Section 6.02(c), (d), (e) or (1) of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
IDBI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and IDBI, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿10
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, IDBI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of IDBI in accordance with its terms.
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and IDBI,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
IDBI in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date May 9, 1973, is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿*11
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
(1)  Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
(2)  The following paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(3)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered into
Section 6.02(h).
(5)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02(d) of the Project
Agreement no requests permitted under Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement shall have been received by the Association in respect of any
portion of the Credit or, having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may by notice to
the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such requests
or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(6)  The words ", the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(7)  The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of Relending to IDBI
1.   IDBI shall pay interest at an offective rate of five and three-quarters per
cent (5-3/4%) per annum upon the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
2.    The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid by IDBI within a period
of fifteen (15) years (including a grace period of three (3) years) reckoned from
the date of the first withdrawal.
3.    Principal and interest shall be payable by IDBI in the currency of the
Borrower, and the Borrower shall assume all foreign exchange risks resulting from
the relending of the proceeds of the Credit.


