Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7106-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE RFPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 25, 1988
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatieq.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00 - CFAF 277
CFAF 1 million - USS 3,610
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PAML            Medium and Long Term Adjustment Program
PIP             Public Investment Program
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
FAC             Fund for Aid and Cooperation
MPC             Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
MEF             Ministry of Economy and Finance
MFPT            Ministry of Civil Service and Labor
DP              Planning Department
DPFC            Department of Programming, Financing and
Monitoring of Public Investment
DGD             Customs Department
DGID            Department of Land and Internal Revenue
DDI             Public Debt and Investment Department
SDA             Social Dimension of Adjustment
DS               Statistics Department
DFP             Civil Service Department
SCS             Central Payroll Agency
PAU             Project Administration Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
BOM             Bureau of Organization and Methods
CICS             Inter-Ministerial Committee of Coordination and
Monitoring
SDR             Special Drawing Right
FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1 - JTJNE 30



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL           wa I  AWUA"L L  ON,CLY
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................................... i-iii
I.  BACKGROUND ...............................................   1
Introduction ........................................... 1
Macro-economic Setting   .           ...  1
II. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ................................... 3
Early Reform Programs           .......... . 3
Administrative Assessment              .       .     5
Lessons Learned ........................................ 5
Re-orientation of the Reform Program         .    .     7
Implication of the New Orientation         ..   7
IDA and Other Donor Support for....................
Public Sector Management            .       .          9
III. THE PROJECT ............................................... 10
Project Concept ........................................ 10
Project Objectives ..................................... 10
Proiect Description .................................... 11
Nat:onal Planning System            .       .     12
Economic and Financial Management .................. 13
Social Dimension of Adjustment         .     .       14
Civil Service Reform        .    .       ............ . 14
Project Administration             .       .     15
IV.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ................... 16
Project Cost ........................................... 16
Financing Plan ......................................... 17
Procurement ............................................ 18
Disbursements .......................................... 19
Accounts and Audits .................................... 19
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Mrs L.H. Truong (mission leader), and Messrs. S. Amar, A. Diawara, and E.
Scanteie (Bank), and J.C. Bosse (consultant), which visited Senegal in
September/October 1987 to appraise the Project. It incorporates the
conclusions of a pre-appraisal mission, led by Mr. E. De Gaiffier in June,
1987 and a follow-up mission by Mrs. Truong in December 1987. The SDA
component was appraised by a mission led by Mr. M. Noel in November, 1987.
Mmes C. Machado and B. Kerby provided cost calculation and secretarial
support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World anik authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................... 20
Project Coordination and Administration ................ 20
Annual Work Programs ................................... 21
Reporting, Monitoring and Accountability ............... 21
Status of Project Implementation ...................... 22
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................... 22
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .............................. 24
Agreements Reached ..................................... 24
Recommendation ......................................... 24
ANNEXES
Annex I   : Criteria and Systems for Contractual Staff and.
Granting Performance Bonuses ...................... 25
Annex II  : Project Cost Tables ................................ 27
Table 1 : Project Cost Summary ................... 27
Table 2 : Project Components by Year ............. 28
Table 3 : Summary Accounts Cost Summary .......... 29
Annex III : Consultant Service Requirements .................... 30
Annex IV  :  Summary Disbursement Schedule ...................... 33
Annex V   : Organizational Charts .............................. 34
Annex VI  :  Selected Indicators of Project Success ............. 37
Anrnex VII :  Implementation Schedule ............................ 39
Annex VIII:  Selected Documents Available ....         .      .       42
Map: IBRD No. 21021 R



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MIANGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of the Republic of Senegal
'Iplem_nting              Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, Ministry of
Asenciess                Economy and Finance, and Ministry of Civil
Service and Labor
Credit Amounts            SDR 12.5 million  JUS$17.0 million equivalent)
Termss                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancina:              CIDA (Canada), US$2.0 million equivalent
Prolect                   The project will finance expertise, training and
Descrivtion:             equipment for key institutions responsible for
macro-economic management and civil service in
order to: (i) build Government's national
planning capability through consolidating public
investment programming, execution and monitoring
of public investments, enhancing development
policy formulation, and strengthening central
planning structures; (ii) improve economic and
financial management capabilities through
improved fiscal administration, debt management,
statistical systems, and policy formulation and
monitoring; (iii) incorporate the social
dimension into the structural adjustment process
through the establishment of a permanent standard
of living survey and the design of poverty-
alleviation projects; and (iv) improve civil
service performance through rehabilitating
personnel agencies and modernizing personnel
policies.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
2 Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total   exchange
-------US$,000--------
A. National Planning System
Strenghten Central Structures               421     466       887        53
Consolidate Investment Mechanism            805     393    1,198         33
Improve Development Policies
Formulation                            1,018      678    1,696         40
B. Economic and Financial Management
Mobilize Fiscal Resources                   932   1,318    2,250         59
Manage Public Debt                          560     665    1,225         54
Rehabilitate Statistical System             367     811    1,178         69
Improve Policy Formulation and
Monitoring                                 379     276       655        42
C. Social Dimension of Adiustment
Establish Permanent Survey Capacity    1,884   1,99'    3,879            51
Conduct Socio-economic Studies               86     491       577        85
D. Modernization of Civil Service System
Rehabilitate Personnel Agencies           1,737   2,448    4,185         58
Improve Policy Framework                    582     946    1,528         62
E. Proiect Administration                      628      403    1,031        39
Baseline Costs                           9,399  10,890   20,289          54
Physical Contingencies                      273     665       938        71
Price Contingencies                      1,665   1,821    3,486          52
Total Project Cost                      11,337  13,376   24,713          54
======  =====   ========
Financing Sources:
Local   Foreign  Total
-----US$ million------
Government                         5.7        -       5.7
CIDA (Canada)                      0.6       1.4      2.0
IDA                                5.0     12.0      17.0
Total                             11.3      13.4     24.7
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988     1989    1990      1991      1992      1993    1994
----------------------US$ million-----------------------
Annual             1.0       2.4     3.4       3.0       3.4      3.0      0.8
Cummulative        1.0       3.4     6.8       9.8     13.2      16.2    17.0



- iii -
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:              The project is expected to generate tangible
benefits in terms of better information and more
effective processing systems for key administrative
functions, namely, investment planning and
monitoring, production of social and economic
statistics, resource mobilization, debt management,
and personnel management. These results should
ultimately enhance policy formulation by providing
Senegalese authorities with the basis needed for
informed and timely decisions. At the same time,
the project is designed to promote more
participation of national staff in the analysis of
policy options and the implementation of policies,
including poverty-alleviation. The long-term goal is
to strengthen GOS's institutional capacity,
concomitantly with policy reforms, and to reduce its
reliance on external assistance. The project has
important risks, as demonstrated in past experience
with parastatal and administrative reforms in
Senegal and elsewhere. The process of change is
often resisted by those affected; well-entrenched
habits and attitudes will be difficult to break; and
the motivation of civil servants is weak. Designed
in a modular fashion, with distinct components
implemented on the basis of annual work programs,
the project reduces these risks by phasing the
process of change, clearly identifying tasks and
responsibilities and systematically involving and
motivating those affected in the reform process. By
establishing modest targets for this first phase,
the project moreover aims at laying the basis for
more profound administrative reforms in subsequent
steges.
Economic Rate of Return: not applicable
Memorandum of the President: No. P-4736-SE
Map: IBRD No. 21021 R
AF5CO
April 25, 1988



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01     The proposed Development Management Project is intended to support
Government's program of strengthening its institutional capacity for
managing the structural adjustment program, and establishing a firm
institutional basis for sustained growth with equity in the long run. It
was designed in response to the request of the Government of Senegal to:
(a) extend to a second phase the Technical Assistance Project for Economic
and Financial Planning (Cr. 1061-SE) which had laid the base and initiated
reforms in several key areas; (b) help implement recommendations *rising
from the Administrative Assessment carried out in 1985; and (c) incorporate
the social dimension in the design and implementation of its structural
adjustment program. Project preparation was carried out in 1986-87 by
Government with Bank assistance. Two advances from the Project Preparation
Facility of US$750,000 equivalent each were approved in May and December
1987, to finance project preparation and start-up activities.
Hacro-Economic Setting
1.02     Senegal has a limited, fragile natural resource base, subject to
periodic droughts and environmental degradation, and the economy is
vulnerable to adverse movements in international commodity markets.
Despite considerable efforts to diversify, the economy remains dependent on
traditional mainstays, such as groundnuts. GDP growth averaged only 2.3
percent per annum between 1960-84, and progress in major economic and
social indicators has been slow. Population growth is high (estimated at
3.0 percent in 1985). Senegal has an estimated per capita income (1986) of
US$420 (roughly half that of Cameroon or COte d'lvoire) placing it in the
ranks of the lower income countries.
1.03     Throughout the 19709, the structure of the economy deteriorated.
The degradation was accelerated by severe droughts and the 1973 and 1979
oil crises. High consumptiorn, particularly public consumption, the latter
brought about by an over-extended and inefficient public sector, limited
the ability of the economy to generate domestic savings. This resulted in
a high debt burden and balance of payment difficulties, in spite of large
inflows of concessional aid. By the end of the 1970s the economic
situation was critical. Senegal was confronted by unsustainable
consumption levels, untenable current account deficits and growing
budgetary deficits.
1.04     Starting in 1978, the Government took steps to bring the economic
crisis under control. A first adjustment program, launched in 1979 and
supported by IDA and the IMF, was only partially executed. In 1984, with
IDA assistance, Government prepared a new medium and long term adjustment
strategy for 1984-92 aiaing at restoring the major financial equilibria and
providing the basis for sustainable economic growth (Programme d'ajustement
a moyen et long -erme, PAML). To implement this program, the Bank



- 2 -
orgaxiized a Consultative Group for Senegal in March 1987 and mobilized the
support of virtually all financial institutions and bilateral and
multilateral donors active in Senegal.
1.05     Subsequently, the reform program was supported by two SALs,
approved in February 1986 and May 1987. The adjustment program was also
supported by other donors and the IMF. Since 1983, the Fund has
successfully conducted several stand-by arrangements with Senegal as well
as a Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement. These various assistance
programs have supported Government's efforts to: (a) reduce public finance
deficits, restore public savings, and re-establish a viable balance of
payments; (b) strengthen financial management through reforms of the
planning and investment programming system, the parastatal sector, and
fiscal policies; (c) introduce improved incentives in agriculture and
industry; and (d) initiate financial sector reforms. SAL III also
addresses the social issues of adjustment through support to national
employment for displaced agricultural industrial and administrative
personnel, as well as for unemployed aniversity graduates.
1.06     Overall, Senegal's record in implementing the adjustment program
has been good. There has been a marked improvement in key economic
parameters since 1984. The public finance deficit was reduced from 6.9
percent of GDP in 1983/84 to 3.4 percent in 1986/87 and a projected 2.9
percent in 1987/88; the current account balance deficit was reduced from
17.2 percent of GDP in 1983/84 to 10.8 percent in 1986/87 and a projected
9.2 percent in 1987/88. There have been notable improvements in parastatal
sector performance and in public investment programming. Moreover, the
incentive systems for agriculture and industry is being reviewed to enhance
competitiveness of these sectors, encourage private investment and
accelerate economic growth.
1.07     Notwithstanding the good record in implementing these policy
changes, Government has realized that, to ensure maximum impact and
sustainability of adjustment measures, additional efforts are required.
The critical areas that now need attention are: (a) monitoring and
mitigating the potentially adverse impact of policy changes in social and
political terms; (b) broadening the economic base of Senegal; and (c)
internalizing the process of adjustment. The Government is also aware
that, for these efforts to happen, it must first improve the capabilities
of the administrative system, so that the new adjustment-cum-development
strategy can be effectively translated into concrete policies and actions.



II. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
2.01     Since independence, the Government of Senegal has devoted
considerable effort to building a participative political system and a
viable economic entity out of a traditional society in which economic
interests revolved around very few cash crops. It has established a
functioning constitutional system, with a multi-party democratic parliament
and elections every five years. Economic achievements, on the other hand,
have been modest, and the financial performance poor, leading in the late
1970s to the economic crisis. Moreover, the serious and continuing
deterioration of the administration's efficiency has frequently resulted in
its inability to properly implement public policies and to play a more
active role in the formulation of economic and financial adjustment
measures.
Early Reform Program
2.02     The Government has long recognized the need to imprcve its
administrative efficiency and has made several attempts in this direction.
The first large-scale reform effort was launched in 1972, to organize the
country's regional and local levels of administration. The aim was to
extend the power of the central government over the entire territory and
establish an administrative structure responsive to local needs. The
reform was successful as far as laying the basis for the central government
to assert its authority over the territory, but efforts to build the local
level administration have given disappointing results. From the outset,
field programs lacked the necessary personnel and budget to become
operational.
2.03     A second effort at administrative reform took place in 1976.  This
reform focused on reorganizing all central ministries with the primary
objective to control and eventually reduce the wage bill. The major
supporter of the reform was the current President of the Republic himself.
As in the case of the 1972 effort, the 1976 reform failed to bring the
expected results. Hinistries were slow to respond; those that did, asked
for more staff; and in those cases where an exhaustive analysis had been
made, the results were contested by the concerned ministries.
2.04     Keenly conscious of the constraint to the adjustment process that
a w-Teak administration presents, the Government has set for itself the long-
term goal of establishing an administration that is smaller in size, less
costly, better motivated, more competent, more accountable, and more task-
oriented. In view of the difficulties in undertaking large scale reforms,
the Government has, so far, adopted incremental measures in response to
short-term priority demands. Thus, in conjunction with SAL II, it
initiated a series of actions, including reducing the percentage of tax
receipts accounted for by the wage bill, the number of personnel by a
strict program of not replacing retirees, inducing early retirement,
reducing the number of candidates entering professional training schools,
improving the management information system on public sector employees, and
improving the incentive system through performance related bonuses.



2.05     The results of these effo+ts so far have been mixed.  Government
has been able to keep a ceiling on new recruitment and the acquisition of
vehicles, and has been able to stabilize the wage bill. However, it is not
sure of the sustainability of the reforms over time. Moreover, since most
of these measures require approval of the Presidency, they tend to increase
the burden of senior officials who now must spend an enormous amount of
time on details. Thus, instead of helping to deconcentrate an over-
centralized administration, these early reform maasures have by and large
caused the administration to become even more centralized.
2.06     Consequently, basic structures and systems remain unchanged and
Senegal's administrative system is still characterized by: (i) heavy
reliance on a body of largely ill-adapted rules and regulations; (ii) a
staff training system emphasizing pre-service training thus failing to keep
up with technology changes; (iii) a large body of civil servants,
characterized by redundancy in some skill areas and shortage in others;
(iv) a considerable amount of external technical assistance, not
effectively utilized; (v) increasing centralization of decision making at
top levels, rendering both policy making and policy implementation more
problematic and time-consuming; and, most critical; and (vi) inability to
attract and retain qualified staff in key areas, due to low salaries and
lack of appropriate incentives. It i. widely recognized that weak
performance of the administration has contributed to Senegal's present
state of financial and economic difficulty.
2.07     The administration has been particularly weak in dealing with the
many problems in the economic and financial management area, the most
noteworthy of which are: (i) the poor yield of public inrestments which is
a major cause of Senegal's lagging economic performance; (ii) the weight of
debt service which consumes an increasing share of budgetary revenue; (iii)
poor fiscal performance in recent years which failed to match growth in
nominal GDP; (iv) the shortage of reliable and timely economic statistics
which hampers the formulation and monitoring of economic and financial
policies, particularly critical in a period of rapid structural adjustment;
(v) the need to address the social dimension of adjustment, particularly
the impact of adjustment on the least advantaged segments of the society;
and (vi) the need to reduce the weight of the public sector wage bill on
the budget. At the same time, the Government has been preoccupied with
short-term responses to its present economic crisis, whereas a longer-term,
strategic perspective of Senegal's development is necessary.
2.08     With regards to the problem of low motivation and shortage of
qualified si:aff in key skill areas, the Government's approach has been to
(a) grant s ccessive salary supplements; and (b) allow the recruitment of
qualified professionals under special contract. Various donors have also
been financing salary supplements and contract staff under a variety of
arrangements. These ad hoc measures have raised a number of issues: salary
supplements are applied unevenly between ministries and among projects;
they are not necessarily related to performance, and have been granted on a
regular basis as entitlements rather than inducements for higher
performance. The proliferation of supplements has made the administration
of the wage bill complex and their budgetary impact difficult to control.
As far as the employment of contractual staff is concerned, no clear
guidelines have been given to ensure their effective use.



-5-
Administrative Assessment
2.09     The preparation and implementation of the 1985-92 adjustment
program brought about renewed urgency within Government to rationalize the
responsibility, structures, operating procedures and staffing patterns of
the core economic institutions. Administrative reform priorities were
established and IDA was invited in 1985 to carry out an administrative
assessment to examine key public administration issues. This assessment
concluded that, although Senegal's administrative system is relatively well
structured, these structures are overly complex and rigid, giving rise to
compartmentization, overlapping responsibilities, and fragmentation of
decision-making. As a result, coordination of policy formulation and
implementation has suffered. Moreover, an excessive preoccupation with the
legality of administrative acts and insufficient concern with the
tiaeliness and effectiveness of their impact have led to a pyramiding of
largely ineffective controls that delay execution and add to costs. In
addition, the Senegalese administrative culture was not results-oriented
and failed to reward initiative; it tended to function exclusively on the
basis of status, based on educational level and seniority, and on excessive
compliance with regulations, deference to superiors and loyalty to mentors.
2.10     IDA recommended that an in-depth review of the existing civil
service policy framework be carried out, with a view to updating existing
rules and regulations, allowing Government agencies to attract and retain
the best elements, redeploying and giving appropriate training to existing
staff, and making other personnel decisions based on a clear view of the
personnel situation, which does not seem to exist at the present time. It
also recommended the reorganization and revitalization of central personnel
agencies, so that these agencies are able to carry out their support role
in Government's economic development efforts. In particular, the
establishment of a computerized data processing system to replace the
existing manual system, which is both slow and error-prone, was
recommended.
2.11     Based on the conclusions of the administrative assessment and the
lessons learned during the process of effecting structural and
administrative reforms, the Government announced in 1986, under its current
economic program supported by SAL III, a number of administrative reform
measures. These are reflected in its latest Letter of Development Policy,
dated April 16, 1987, and include: institutionalizing a mechanism for the
programming and budgeting of public investment, continued reform of the
management of the parastatal sector, improving public debt management,
strengthening public finance management, with a particular emphasis on
increasing revenues, and improving economic information management.
Parallel efforts were deployed by Government to strengthen the capacity of
various agencies in the Finance and Planning Ministries responsible for
implementing the policy reforms. At the same time, the Government took
steps to strengthen tax and customs administration, and the institutional
arrangements in charge of monitoring the structural adjustment program.
Lessons Learned
2.12     A critical examination of early reform program implementation
highlig} ts the underlying weaknesses in these first attempts, namely that:



-6-
(a) the reforms lacked an overall strategy and failed to tackle
simultaneously the three basic management functions, namely
planning, personnel administration and financial management.
Indeed, the 1972 attempt to establish a development capacity
in field administration did not materialize because the
resource management systems were not geared to support this
new goal. The 1976 reform of central ministries suffered
from lack of a reform strategy since it addressed
indiscriminately all ministries, regardless of the role they
were to play. The reform strategy failed either to include
the identification of development objectives and the
formulation of appropriate policies and programs, or to
provide the human and financial resources necessary to
support the implementation of the program;
(b) the reforms were not designed as an integral part of an
overall strategy for the country's development. In the 1972
reform effort, there was no operational development strategy
to direct the reform to specific priority areas. The 1976
reform aimed primarily at cutting the wage bill and reducing
public employment but its focus was on the entire government
structure and not on specific programs identified in the
adjustment process. This entailed excessive human and
financial demands on the Government; yet at the same time, it
was hard to see the cost-effectiveness of the effort. To be
meaningful and relevant, the administrative reforms should
have been tailored to the on-going needs and strategy defined
by Government;
(c) the reforms did not address behavioral aspects even though
the key problems with the Senegalese administration lie less
with the formal structures than with the attitudes and
behavior of the people operating in these structures. While
the negative attitude toward the civil service is largely a
result of socio-political factors, behavior is also
significantly conditioned by the organizational setting in
which the public employees operate. To restore the ideals of
the classical bureaucratic model on which the Senegalese
administration is patterned, reforms are needed to: (i)
reestablish the spirit of accountability by updating existing
administrative codes; (ii) limit the scope for dlrosretionary
decision making that exists; and (iii) make specific
improvements in the work procedures and methods, staff
training, working conditions, and the civil service
compensation and incentive policies; and
(d) the reforms did not address effectively the issue of building
a permanent capability in the existing agencies, by tackling
the problem of the flight of qualified staff and the
difficulty of recruiting new ones due to low salaries and the
lack of relevant civil service position schedules. As a
result, the formulation of public policies and their
implementation were carried out with excessive reliance on



foreign expertise, which now may have reached a point of
diminishing returns. The 'high costs involved, the resentment
on the part of the Senegalese, and the shifting needs in the
implementation phase that Senegal has now reached in its
reform program, make external technical assistance less
effective.
Re-orientation of the Reform Program
2.13     On the basis of lessons learned from its past efforts, the
Government has recently turned to a new orientation of its admiristrative
reform, taking into account the priority needs for structural   justment
and the recommendations of the Bank's administrative assessmenL. At the
same time, it recognizes that a long term approach needs to be adopted,
especially to internalize the reforms. This new orientation encompasses
both economic policy and administrative aspects. With respect to economic
policies, the emphasis is now on strategic planning with a global, long-
term perspective, incorporating the social dimension, and projecting the
development scenarios for 20 years. With respect to administrative
policies, the new orientation contains a number of innovations. For the
first time, it incorporates a focus on improving the strategic function of
planning and investment programming while at the same time strengthening
the financial management and personnel management functions. The focus on
the Ministries of Planning, Economy and Finance, and Civil Service and
Labor, and on specific units in sectoral and regional administrations
concerned with these three strategic functions, helps ensure that actions
by key agencies are mutually supportive and designed to minimize disruption
by any future changes in government structures. Moreover, the reform
program is tied to the implementation of a clearly defined economic and
financial adjustment program and considered an integral part of the overall
development effort. It also includes efforts to rehabilitate the personnel
management system and to update the civil service rules and regulations, to
resolve more satisfactorily the wage and incentive problem. Finally, it
tackles the issue of the management of technical assistance and
internalization of policy formulation and implementation, through careful
injection of external expertise only where needed combined with the direct
involvement and participation of local staff with proper training and
incentives.
Implications of the New Orientation
2.14     The challenge is now to translate this new orientation into
concrete action programs.  To this end, the Ministries of Planning and
Cooperation, Economy and Finance, and Civil Service and Labor have each
prepared a five-year action program. The proposed actions deal with: (a)
the implementation of the existing adjustment program, which includes
policy measures already under implementation (e.g. price liberalization),
those for which implementation has started (e.g. public investment program
(PIP), public employment) and those that remain to be implemented (e.g.
administration of new fiscal policies); and (b) the design of new policies
in the areas of social implications of adjustment, long-term development
perspectives, and technical assistance management. With respect to
existing programs, there is a need to strengthen the capacity of agencies
concerned with monitoring on-going implementation, consolidating new
efforts, starting new actions



and, at the same time, ensuring their sustainability. With respect to new
policy areas, there is a need for more in-depth studies to identify
critical issues and formulate related policies and programs that extend the
adjustment process.
2.15     The immediate concern of Government is to pursue the
implementation of its long-term adjustment program as reflected in its
latest Letter of Development policy. Specifically, the efforts are aimed
at:
(a) improving the efficiency of the administration while reducing
its costs. A competent and motivated c'vil service is the
key for the successful implementation of the economic reform
program, yet public finance constraints prevent the increase
of personnel outlays. The challenge is to find solutions
which would be consistent with both the goals and the
constraints;
(b)  improving the efficiency of public investments.  Analysis of
past results has highlighted the poor yield of public
investment as a major cause of lagging economic performance
and inability to service the debt. The challenge is to
strengthen the planning and investment programming system so
that the quality of public investment will improve;
(c) improving public debt management. Public debt service has
been consuming an increasing share of budget revenues and its
relation to export earnings has become untenable. Important
efforts have been made to improve its management and to
reduce its adverse impact on the economy. These efforts
should continue;
(d) improving resource mobilization. Fiscal performance in
recent years has failed to match economic growth. The latest
tax and tariff reforms introduced measures to address this
issue. Yet much remains to be done to strengthen tax and
customs assessment and collection and to pursue reform in
this area;
(e) improving economic statistics. The shortage of reliable and
timely economic statistics is hampering the formulation and
monitoring of appropriate economic and financial policies.
This shortage is particularly critical in a period of rapid
structural adjustment;
(f) strengthening the monitoring of the structural adiustment
program and the ability of Government to formulate economic
and financial policies. While the Government has succeeded
in finding interim solutions to these issues, a more
perwanent institutional capacity is needed; and
(g) last but not least, addressing the social dimension of
adjustment, particularly the impact of adjustment on the
least favored segments of Senegalese society.



- 9 -
IDA and Other Donor Support for Public Sector Management
2.16     IDA and other major donors have long been associated with
Senegal's efferts to address its critical economic and financial problems.
Starting in the 1970s, the dialogue on economic issues has increasingly
focused on public sector management issues. One of the first priorities
was the public enterprise sector. A Parastatal Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 764-SE) was approved in 1977, followed by a second project
(Cr. 1398-SE) approved in 1982. This latter project supported the
preparation and implementation of the Government's parastatal sector reform
that was adopted in 1985 and subsequently became a key component of the SAL
II and SAL III operations. Lessons learned from these projects,
particularly the need to provide technical support at the same time as
changing the policy framework and the need to take adequate time to
internalize these policy changes, have helped to shape this project.
2.17     The Bank's strategy for Senegal calls ior increased support for
improving public sector management and effecting institutional development,
particularly in the other key sectors of the structural adjustment program.
In the broad area of macro-economic management, the Technical Assistance
Project for Economic and Financial Planning (Cr. 1061-SE) was approved in
1980. This credit, now almost completely disbursed, has been primarily
used to identify and support key policy reforms under the on-going SAL
operations. Since 1985, it began to support Government to develop and
implement a reform in the public investment programming mechanism and the
rehabilitation of the external debt monitoring system. It has also
financed other SAL-related studies and activities, including workshops that
have served to prepare the present project.
2.18     Additional support has also been provided to key sectors by IDA.
Support for sector planning and investment programming functions are
provided under the primary education sector loan, the industrial sector
loan, as well as other operations in the transportation, agriculture,
health and urban sectors.
2.19     The Bank's assistance complements that of other donors who are
also supporting Senegal's adjustment effort. Other donors' on-going or
planned actions include: (a) French technical assistance in investment
analysis, budget forecasting, and methodologies for national accounting;
(b) USAID assistance in tax administration and population census; (c) the
IMF program of tax and customs regulations; (d) the UNDP program of macro
planning, monitoring structural adjustment programs, and coordination of
technical assistance; and (e) joint UNDP, USAID and IDA assistance for
carrying out a national population census. The proposed Development
Management Project, by expanding the institutional focus of the previous TA
project and providing an overall, intersectoral framework, would complement
and strengthen the activities supported by the Bank and these other donors.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
3.01     The project would support the first five years of Government's
reform program designed to improve its administrative capacity. Since this
objective cannot be realized without a competent and motivated civil
service, the modernization of the civil service system is an integral part
of the reform program. Specific project actions would be integrated into
the current programs of Government's central agencies responsible for
overall economic and financial management with a particular emphasis on
those bodies critical to the adjustment program; they would focus on
improving structures, administrative procedures and methods, and staff
capabilities. Actions, in keeping with the overall program, would be
adjusted over time, to ensure that they respond to defined needs. While
external consultants would be engaged to carry out non-permanent tasks
requiring specialized expertise, Government would make an effort to
redeploy existing personnel and recruit national staff under contract.
Careful selection of counterparts and on-the-job training will, at the same
time, build up a pool of qualified candidates from which Government can
choose for permanent positions once the project ends.
Project Objectives
3.02     The primary objective of the project is to assist Government to
build up the internal capabilities for strategic planning, financial
management and personnel management in the relevant agencies within the
Ministries of Plan and Cooperation, Economy and Finance, and Civil Service
and Labor. In particular, the project would support action programs
prepared by these agencies to carry out the tasks related to the
implementation of the on-going structural adjustment program. Specific
project objectives, corresponding to the priorities set out in the
Government of Senegal,s (GOS) Letter of Development Policy, are to:
(a) establish a strategic planning capacity, through producing
reliable and timely statistics, producing data on constraints
and potentials of the economy, consolidating the
implementation of the investment programming mechanism, and
preparing long-term alternative development scenarios for
Senegal;
(b) further strengthen economic and financial management through
introducing measures to improve tax and customs
administration and collection, consolidating public debt
management, reinforcing and monitoring current economic and
financial policies, and formulating new policies in these
areas;
(c) incorporate the social dimension into the adjustment process
through introducing a system for regular production of
standards of living and household budget data, and producing
data on socio-economic aspects; and



(d)  rehabilitate the personnel management function through
modernizing personnel data processing system, strengthening
personnel administration agencies, and revising personnel
policies.
Proiect Description
3.03     The project consists of four main components, as follows : (a)
Establishment of a New National Planning System which includes: consolidating
and completing the establishment of the investment programming and budgeting
system; starting an improved process of formulating development policies; and
strengthening central planning structures; (b) Strengthening Economic and
Financial Management which includes: improving the mobilization of fiscal
resources; consolidating and fine-tuning the public debt monitoring system;
rehabilitating the statistical system; and improving the formulation and
monitoring of economic and financial policies; (c) Incorporation of the
Social Dimension in Adiustment Programs which includes: carrying out a
permanent survey of the standards of living; and conducting socio-economic
studies to prepare poverty-alleviation projects; and (d) Modernization of the
Civil Service System which includes: upgrading the capacity of personnel
administration agencies; and improving civil service policies. In addition,
the project would include a Project Administration Unit (PAU).
3.04     Project financing covers: (i) national consultants under contracts
of less than one year as well as international consultants to carry out
studies, develop analytical tools, and train national staff; (ii) overseas
and in-country training and workshops; (iii) vehicles and equipment
(including computer equipment and materials); (iv) office refurbishing for
the Civil Service Department, the Central Payroll Agency, the Statistics
Department and the Debt and Investment Department; (v) maintenance and
incremental operating costs; (vi) a limited number of national staff hired
under contract during the project period; and (vii) performance incentives
for staff financed under the Government's budgetary contribution. The
adoption of criteria and procedures for using the funds earmarked for studies
under each component and recruiting contractual staff acceptable to IDA is a
condition of disbursement against these items. The adoption of a sstem for
administering performance incentives is a condition of effectiveness.
3.05     In particular, the project will support extensive staff training
under various forms: attendance of regular courses in-country and overseas,
study tours to observe similar experiences in other countries, and on-the-job
training with short-term support from external consultants. The Government
would contract with local and international training institutions to develop
courses responding to the needs of the agencies. In addition, the project
would also support workshops and policy seminars to allow exchange of ideas
and dissemination of information among public agencies and between them and
the private sector. In parallel with these short-term actions, Government
would also review its training policy to incorporate the training dimension
into the existing personnel management system.



- 12 -
Establishment of a New National Planning System (US$3.8 million)
3.06     In support of the Government's commitment under SAL III to improve
the efficiency of resource utilization, the project would support the
strengthening of planning structures (US$.9 million) through: (i) a review of
the structures and procedures of the Planning and Cooperation Ministry (MPC)
and its staff capacity and an assessment of the planning capabilities of
selected sectoral ministries; (ii) the gradual transfer of the responsibility
for project evaluation and preparation to sectoral ministries; and (iii)
upgrading sectoral and regional planning capabilities by creating new
planning units or improving existing ones through staff reassignment and
training. The review would lead to a clear definition of responsibility
between the MPC and sectoral ministries, improved internal organization,
procedures and staffing for MPC and better coordination between MPC and
sectoral ministries. It should also help to integrate better the planning
function with the financial processes of budgeting, and thereby establish
closer links between MPC and the Ministry of Fconomy and Finance. About
eight months of national and six months of international consultant services
would be provided to help carry out the review and train staff in the new
structures and procedures.
3.07     To consolidate the mechanism for investment programming and
budgeting (US$1.2 million), the project would support the expansion of the
three-year rolling investment programming system to cover project evaluation,
selection, and physical as well as financial monitoring. MPC would develop
analytical tools for formulating a macro-economic framework, improve project
identification and evaluation, train staff in macro-economic analysis,
forecasting and simulation, and develop guidelines and procedures for
selecting and programming investments, and for their monitoring, and
evaluation. These actions would lead to the establishment by 1990 of a
permanent mechanism for preparation and implementation of rolling three-year
investment programs. Effort will also be made to address the issue of
generating feasible project ideas and creating a stock of sound projects from
which Government can choose for its investment. About 30 months of national
and 5 months of international consultant services would be provided.
3.08     To develop MPC's capability to formulate long-term development
policies (US$1.7 million), the project would finance prospective studies to
assess the potential and constraints of the economy and society, with a view
to helping Government formulate a long-term, global development strategy for
Senegal. This strategy would serve as a basis for formulating sectoral and
intersectoral policies, to ensure coherence among these policies and
consistency with long-term interests of Senegal. About 30 months of national
and 5 months of international consultant services, with specialization in
macro-economic analysis and extensive experience in other disciplines and in
prospective studies, would be funded to develop appropriate analytical tools
and train national staff. A separate UNDP project is to finance technical
assistance to support MPC in the areas of long-term perspectives, forecasting
and simulation tools, human resource planning, and regional planning. French
assistance includes financing of a resident economist and a volunteer
providing advice in project evaluation and monitoring.



- 13 -
Improvement of Economic and Financial Management (US$5.3 million)
3.09     In line with the Government's intention to restore its public
finances under SAL III, the project would support the mobilization of
additional fiscal revenues (US$2.2 million), through helping tax and customs
agencies. For the Customs Department (DGD), support would be provided to
increase the efficiency of customs operations and control of fraud by: (i)
introducing computerized data processing techniques; (ii) improving knowledge
of imported goods values; (iii) training customs inspectors; and (iv)
increasing the mobility of customs control brigades. About sixteen months of
national consultant services in data processing systems would be provided.
For the Department of Land and Internal Revenue (DGID), the project would
support the expansion of the tax base and the improvement in tax collection
through the provision of: (i) consultant services to review the proposed
delegation of decision-making authority to field offices, tax filing
procedures and forms, and to study the possibility of expanding the
application of the value-added tax, and additional use of modern data
processing techniques; (ii)  micro-computers; (iii) vehicles and land survay
equipment; (iv) extensive staff training and public information to
disseminate the new tax code. Project support would complement the
assistance provided by IDA's Technical Assistance for Urban Management and
Rehabilitation (Cr. 1458-SE) and by USAID for land surveys in two towns.
About 9 months of international and 2 months of national consultant services
would be provided to DGID.
3.10     Responding to another key area under SAL III, the project would
assist the Debt Division to further improve and consolidate the management of
public debt (US$1.2 million) by: (a) expanding its monitoring system to cover
short-term external public debt, external private debt, domestic public debt,
as well as external grants and Government guaranteed debts; (b) increasing
its analytical capacity to forecast debt service and commitments; (c)
producing regular reports on the debt situation, data on financial
implementation of externally financed investments, and analysis of debt
impact; and (d) providing analysis for the formulation of borrowing
strategies. Project financing would cover 50 months of national and 17
months of international consultant services to refine the existing monitoring
system, develop analytical tools for debt projections and analyze borrowing
strategies.
3.11     The project would support the Statistics Department's (DS) efforts
to rehabilitate the statistical system (US$1.2 million) by: (a) developing
and applying methodologies for producing rapid provisional figures for
national accounts; (b) accelerating the production of national accounts; (c)
evaluating users' needs and data produced by administrative agencies; (d)
harmonizing codification and updating legislation regarding the collection of
statistics; (e) establishing a central data base on enterprises; and (f)
carrying out various surveys of the informal sector. Financing under the
project would include 12 months of short-term international consultants to
develop methodologies and procedures and to train DS staff.
3.12     To improve the formulation and monitoring of economic and financial
policies (US$0.7 million), the project would support the establishment of a
study unit in MEF responsible for providing technical support to various
working groups established by MEF to review policy issues, each group under



- 14 -
the coordination of a cabinet advisor. The establishment of this unit will
be carried out in two steps. During the first phase the unit will operate
within the Ministry's cabinet.  The permanent status and location of the unit
will be determined by the Minister of MEF by March 31, 1989, at the latest,
at which point the Unit would be transferred with terms of reference and
composition acceptable to IDA. Agreement to this effect was obtained during
xegotiations. About six months of consultant services will be provided to
help the working groups develop the necessary tools in specialized areas.
Funds will also be provided for policy review seminars.
Incorporation of the Social Dimension in Adjustment Programs (US$4.5 million)
3.13     The project would help set up within the Statistics Department (DS)
periodic standard of living surveys (US$3.9 million) in order to assess the
changing conditions of various social groups, with particular focus on the
poor. The surveys will be directed by the DS' Survey Division
which will designate a group of qualified staff to form a management team
within the Survey Division composed of a data collecting section, an analysis
section, and a special survey section. A quick disbursement mechanism for
the standard of living survey would be established within the project
administration system to facilitate the funding of survey activities.
Project financing would include 20 months of national and 12 months of
international consultant services to train staff and assist in carrying out
surveys and data analysis and to prepare reports on the evolution of living
conditions.
3.14     In addition, the project would support a program of in-depth socio-
economic studies (US$0.6 million) to identify problems associated with
adjustment measures, with a view to preparing programs and projects to
alleviate any adverse effects. A Users' Committee would be established,
including representatives of the main ministries concerned and responsible
for, inter alia: (a) adopting criteria and procedures for the selection and
financing of the studies; (b) ensuring that the design and implementation of
the questionnaires and studies adequately reflect the needs of the concerned
ministries; and (c) monitoring such surveys and studies and publicizing their
results in order to contribute to the identification of projects. About 36
consultant services would be funded to assist in the implementation of this
component. The establishment of the Users' Committee with terms of reference
and composition acceptable to IDA is a condition of disbursement of this
component.
Modernization of the Civil Service System (US$5.7 million)
3.15     Improvements to the structures and procedures of the Civil Service
Department (DFP) and the Central Payroll Agency (SCS) (US$4.2 million) are
being carried out with the assistance of a management consulting firm (CGI),
starting under PPF financing. The improvement program entails: (a) defining
a more operational organizational structure for the two agencies; (b)
establishing systematic communication lines between them and sectoral
ministries; (c) introducing modern data processing methods for monitoring
personnel; (d) installing a computerized central personnel data base to
replace the existing inefficient, error-prone manual system; and (e) defining
a training and development program for personnel staff. Project financing
covers about 180 months of national and 50 months of international consultant
services.



- 15 -
3.16     The project would also support MFP's effort to review the current
civil service policy framework (US$1.5 million), with a view to adjusting and
adapting them to the short-term needs for staff redeployment and retirement,
and the long-term needs for training and recruitment of hi4hly qualified
staff. This review would lead to (a) a definition of measures to improve
current practices; (b) updating of existing laws and regulatiors; and (c)
consolidation and dissemination of personnel procedures. About 120 months of
national and 30 months of international consultant services will be funded to
strengthen the HFP's study unit which will provide staff support to various
working groups established by MFP to review specific policy issues. Together,
the improvement of the personnel agencies and the review of existing civil
service legal and policy framework would provide the required information for
the Government to take appropriate personnel actions, such as reduction-in-
staff, reassignment, salary increases, and recruitment of qualified
candidates in new skill areas.
3.17    In particular, the project would help Government overcome the
shortage of skilled professionals in critical areas (e.g. macro-economic
analysis, financial management, information technology) of the civil service
by tackling the issue of salary supplements and contract staff both in its
long-term and short-term aspects. First, for the long term, the project
would support a thorough review by Government of the current system of salary
supplements and contract arrangements, the ultimate goal being their
elimination and the development of appropriate schemes of service; the latter
would be designed to attract and retain qualified professionals, with a
classification system which provide for highly specialized skills, and career
paths linked to performance. Second, for the short term, the project would
support the improvement of the current system with reduction of its perverse
effects through the re-deployment of qualified staff to fill needed critical
positions, and the allocation of performance bonuses in lieu of salary
supplements now granted as entitlements. For those positions which cannot be
filled by redeployment within the civil service, contract staff would be
used. These contracts would be administered as a pilot effort designed to
harmonize the current practices between the agencies involved in the project,
and it would involve an analysis of needs, the preparation of job
descriptions, and the application of well defined criteria for selection and
performance evaluation to ensure transparency and objectivity. The criteria
and procedures are outlined in Annex I.
Project Administration (USS1.0 million)
3.18     In order to plan, coordinate, and monitor project actions, financing
will be provided to set up and maintain a project administration unit in the
Planning Ministry. The project would provide about 25 months of national
consultant services to help set-up a project monitoring system, prepare
procurement documents for various components, establish a system for managing
project contract staff, vehicles, and equipment, and carry out annual audits
of project accounts. It would also finance the operating costs of the PAU,
including the salaries of the Administrator and the five staff members.



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
4.01     Total project costs are estimated at US$24.7 million (CFAF 6,838
million). This amount includes taxes and duties of US$3.7 million (CFAF
1,019 million) which will be financed by the Government. The estimated
foreign exchange component is US$13.4 million (CFAP 3,712 million), or 54
percent of total costs. Details are provided in Annex II and sumiarized
below:
Estimated Costs
X Foreign
Local   Forei&n   Total   Exchange
-------- US$9000 ------
A. National Planning System
Strengthen Central Planning           421        466        887      53
Structures
Consolidate Investment Mechanism      805        393     1,198       33
Improve Development Policy          1,018        678     1,696       40
Formulation
B. Economic and Financial Management
Mobilize Fiscal Resources              932     1,318      2,250      59
Hanage Public Debt                     560       665     1,225       54
Rehabilitate Statistical System        367       811     1,178       69
Improve Policy Formulation and        379        276        655      42
Monitoring
C. Social Dimension of Adiustment
Establish Permanent Survey
Capacity                           1,884      1,995    3,879        51
Conduct Socio-Economic Studies          86       491       577       85
D. Modernization of Civil Service System
Rehabilitate Personnel Agencies    1,737       2,448    4,185        58
Improve Policy Framework              582        946    1,528        62
E. Project Administration                   628       403    1,031        39
Baseline Costs                      9,399    10,890   20,289         54
Physical Contingencies                273        665      938        71
Price Contingencies                 1,665      1,821    3,486        52
Total Proiect Costs                11,337    13,376   24,713         54
.. min                           mm
4.02      Base cost estimates are in December 1987 prices.  Physical
contingencies amounting to 4 percent (15 percent for civil works and
studies, and 10 percent for operating costs) are included. Price



- 17 -
contingencies have been estimated at 17 percent, calculated on the basis of
the following estimates of annual inflation rates (in percent):
1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994
Local             5.0   5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0    5.0
Foreign          11.0   3.0      3.0     3.0      1.0      1.0     1.0    1.0
Financing Plan
4.03     The proposed IDA credit of US$17.0 million equivalent would finance
approximately 80 percent of total project costs net of duties and taxes;
this covers US$12.0 million of foreign costs and US$5.0 million of local
costs. Two PPFs of US$750,000 each have financed project preparation and
start-up activities, including a study to rationalize the structures and
procedures of the civil service and central payroll agencies; and consultant
services to help develop methodologies for investment project evaluation and
selection. The Government's net contribution of US$2.0 million equivalent
would finance performance incentives for civil servants, operating costs,
and an increasing share of the costs of contractual staff. Co-financing of
the social dimension of adjustment component, estimated at US$2.0 million,
would be provided by a grant from CIDA. Meeting all conditions for
cofinancing by CIDA is a condition of disbursement for the SDA component.
The proposed financing plan is set out below:
Proposed Proiect Financing
IDA     CIDA    GOS    Total       Z IDA
Contribution
--------US$ million-------------
Contractual Staff                    3.0      0.3     0.7      4.0         75
Consultant Services                  4.0      0.7      -       4.7         85
Training                             1.4      0.4      -       1.8         77
Studies                              1.0      0.6      -       1.6         62
Civil Works                          0.7       -       -       0.7        100
Vehicles, Equipment
and Furniture                        4.8       -       -       4.8       100
Maintenance and
Incremental Operating
Costs                                1.2       -      0.2      1.4        86
Staff Incentives                      -        -      1.1      1.1        -
PAU Operating Costs                  0.9       -       -       0.9       100
Total             17.0     2.0      2.0*   21.0         80
* excluding taxes and duties of US$3.7 million equivalent.



- 18 -
Procurement
4.04     Procurement includes a limited amount of civil works and purchase of
goods as well as services in accordance with Bank guidelineet procurement will
be centralized to the extent possible through the PAU. Civil works funded
under the project will consist of refurbishing existing offices for an amount
that is unlikely to attract foreign bidders and therefore would be contracted
under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Consultant
services would be subject to Bank guidelines. Within these guidelines,
efforts will be made to maximize the use of local capacities. A detailed list
of estimated consultant services under the project (total of about 350 person-
months of national and 150 person-months of international service) is attached
as Annex III.
4.05     Packages of vehicles and equipment valued at US$100,000 equivalent or
more will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to Bank guidelines. Subsequent changes totalling less than 15
percent of the value of the contract would not need further review. Items
valued at less than US$100,000 will be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Bidding packages for goods totalling
over US$S0,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation. Minor items costing US$30,000 or less, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$600,000, will be purchased following local or international
shopping procedures by obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers.
Goods and services procured under co-financing are included under the other
category, whereas payment of contractual staff and incentives are to be based
on Government's civil service regulations. A summary of procurement is
presented below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
Procurement Component         ICB      LCB    Other    N.A.   Total
----------(US$ million)---------------
Contractual Staff                                       4.0      4.0
(3.0)   (3.0)
Consultant Services                             4.7              4.7
(4.0)            (4.0)
Training                                        1.8              1.8
(1.4)            (1.4)
Studies                                         1.6              1.6
(1.0)            (1.0)
Civil Works                            0.7                       0.7
(0.7)                    (0.7)
Vehicles, Equipment,         4.8                                 4.8
Furniture                  (4.8)                               (4.8)
Maintenance and                                         1.4      1.4
Incremental Operating                                 (1.2)   (1.2)
Costs
Staff Incentives                                        1.1      1.1
( -)   (- )
PAU Operating Costs                                     0.9      0.9
(0.9)   (0.9)
Total                        4.8       0.7      8.1     7.4    21.0
(4.8)     (0.7)  ( 6.4)   (5.1)  (17.0)
a/  Contingencies and expenditures financed by the PPF are included in the
amounts shown. IDA contribution is indicated in parentheses.



- 19 .
Disbursements
4.06     The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed against the following
categories: 100 percent of the costs of consultants (local and foreign),
except for the SDA component; 100 percent of total expenditures for civil
works, vehicles, equipment, office furniture, supplies and materials; 100
percent of total expenditures for training except for the SDA component; 100
percent of total expenditures for studies except for the SDA component; lO0
percent of PAU operating costs; and 75 percent of incremental maintenance and
operating costs. For the contractual staff, IDA financing would be on a
declining basis (except for the SDA component), with 100 percent of total
costs up to US$550,000; 90 percent between US$550,001 and US$1,362,000; 80
percent between US$1,062,001; and finally 50 percent above US$1,507,000. A
disbursement schedule is attached as Annex IV. The disburseme7tt schedule
follows the standard seven-year disbursement profile for technical assistance
projects in the Africa region.
4.07     A Special Account of US$250,000 (CFAF 67 million) is being
established under the PPF at a commercial bank. It will be brought up to
US$700,000 (CFAF 187 million) upon credit effectiveness. These funds will be
managed by the PAU to cover project expenditures and replenished by IDA on the
basis of eligible aggregated withdrawal requests. Replenishment applications
would be submitted on a monthly basis. Payments will be fully documented
except for payments against contracts of less than US$20,000, all training,
operating costs, and contractual staff which would be disbursed against
statements of expenditures with the underlying documentation held available
for inspection by IDA supervision missions. Should any disbursements be made
from the special account, which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government
would deposit the corresponding amount in the special account.
4.08     Government Counterpart Funds.  To ensure that Government budgetary
contribution to the project is made availahle when needed, the Government will
establish a counterpart fund account to finance expenditures incurred under
the project. Government would deposit at the beginning of each quarter the
amount necessary to finance Governiient's share of local expenditure, as
identified in the work programs and adjusted periodically. These funds will
be disbursed against: 15 percent of maintenance and incremental operating
costs, 100 percent of performance incentives, and a share of the cost on
contractual staff, starting with 10 percent of the total cost for the third
year; 20 percent for the fourth year; 40 percent for the fifth year; and the
full amount of any subsequent payments. Establishment of such an account and
the first deposit of US$50,000 equivalent is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
Accounts and Audits
4.09     The Project Administration Unit will maintain separate accounts for
ail expenditures funded under the credit. Project accounts will be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an audit of
statements of expenditures and of the special accounts. The audit reports, of
such scope and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request, will be
submitted to IDA no later than six months following the end of the
government's fiscal year. Agreement to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.



- 20 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01     Responsibility for implementing the project will rest with those
agencies under which specific actions fall: the Planning and Cooperation
Ministry (MPC) for the Planning and Investment component and the study part
of the Social Adjustment Dimension component; the Economy and Finance
Ministry (MEF) for the Economic and Financial Management component
including the survey part of the Social Adjustment Dimension component; and
the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor (MFPT) for the Civil Service
component (Annex V).
Project Coordination and Administration
5.02     Overall Coordination and Monitoring.  Coordination and monitoring
of project actions will be ensured by the Inter-ministerial Committee
responsible for  i-< monitering of the SAL program (CICS).  This Committee,
created in 198'. i  ,aded by the President of the Republic and includes
the Ministers ci" Pz.iing and Cooperation, Economy and Finance, and Civil
Service and Labor, 'PC acts as the secretariat of the Committee. The
Government has confirmed this coordination mechanism. The CICS is to be
responsible for approving the work programs, monitoring implementation, and
evaluating achievements.
5.03     Coordination within each component.  Since each component involves
several agencies under the jurisdiction of the relevant ministry, a
coordinator will be appointed by each participating ministry to monitor
implementation of project actions undertaken by various agencies involved
in the component. The Government has already designated the coordinator
for each ministry.
5.04     Project Administration.  The PAU, headed by a Project
Administrator, is to provide overall administrative support and to monitor
implementation. The Project Administrator will be assisted by an
administrative assistant, an accountant, and three support staff. The
Project Administrator is to be responsible for:
(a) ensuring compliance with the Credit Agreement regarding the
preparation and executic.  of annual work programs, hiring of
consultants and contractual staff, acquisition of vehicles
and equipment, the application of criteria and procedures for
paying staff incentives, and the use of study funds;
(b) ensuring coordination among implementating agencies and
between the implementing agencies and IDA and cofinanciers;
(c) helping the implementing agencies prepare their annual work
programs and consolidating these work programs into project
annual action programs;
(d) assisting with the procurement of goods and services to be
financed under the project;



- 21 -
(e) preparing disbursement requests;
(f) maintaining project accounts and administering the special
accounts; and
(g) preparing semi-annual progress monitoring reports and
providing support to the evaluation of project results.
Government has already selected a Project Administrator, acceptable to IDA.
His official appointment was confirmed at negotiations.
Annual Work Programs
5.05     The project is to be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs prepared by each participating agency to serve as flexible
planning, implementation and monitoring tools. Each annual work program
will include: (i) an evaluation of the previous year's performance; (ii) a
statement of monitorable objectives to be pursued and a description and
timetable of the activities to be carried out to achieve those objectives;
(iii) detailed budgets and financing plans as well as a procurement program
and timetable; and (iv) staffing and training plans. The implementing
agencies are responsible for formulating and implementing their own work
programs, subject to the review by IDA and approval by the Coordinating
Committee. Draft annual work programs will be submitted to IDA for review
by October of the previous year. Government has submitted the first year
work program for each agency up to December 31, 1989.   Agreement on these
programs and on the annual review of subsequent work programs by October of
each year was obtained during negotiations.
Reporting. Monitoring and Accountability
5.06     Progress Reports.  Reports on project implementation, summarizing
progress achieved, difficulties encountered, and changes or adjustments
made, will be submitted quarterly by each participating ministry and agency
to the Chairman of the Coordination Committee. The Committee will meet to
review progress, take appropriate actions, and assign responsibility for
follow-up. The agenda and minutes of the Committee meetings will be
prepared by the Project Administrator, and transmitted to IDA. Procedures
for monitoring project physical implementation and financial situation will
be established with the help of a consultant. Adoption of a management
system for proiect monitoring, including the use of vehicles and equipment.
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.07     Completion Report.  Project completion is scheduled for December
31, 1993, with the closing date for the credit June 30, 1994. At the end
of the project, each implementing agency will prepare a report evaluating
the results of the component under responsibility. These reports will be
consolidated by the Project Administration Unit and submitted to Government
and IDA no later than six months after the Credit closing date. A list of
selected indicators of project success is given in Annex VI.



- 22 -
Status of Prolect Implementation
5.08     The proposed credit is expected to becoae effective by September
1988. Since most project actions relate to or.-going programs in the
concerned ministries, structures and staff already exist to ensure a
prompt start-up of the project. Where the project aims at consolidating
progress achieved under the previous IDA Technical Assistance project, as
in the case of public investment programming and debt management,
consultants are already in place and most of the staff have been trained.
In those areas where new actions are to begin, PPF funds have been used to
finance start-up activities, such as consultants to establish the project
monitoring system, define computer specifications, and train national
staff. In all cases, detailed work programs have been prepared by the
agencies concerned, and the timetable as well as the means required have
been identified allowing most project activities to begin in July 1988 or
earlier. A project implementation schedule is given in Annex VII.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01     Expected short term project benefits include:  (a) better
information on the number of public employees, their location and
qualifications; on the potential and constraints of the economy; and on the
economic, financial, and social impact of recent public policies; (b)
documented methodologies on investment evaluation, selection, monitoring;
(c) simplified administrative procedures and guidelines for financial and
personnel management; (d) enhanced capacity to process and disseminate
economic and social data; (e) increased number of highly qualified staff in
critical areas; and (f) effective mechanisms of coordination within central
agencies, and between ministries and with the private sector. The expected
long-term benefits would be: (a) increased budgetary revenues; (b) better
control of the wage bill and a more balanced ratio of personnel to
operating costs; (c) a permanent analytical capacity in the core
ministries; and (d) greater capacity of these ministries to prepare
technical analyses of policy issues and to monitor the implementation of
public policies. In addition, an intangible, yet significant benefit would
be an enhanced confidence on the part of the Senegalese in their own
capacity to resolve their economic problems, thus establishing an
institutional basis for sustaining policy reforms.
6.02     The risks of the project are of three types: (i) poor civil
service response might make reform implementation difficult; (ii) managing
the reform process might exceed local capacity; and (iii) it might prove
difficult to identify acceptable technical assistance with the required
expertise. The first risk would be minimized by the fact that the project
would provide for recruitment of qualified contract staff and performance
incentives to staff involved in carrying out project tasks. The second risk
would be reduced by adjusting the pace of reform to absorptive capacity
through the annual work programming mechanism and by setting up an
effective coordination, administration and monitoring system.  To minimize



- 23 -
the third risk, the project would assist Government in: (i) identifying the
required technical expertise, both in Senegal and abroad; (ii) resorting
to external consultants only in specialized areas and generally for short-
term periods; and (iii) providing opportunity for participation of the
Senegalese within and outside the Government, in the analysis of problems
and definition of solutions.



- 24 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
7.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(a)  the establishment of the Study Unit in MEF by March 31, 1989,
with terms of reference and staffing acceptable to IDA (para.
3.12);
(b)  the annual audit of project accounts and statements of
expenditures, by external auditors accepted by IDA no later
than six months after the close of the fiscal year (para.
4.09); and
(c)  the first year work program to December 31, 1989 for each
component, and the submission of annual work programs for
each component would be submitted to IDA for review by
October of each year (para. 5.05).
7.02     Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)  that a system of administering performance incentives to
project staff, acceptable to IDA, is adopted by Government
(para. 3.04);
(b)  that the initial deposit of US$50,000 equivalent has been
made to the Project Counterpart Account (para. 4.08); and
'c)  that a system of monitoring project actions including
managing vehicles and equipment is adopted by Goverment
(para. 5.06).
7.03     Conditions of disbursement are:
(a)  against contractual staff and studies, that criteria and
procedures for recruiting contractual staff and using study
funds acceptable to IDA have been adopted (3.04); and
(b)  against the SDA component, that a Users' committee has been
established by the Government (para. 3.14); and that all
disbursement conditions for co-financing of US$2.0 from CIDA
have been met (para 4.03).
Recommendation
7.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit of US$17.0 equivalent to the Republic of Senegal on IDA terms
with 40 years' maturity.
AF5CO
April 25, 1988



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CRITERIA AND SYSTEMS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF BONUSES AND CONTRACT STAFF
1.       Under the project, the on-going system of salary supplements and
employment of contract staff would be rationalized as an interim effort,
pending the development and implementation of a comprehensive civil service
position classification and compensation policy, which would include the
elimination of salary supplements and special contract status.
2. Principles.
(a)     salary supplements which have become entitlements would be
replaced by temporary bonuses based on performance;
(b)     contract assignments would be based on needs as defined in
the work programs; and
(c)     the allocation of bonuses and contract assignments would
be guided by concern for transparency and objectivity.
3. Criteria for allocation of bonuses.
(a)     the allocation would be based on performance as measured
by quality and quantity (e.g. overtime) of work; and
(b)     the levels (bareme) would take into account the levels of
current salaries and supplements, and the needs related to
costs of living, in order that the bonuses provide
adequate incentives;
4. Criteria for contract assignments.
(a)     each assignment would be based on P. specific job
description and specification;
(b)     the job would be open for competitive recruitment;
(c)     each contract staff would be subject to periodic
performance evaluation;
(d)     the level of compensation would be based on the training
and experience of the staff; and
(e)     apply to permanent positions in the administrative
structure requiring high degree of technical/
administrative skills.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
5. Procedures.
(a)     the above-mentioned criteria and their application,
including specific indicators of performance, would be
defined in detail after review of the existing practices
by the Project Administrator, with the help of
consultants; they would be approved by the Civil Service
Ministry and subject to IDA prior review;
(b)     the allocation of bonuses and approval of contract
employment would be the responsibility of an inter-
ministerial committee which would include outside
independent personalities; committee members would be
appointed by the President or his designate; and
(c)     a manual of procedures of administration would be defined
by the consultant, including appropriate forms.
7. Conditions.
(a)     completion of the design of the bonus system is a
condition of credit effectiveness; and
(b)     completion of the elaboration of the contract employment
system is a condition of disbursement against contract
salaries.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
APPUI A LA GESTION DU DEVELOPPEMENT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(FCFA Million)              (US$ low)                     X Total
U Foreign   Soso
Local  For-ign   Total       Locml  Foreign   Total  Exchango    Costs
A. Gestion Economipue et Financi4r.
1. Sytiet National* de Planitication
Structure central, de pl:niTication         116.6    129.1   246.7       421.0    466.6    897.6  5s            4
Consolidation systne programmation,
budg6tlsation at suivi do.                 223.0   109.6   332.0        865.2   393.4  1,198.6  83             6
inv.stisoemnts publics
Formulation politique do d6voloppoment      281.9   184.9   466.8    10617 6    678.6   1 696 2  46             8
Sub-Total SystAme Nationals de Planification      621.5   423.6  1,644.   -241s.  1,6C.   utvu:8  4i                ri
2. syst.e do Cestion Financlbre
Mobilisation ressources                     268.3   386.1   623.4        932.4  1,318.2  2,260.6  59           11
Cestion dotte publique                      166.0   181.4   338.4        669.6   666.6  1,225.4  64             6
SystAme statistique                         101.7   224.8   326.4        367.0   811.4  1,178.3  69             a
Formulation et suivi des politiquos         165.0    76.5   181.5        379.1   276.1    655.2  42             a
6conomiques/financi6res
Sub-Total Systime de GCotion Financi4re         -6-19.9 -8-41f7.   ,-487.    T           i 
Sub-Total GCstion Economique et Financi&re      1,241.4  1,276.8  2,512.2   4,481.7  4,687.6  9,669.3   51           46
B. Dim;nsion Socials Ajustment
1. Enqu&ta ESAM                                621.9   662.6  1,674.6    1,984.8  1,996.6  3,879.3  51            19
2. Etudes Socio-Economiques                     24.8   138.6   166.6         86.6   491.0    577.6  85             3
Sub-Total Dimnsion Sociale Ajustement             64K9f    688.6  1,234.6    1,976.9 Yi4Ii."  T4,4W.3  -i            2H
C. Cestion du Personnel
1. R6organisation do la DFP/SCS/DACE/SAGE      481.2   678.1  1,169.2   1,737.1  2,447.9  4,186.9  56             21
2. Revue du cadre juridique                    161.1   262.1   423.2        581.6   946.2   1 627 .   62           8
Sub-Total Gestion du Personnel                    642.3    94e.2  1,582.4    2,318.7 *,3I 7.1712:.  II               H
D. Coordination et Administration du Projet       174.0   111.7   286.7        628.2    463.2   1,631.4   39          5
Total Baseline Costa                         2,603.7  3,011.2  6,614.9   9,399.6 10,889.8  26,289.3   54        1I"
Physical Contingencios                       76.4   184.1   268.1        272.8   664.8    937.7  71             4
Price Contingencies                         461.2   564.4   966.6    1.365.1  1.826.9   3.48.0  62             17
Total Project Costs               3,146.3  3,699.7  6,846.6  11,337.5 13,375.6  24,713.1  64          118                         t Z
====__-- ____----                     = _       = 3    -X



,...ALS-C OF WMQ6L
APFUI A LA  EINH DU O        F.ME
mJfr CtEl           l5 By
Total Includi  Cmitinsciaa                                    Tehta Iacluti  Cm,tetn
1967     1968     19       10        19o       19%2    TotsI       SW7       I1II    16"      12D       ll       am2      Total
A. 0.tio. tc_n;wim  at Einancier.
1. Sea ,m  t.ml 4. eli
Strictuca cent"l* de Olanificatio       -       69.2     61.4     44.6      46.l     47.6    2"95           -       n.:2  2 22.S     161.?    167.1    11.   1.046.O
Cousmolidatmio spathoo Orogrammatiofl.
buidtiaation at ou;v sa               2.1       .2      64.2    "6          6.?7    69,2    8.1           7.4    441.       211.6   24.4    24.0.      26.1  1,419.1
)nv.t,aeeeltapub) c.s
Formtuation golibiqe do                 -      171.6     44.3     96.0       6S    101S.     51S2.4         -      M.2   S12         4uSs    4"4.S    67.   28S1.,
Sul-total Sestto platinatl de Planif;ction   2.1 SD1.6        "S. I    go6      2809.     210.5  1,3as.1         7.4   ,4'.?       776.J   646.9    NO6 4    60.7  4,647.6
2. 54mt8 do setion Finmncibra
I*;iltsation r~oeurcn                  2.8       8.9    10?.?7    6 ?7     S67        00      786.7       106.6  1,212.      36 90    16.4      17 1    U4.   2,666.6
Ovl~ation   ,maaSatcsai*                -      114.6     44.8     67.8      68.6     67.4    899.6         0-    414.4    2i2I    918.         217.0    29.:2  1,461.
Ogotion daI;ktt. lqua                  2.6    202.2      66.0     81.0      81.9     26.9    331.8         9.      790.0     286.2   196.      115.1     97.1  1.A77.8
P.roulmtion et asiv, dm politioum       -       86.2     S7.1     86.       40.0     41.2    218.2         e.1               8.0   19.4    144.4    21t6.    9O4.9
conwi qua/f i nnnc i &ers
Sub-totAt Syetlm 4t m"atiou Financi&r*      32.2    711.1.    Us.2    26.7    225.4    222.5  1*,7.0           114.2  2,667.2    9"S 4    70.2    6  6    664.1  6,414.
Sub-total Coation Ecmicaque a Finw v,.. .             S    14 4                 7m -J ,   441 0 J-Y-a          In.    l           n.-7u    -rr u   T1p1i  rwu3
g. Oi.aign socialu  Aiustment
1. equ6ta iam                                    873.8     MI.    244.6    281.6        89.8  1,291.6              1,847.7   1,018.5   691.0   906.5       0.   4,6*. 4
2. 6.tudaa soco.-6cono.qaa -m                       -       46.2     47.6     48.9      4491    192.6                    -      168.9   172.4    176.6    179.      696.4
Sul-total Dimension Social* Ajuatant          -     073.8    827.0    294.6    S00.6    169.0  1,464.4            -   1,847.7  1t,10.4  1,063.4  1, 06.1         .2  5,46. 0.
C. Iaa.o  4. P.rnal
1. Nor  'aatlm de to                     62.2    834.2    207.6    14S.0    166t.6    142.5  1,846.6        224.5  2,109.1    749.5      6.       M.*    614.S  4.067.8
2. Ramum dui cadre jaiaediqua             0.?    111.1    116.4      964.7     67.1     68.9    800.0         2.7    616.8    660.2    949.1     14.5,   M1.$  2,004.9
Sub-tta  <  tiuon di Paersnnel              62.9     99.      324.0    279.6    25S.6    228.4  1s,646.2       287.2  2,894.7  1,179.7  1.010.0    911.8    9.4  6.78.6
0. Coordination at Administratign du Proje    -      94.3 s     4.4     19.6     60.9      70.4    640.9                 422.6 A.1t    212.2   210.0    2t4.   1,927.?
Totfat Pject Cosa                            7 .2  2,281.8  1,297.?  1,10t.5  1,149.1    928.6  6,640.4 ti0,60  6,94S.   4,5011.7  4,101.7  3,616.1 S ,112.9  24,718.1
a,t
0-I



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
APPUI A LA GESTION DU DEVELOPPEMENT
SUtMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(FCFA Million)              (US2 'low6                    3 Total
X ForeIgn  Bns
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchnow         Cosat
I. Investment Coat
*. Personnel contractual                    1,182.8     -     1,182.6    4,269.8     -      4,269.1      -        21
b. Experts (contrats locaux)                  206.2    399.2    516.4      744.8 1,116.4   1,68.6        U         9
c. Experts (contrat.  Internationaux)         128.5    718.9   842.4       464.0  2,577.2  3,941.2       C5       1s
d. %hiculas                                   14U.4   171.1    819.0       584.1   617.5  1,151.7        64        6
*. Equipaments informatiques                   66.4    857.4    428.8      239.8  1,290.2   1,5U8.9      64        a
f. Autres 6quipm_nte at mobillor               65.8   261.1    326.4       285.7   942.7   1,173.4       8         6
g. Formtlons, a6minaires, publications,
documentations                            179.9   826.8  6C6.2         649.6  1,177.8   1,927.4      64        9
h. Refection locaux                            62.6    62.5    126.0       225.6   225.6    451.3        sO        2
t. Etude.                                      81.4   816.6   a83.6        221.7  1,16S.2   1,871.8      84        7
;. Missions our le terrain                     61.1     -        57.1      2W6.2    -         208.2      -         1
Total Investment Cost.                         2,167.9  2,526.1 4,677.9   7,790.2 9,697.7  16,867.9         54       es
II. R current Coet.
a. Loyers locaux                               46.9     -        48.0      178.8     -        178.8      -         1
b. Entretion                                   68.7   254.8   818.5        2ao.9   989.1  1,163.0        8a        O
c. Fournituree                                 59.1   238.8   295.4        218.3   68C.2  1,066.5       8a         5
d. Motivation du personnel                    275.9     -       275.9      992.6     -        992.0      -         6
Total Recurrent Costs                            445.6   491.2   987.0   1,699.4  1,773.2  8,382.5          52       17
Total aseline Costs                            2,038.7  3,011.2  5,614.9   9,899.5 19,639.8  20,239.3   U4          I"
Physical contingencies                      76.4   164.1   26C.1        272.6   664.6    967.7        71        4
Prios contingencies                        461.2   664.4   965.6   1,686.1  1,820.9  8,466.0          52       17
Total Project Coat.              8,149.8  3,699.7 0,340.6   11,887.5 18,876.6  24,713.1       54      118
in                       .m      
II



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page l of 3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PkOJECT
CONSULTANT SERVICES REQUIREMENTS
Component                          Task/Study                   Person-Month
National              1.  Planning Ministry: (a) management            8
Planning System           consultant to help review internal
structure and coordination; (b)
trainer/economist to help design             8
training materials, and develop
in-house training capability.
2.  Planning Department: macro-                  6
economist with extensive experience
in policy-analysis and strategic
planning to develop methodology for
prospective studies.
3.  Investment Programming Department:          57
long-term economist and financial
analyst to help develop guidelines
for project evaluation and selection
and to train staff of central,
sectoral and decentralized planning
units; short-term consultant to study
ways to improve the stock of sound
investment projects.
4.  Statistics Department: economist            12
statistician to help develop
improved methodologies for producing
national accounts, including surveys
of informal sector.
Economic and          1.  Ministry of Economy and Finance:             8
Financial Management      budget specialist to help develop
methodology and train staff in
public expenditure analysis



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Component                           Task/Study                   Person-Month
2.  Internal Revenue and Estate
Department: (a) short term                   2
management consultant to review
proposals for reorganization of
the department; (b) consultant               9
services to help design tax
returns, simplify procedures, and
expand application of TVA.
3.  Customs Department: systems                 16
analyst and computer specialist
to help set up data processing and
management information system and
train staff.
4.  Debt Division: (a) debt advisor to          17
help analyse deLt data and train
staff; (b) consultant to help                5
expand and fine-tune debt monito-
ring system.
Social Dimension      1.  Statistics Department: statistician          48
of Adiustment             to assist in carrying out standard
of living surveys and establish
permanent capability.
2.  Human Resource Department: social          100
sector economist to help develop
methodologies and carry out socio-
economic studies.
Civil Service         1.  Civil Service Department/Central
Reform                    Payroll Agency: (a) consultant               18
firm to carry out organizational
anaLysis to improve structures,
procedures, and staffing level;
(b) short-term consultant to                 4
evaluate performance.
2.  Civil Service Department: (a) short-        10
term consultant to set-up compute-
rized personnel data system and
train staff; (b) trainers/                  46
information specialists to develop
training program, materials, and
in-house training capability.
training capability.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Component                          Task/Study                  Person-Month
3.  Sectoral personnel units: management        3
consultant to recommend strengthening of
sectoral personnel units.
4.  Civil Service Ministry: legal             114
advisor, and civil service/personnel
management specialist to help study
civil service policy issues and
revise relevant rules and regulations.
Proiect              1.  Short-term consultants to assist             9
Administration            in (a) developing a project
monitoring system, (b) setting-up
a system for administering staff
performance incentives; (c) drafting
TOR's for computerized data proces-
sing systems in various components;
(d) advising on organization and
management of training programs; and
(e) carrying out annual audits of
project accounts.
Total s            350 person-months of national and 150 person-
months of international consultant services.
b



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE 1/
Amount of                   Z of Expenditures
Category                      Credit Allocated            to be Financed
(US$ million)
1. Contractual Staff                3.0                   1002 up to $550,000;
902 between US$550,001
and US$1,062,000; 802
between US$1,062,001
and US$1,507,000; and
finally 502 above
US$1,507,000.
2. Consultant Services              3.4                           100
3. Training                         1.2                           100
4. Studies                          0.7                           100
5. Civil Works                      0.7                           100
6. Vehicles, Equipment,
Furniture                        4.7                           100
7. Maintenance and Incre-
mental Operating Costs           1.1                            75
8. PAU Operating Costs              0.7                           100
9. Refinancing of PPF               1.5                   Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.02 (c)
of Development
Credit Agreement
Total                       17.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year
1988      1989     1990      1991    1992    1993   1994
-----------------------(USS million)------------------------
Annual          1.0       2.4      3.4       3.0     3.4      3.0    0.8
Cumulative     1.0        3.4      6.8       9.8    13.2    16.2   17.0
1/ For purposes of this table, the unallocated category ia distributed
among other categories



- 34 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND COOPERATION
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
__________
MINISTER |
__________
----------------------  CABINET |
| GENERAL SECRETARY
___________________
I                     I                   I~~~~
DIRECTOR OF   |   I DIRECTOR OF        I    I DIRECTOR OF    I  I DIRECTOR
OF         l     lll
PLANNING (DP) |   I INVESTMENT              I HUMAN RESOURCESI  I COOPERATION
|  PROGRAMMING,    l    l       (DRH)      l  I      (DC)
---------------    | FINANCING, AND  I        ----_---------    -------------
| MONITORING       l
I    (DPFS)
_________________



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF ECONOHMY AND FINANCE
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
M NINISTER I
!--------------------------------I CABDNET |
| STATE SECRETARY I
-- - -- -     - -- - -I-- - - -    - - - -I -- - - -   - - -  - - - -    - - -    I-- - - -- - -I  -- --
DIRECTOR    I  I DIRECTOR OF      I  I DIRECTOR       I  I oIRECTOR    I  I DIRECTOR OF I  I DIRECTOR OF       O I DIRECTORATE I
GENERAL OF  I  IFORECASTING AND       GENERAL OF      I  ICENERAL OF   I  ISTATISTICS   I  I AUTOMATIC   I  I GENERAL OF
FINANCES    I  ICONJONCTURE (DPC)I  I INTERNAL        I  ICUSTOUS AND  I  I    (DS)      I  I   DATA      I  I TREASURY   I
-- - ---------    ---------- ------   I REVENUES AND   i IDUTIES (DOD) I  -------------   IPROCESSING          --------
I                               I ESTATES (DGID)     -------------                     I    (DTAI)   I                                    w
- -- - - -- ---                       --                      - --- -- -- --- -- -     -- -- - ----L
I              _ _ _ _ _ _I                    I                       I_               _ _ _ _
_____________-I I -- --- _ _ _ _  __                    _   _I_                                 __
I DIRECTOR OF I     I             I---I DIRECTORATE OF    I       I  DIRECTORATE    I      1              1    I DIRECTORATE OF
e U8ET    I---                 I   I INTERNAL REVENUES I      I  GENERAL OF       I-    I             I    I VONEY AND CREDIT
--I- - - ------  |  I   ---- - ---  -- - ----  I ECONOMIC AFFAIRS     I             I    ----
I  I                             ~~~      ~    ~~                 ~     ~~~----I------
_____ _____ ____ I           I     _ _ _ _ _ _  _ ____ _            _ _ __ _ _ _I                   I_       _ __ _ _ _  _ _
I        I         ~~----- ------               ------ 
DIRECTOR OF    I  I              I--- I DIRECTORATE OF I         I DIRECTORATE OF  I      I             I     I DIRECTORATE OF I
DEBT AND      I    I    I  OF ESTATES   I                      I INTERNAL TRADE                                 O I  N---- I h GO ERME
INVESTMENT (DDI))I}                       -------    -                A ND PRICING    I-I                 I     I ACCOUNTING
---------                                                        - -         I 
______ ______ I              I                                _o     _ _       _I                   I       _  o  _  _   _
 I                            I------          ------------------
CENTRAL PAYROLL   I              I    IDIRECTORATE OF  I         IDIRECTORATE OF  I       I             I    ITREASURY ANDI
(SCS)       -I              ----I   LAND AND                IEXTERNAL TRADE  I                     1-     PAYMENT
------REGISTRATION                                                                              ------------- 
- - -----------                                                ----I -                                     ----- -------
HOUSING AND  I  I                                              I DIRECTORATE OF   I   I                ---   PIBLIC LEGAL I
MATERIAL UNITS I--                                               I ECONOMIC CONTROL   I                       I    AGENTS
-------------------
oI



- 36 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
REPUoLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVICE AND LAoOR
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
I MINISTER I
__________
_--------------------   DIRECTOR OF
|  CABINET l
l                           l
l                           l
I                      __ _ __ _ _
---------------------  STUDY UNIT
DIRECTORATE OF                                        DIRECTORATE OF
CIVIL SERVICE |                                   | LABOR AND SOCIAL
________________                                    |    SECURITY
__________________



- 37 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED INDICATORS OF PROJECT SUCCESS
Component        Indicator                   Date       Responsible Aaency
National      1. Clear definition of         9/1989    Planning Department
Plannina         responsibilities of                    (MPC)
System           central, sectoral, and
regional planning units
2. Actual transfer of          12/1989   Planning Department
activities to sectoral                (MPC)
ministries and PEs for
project identification,
preparation and analysis
3. Sector reports on           6/1989    Planning Department
potential and constraints             (MPC)
of Senegalese economy and
on its long-term growth
prospects
4. Three-year rolling          From      Investment Program-
Public Investment Program  6/1988    ming, Financing and
updated yearly; consoli-              Monitoring Depart-
dated investment budget               ment (MPC)
produced annually
Economic and  1. Increased tax revenues      7/1989    Customs and Land and
Financial        due to improved tax                    Internal Revenue
Management       administration through                 Departments (MEF)
modernized data processing
techniques and better
trained and motivated staff
2. Monthly reports on          12/1988   Debt Division
public debt and actual                (DDI/MEF)
managing of the debt
monitoring system by
national staff
3. Production of a budgetary  6/1989    HEF Study Unit
and expenditures policy
framework



- 38 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
4. Production of provisional  1/1989    Statistics Depart-
accounts of 1987 and                  ment (MEF)
final national accounts
a year later
Social        1. Quarterly reports on         3/1990    Statistics
Dimensions       household standards of                 Department
of Adiustment    living                                  (MEF)
2. Reports on socio-           From      Hu-nn Resource
economic conditions         1/1990    Department
of under-privileged                    (MPC)
groups
3. Preparation of social       From      MPC (DRH) and
adjustment projects         6/1990    concerned ministries
Civil         1. Improved data on             12/1989   Civil Service
Service          personnel situation                    Department
Reforms           reported on a quarterly                (MFPT)
basis through a modernized
Central Roster System
2. Accurate reporting on       12/1988   Central Payroll
public payroll situation              Agency (MEF)
through improved data
processing equipment and
better trained and moti-
vated staff
3. Improved day to day         12/1989   Civil Service
personnel administration              Department
through rehabilitation of              (MFPT)
Civil Service Department,
recruitment of high level
contractuals and better
trained and motivated
staff
4. AdoptiLn and implementa-   From       Ministry of Civil
tion of recommendations    1/1989    Service and Labor
to improve civil service
rules and regulations.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
----------------------------------------------------__-----------------------__---------------------------------------------------__---------------
ICo.pon.nt/Subcompon.nt                        I                                           Yoer urtd Quarter                                                        I
I   Activity                                   l1987          1988        l      1989       l      1999       1      1991       1     1m          1      1991       1
I       Taskool 3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4l
IA. National Planning System                                              I                 l
I__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _I                       ,    I        .      1.         I        . .I                                I                 I                 I
I   1. Central Planning Structures                   x   x   x
I      - Reviewo aPCorganization and           I   .               xx.xxxl xx. xx.   .   I                                                        I                 I
I        staffingl                                      lllll                                                                            .ll
I      - Analysis planning capacity                     l     xx. xx.   l                   l                 l                 l                 l 
of sctoral ministries                I                                                 .   .        I   .             I                 l                 I
I      - Strengthen Coordination                        I l    xx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl xx. xx. x . x   x . x . x . x             .   .   .   I   .       *
I        of planning activities                                                                                                                   I
I                                              If l  n n a ti ii.  I  .I        .  .  I.             . .  I  .  .  .   I.                .    . I      .I  .        I
1 2. Invo t ont Plonninal,1                                                                                                                                       l 
Programming, and Monitoring             1   .   I                  I                                   I   .   .         I                                      u 
- Define medium-term                        I        xx. xx.xxx.xxxl xx.xxx.xxx. xxlxxx.xxx.xxx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxI   .   .   .
development framework                     I.I                                                 .     I                               .   I        .l I
- methodologies and                    I xx.xxxlxxx.xxx.          I                    xx. xx. xx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxi                       I
procedures of project                                     . l.l                   I                 l                 l                 l                  l
preparation and selection            I   .   I                  I                                   l                 I                 l I
l      - Pursue improvements in                lxxx.xxxlxxx. xx. xx.   I             xx.   I           xx.                      I                                   I
programing and budgeting             l                                            I                I                                   I l  l            l
- mthodology of ex-post                l        l                 l xx. xx. xx. xxl                                     l  
e valuation                                                          llllll
I                                              I   .    I   .    .   .    I   .    .    . I      . .  .  I. .               .   I    .   .    .   I        ..   .   I
3 Lon-Trom Development
At ernatives                              1                         I        *                                     I
- Develop_methodologis                 I        I          xx.xxxl x   xx.
- Carry out studios                    I        I          x   xxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxI                                           I
- Develop development scenarios                                   I                 I xx. xx.xxx.xxxl xx. xx. xx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx. xxl                xxx. xxi
o z
0 ~.
O~ c-



REPUBLIC OF SENECAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1111EIENTATION SCHEDULE
tCoMpon.nt/Subcomponont                    I                                        Year and Quarter                                                    I
I  Activities                                 19871       1988      |     1989       1     199t       1     1991       1     19m       1     1993
1    Took*                                   1   2   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   A   4l
9. Economic and Financial Mang_ment            :                 :                :               :                : ,     ,,
I__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  _ __ _ _ _ _ _     I    ,   I   ,   ,   ,   I    ,   .   .   I    .   .   .   I                I               I                I
I1. Mobilizina Fiscal Resources        I   .   I      . *           *                             I                I   .
I      - Improve mnagomnt of tax           I        lxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx. 
l   defor_mnts                             I       .            I ,   ,   ,      I   .            I   .           I   .            Il 
l      - Improve monitoring of                      Ixxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx         lxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx. 
exemptions                                 I                    .           I   .            I                I .I .
- roprove information on goods    lxxxx.xxxxxxl x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x .x   x .x   x .                    x   x   x   x .  x   x   x   x
I          Iuvalues                                 I ..             I *   I   * 
I    - Improve information on tax bas    I xx. xxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl    .            .                        .     .     I
l     - Strengthen audit of tax returno   I         I        xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.        l                l   ,   ,   ,   l   ,   ,   ,   l         ,       l
- Improv- organization, mthods,    I xx. xxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl xx. xx. xx.                        I l              l       ,        l   ,
I       and staff comp.tencI   .                       ..               .                 .                         .                   I  ,
- Study measures to expand            I   .   Ixxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl                                                                  I
I    taata                                 I    Ib.. *I.**sI*I*I*I                                                                                      I
1 2. Mnso-ment of Public Debt                   I .                                  I I                           , I                  I                l  o
I    - Inventory debts                     |xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx       .                       . |  .|xxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.               I 
l    - Monitor transactions                lxxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl                 lxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.         l                l 
- Project new transactions           I    xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx. xx          .        I                I.                                        I
- Establish reporting system         I    xxxlxxx.xxx. xx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxi             
I    - Analyse debt service                         I xx. xx. xx. xxi xx. xx. xx. xxi                                                                    I I       ,   ,   , 
I     - Project resources affected         lxxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.                 I                , I             ,   ,   I        ,   ,        .            I
- Project debt sorvices              I        Ixxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl                I                I       ,        I   ,            I       ,   ,   I
l     - Prepare financing plan for          I       Ixxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl                I                l        ,   ,   l I          ,   l   ,   ,   ,   l
l   debt accountl                               I       .        lIllll
l     - Strengthon institutional            lxxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.        lxxx.xxx.       I                l        ,   ,   l   ,   ,   ,   l   ,
l   capacity of DDIl                            IllIl , ,                                                                           Il
I                                          I1.I.  .    . 1I.  .    . 1I.  .    . 1I.  .    . 1I.  .    . 1I.  .    .1I
I   . Statistical system                                           ll ,l                                          
l     - Produce provisoonal national       lxxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.    xxxlxxx.             lxxx.            lxxx.            lxxx.                      .
a ccounts                              I        l I                              l                l                l I              l                l                    
- Strengthen system of producing    lxxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl
l       regular national accounts          l
I                               ~   ~   ~~I . I  . . .    I   .   .   .   I    .   .   .   I   .   .    .   I   .   .   .    I   .   .   .    I
4        n PolicysFortulotion and Monitorinp   l   I                l               l        ,       l                l                l           ,   l
I     -sConsttutostudy group                l       lxxx    .        I               l   ,            l                l                l           , 
I     - Develop mthodologits                    I   .     xx. xx. x             x   x   x   x I   .                , I     ,
- Carry out review                    I       I       .       xxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl xx.xxx. x   x lxxx. x   x   x lxxx. x   x   x lxxx. x   x * x
1.3
-4



REPU1LIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IWL       3TATION SCHEDULE
IComponent/Subcompon.nt                    I                                        Yo r and Quartor
I  Activity                                I 197S 1       1 9m            1969       1     1990       I     1991       I     19m       I      1993
Tasok                              Il 21     1    2   3   411    2   3   4  1    2   3   4  1    2 t        4  1   2   3   4  1   2 4         4
IC. Social Diensions of AdJustment
I__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _ _I           .   I   .   .   .   I    .   .   .   I   .    .   .   I   .I                            I               I
I  1. Survey of Household Budget           I        I               I                I                I                                 I
I      and Standard of Living              l        I     xx.       I             :                :1l:: 
I      - Preparo survey                                      xxx .xxxlxxx .      .                                     I                l               I
I      - Conduct survey                    I        l               I   xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.                I   .
2. Socio-Economic Studies
- Identify issuos                             x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x Ix   x   x   x   x   x   x   x lx   x   x
- Develop m*thodologl-s             I        I         xx. xxl xx. xx. xx.
- Conduct studies                                            I                 Ixxx.xxx.xxxxxxlxxxx.xxx.xxx.xxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.   I
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________--_____-
IComponent/Subcomponent                    I                                        Year and Quarter
Activity                                I1587I        19m        1     1969      1     1990             19l9 1  I         m 1             1993         ,
Toaske                               1   2   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4 11   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   41
ID. Modernizing Action of Civil Service   I         I               I                I                I                I                |               I
I System                                    1                        I            .                         .    .                      I...   I
I_________ ________ _________  ________    I    .           I                        I .  .  I  .  .  .  I  .  .   .   I I              I               I
I 1. Rehabilitate Prsonn l Assnceos                                                       
I      - Inventory personn el       l        x       I               I                I            .                                .1        .         I
- Analyse existing organization    1      xxlxxx.xxx         I        .       I                I                            .                .
- Set up nw structur-,                  I             xxx.xxxlxxx                              .     .     .
procedurs informtion system
- Establish internal control        I        I                   .xxx.xxx.
system                                           .          I               I        *                                     .1l. 
- Rofurbish offices                     I   I          xx.xxxl xx. xx.                                 I   .   .   .
- Establish a cooputerized data              I               I                lxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxl                         I                        I
procossing aystm                                 .          I                I                I               i            .1...
- Train stsff                       I         xx. x. xx. xxlxxx.  x   x       I xx  x   x   x     xx. x   x   x l xx. x   x   x lxx.             I
- Apply now systm                        I     I             Ixxx.xxx.xxx.   I                 lxxx.xxx.   .    
I   2..rvPronloiisI   .   I   .   .   . I   . . . I   .   .   .   I   . . .   I   . . .   I   .   . . I
2. Improv. Personnel Policio                    ||||                                                           
- Staff study unit                  I    xxl xx.xxx.xxx.
- Establish review mchanism               x  xx. xx.xxx.xxxlrtx.I
- Identify and analyze              I     xxl xx. xx.xxx.xxxlxxx.             I
preority issues                   I        I                                I                I                I               l
- Study *nd concertation            I        I        xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxx.xxx.xxxlxxx.xxxx.xxxlxx.xxxx.xxx.   I
OQZ
0



- 42 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A. Staff Report
Al. *An Administrative Assessment of Senegal". Working Paper No. 7
WA2DB, September 1986
A2. "Personnel Management in the Senegalese Civil Service: Present
Operations and a Strategy for Reform', December 1986
A3. "Evaluation of the Social Dimensions of Structural Adiustment in
Sub-Saharan Africa : Republic of Senegal," January 1988
B. Consultant Reports
Bl.  Berg, Elliott. Notes on Development Management Project,
March 16, 1987
B2.  Bloch, Peter C. Wage Policy. Wage Structure and Employment in
the Public Sector of Senegal, February 1985
B3.  GGI Consultant. Reorganisation de la Direction de la Fonction
Publique, Novembre 1987
B4.  GGI Consultant. La Reorganisation du Fichier Central de la
Direction de la Fonction Publique, Novembre 1987
B5.  IDET-CEGOS. La Programmation des Investissements Publics,
Juin 1985
B6.  Steedman, David. Senegal Development Management Project,
March 16, 1987
B7.  UNDP. Assistance au Bureau Organisation et Methodes du Secretariat
G6n6ral de la Presidence de la R4publique, Volet Gestion du
Personnel - Rapport de mission d'Evaluation
Aoltt 1985
B8.  Veriter, Frangois. Le Personnel et les Structurea de
l'Administration Publique SeneRalaise, Juin 1986
C. Government Reports
Cl. Bureau Organisation et Methodes. Seminaire sur la Fonction
Personnel, Octobre 1986



- 43 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
C2.  Bureau Organisation et Hfthodes. Expdrience Sdn#galaise en mati&re
d'Elaboration, de Mise en Oeuvre. de Contr8le et d'Utilisation de
l'Organigraumme comme instrument de rationalisation des structures
et de gestion des emplois publics, Juin 1984
C3. Bureau Organisation et H6thodes. Les Structures Administratives
S4ntgalaises, 1974
C4.  Les Indemnites et les Primes dans la Fonction Publique S0n4galaise
MHmadou Diarra, Inspecteur G4n4ral, 1985
C5. Proposition Pour Ameliorer l'Application des D0cisions
Gouvernementales. Jean Pierre Hoss, Conseiller Juridique
du Pr0sident de la R0publique, 4 mars 1982.
C6.  Ministry of Plan and Cooperation: various documents related to
GOS's request for Bank's support under the proiect, including
five-year action programs developed by participating agencies,
1987.



,I6                    M    A    U    R   I  T   A    N    I  A
SENEGAL                                   ,                    .         odo ,
-   ~~~~~~~~~~-~ 
- fOpp--n capJ  s              I'
o    D BinCapils             -            a'       \                     __        ,, *
.                                 ---    ,    
toM  *so    *Qo           /                                                                '.Lu
KLOOMR                                       0   UL O,'U   G  A
c:v                                                                                                                                    Is
-A ~      ~      -
CAP VERT   \L     T~             Di0Ui  ELc`
DAJ(A                          't           ,            \                                                                                                i                   ',
,\. %         ou ~ e r- r-   -a-<                                                                                       ..J \I*  w
C^PvfRr   :~  \- -                            -J ,                                            - 
\ .S,,,,0,.,                                                   I                -\-                  _         
F A Tr-1. C K r---                                                                   /
J
2 _ \a / A    .'  )                                                                                                             M A L I
Z-    '                                     I                                                                                MALI
1K  A kO   L  A  C  K
A., ----'--.--,--^  ,
A.                                                                     ',-, 1
T A M, B AACOUNDA
T H E   G A M B I A\
--.- K.   _                                                               ' . ,s         ,          .,
. , aa,. a ,                   -(
dl at. B.twl. Ao t                             /                 K      0,      L      D)    -A--s                         .          -
'ct -a'- ,~ZIGUINCHOR                                                                                                    N :tIOcOO KOSA
KATIONAL PARK
hhBast0a1B ..... 0C'C,*ht0         .......... twO,  (  Sedh.o.                                 , 
-vs    4  t  .' -J 094  Bfl
* v .   Zgqu,ncho, \                                                                                               K . ( s      2
CAP SKll_N 
16    GUINEA- BISSAU                                                                    G U I N E A,. 



