Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1910 SE
                 (Development Management Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 9, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1910 SE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  June  9,  1988,  between  the  REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL  (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the   International   Bank    for   Reconstruction   and
Development  (the  Bank)   and   the  United  Nations  Development
Programme (UNDP) have entered  into  an agreement (the SDA Project
Document; RAF/86/037/A/01/42),  dated  November  12,  1987, making
arrangements for  the  Bank  to  act  as  executing  agency for an
"Assessment  of  Social  Dimensions  of  Structural  Adjustment in
Sub-Saharan Africa"  to  be  co-financed  by  the  Bank, UNDP, the
African Development Bank and other donors (the SDA Program);
Page  2
     (C)  the  Borrower  has   indicated   its  interest  in,  and
adherence to, the SDA Project Document by a letter dated March 14,
1988 addressed to the UNDP Resident Representative in the Republic
of Senegal, thereby becoming a  party  to the SDA Project Document
as fully as if it had signed said document directly;
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  Canadian
International Development Agency  (CIDA)  a contribution (the CIDA
Contribution) in an amount  equivalent  to  2.0 million dollars to
assist in financing Part C of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth:
     (a)  "Interministerial Council"  means  the Borrower's inter-
ministerial  council  for  coordination   and  monitoring  of  its
adjustment program, established pursuant  to  decree No. 85-057 of
January 15, 1985, or  any other interministerial council entrusted
with the responsibility  for  coordination  and  monitoring of the
Project;
     (b)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Contractual staff" means  staff  hired  by the Borrower
pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  own  regulations  under  fixed-term
contracts of not less than one and not more than five years;
     (d)  "DFP" means MFPT's  Direction  de  la Fonction Publique,
the Borrower's civil service department;
     (e)  "FY" and "fiscal year"  mean the Borrower's fiscal year,
starting on July 1 and ending on June 30;
     (f)  "MEF" means Minist®re de l'Economie et des Finances, the
Borrower's ministry in charge of finances;
     (g)  "MFPT" means Minist®re  de  la  Fonction  Publique et du
Travail, the Borrower's ministry  in  charge  of civil service and
labor;
     (h)  "MPC" means Minist®re du Plan  et de la Coopåration, the
Borrower's ministry in charge of planning;
     (i)  "PAU" means the Project  Administration Unit referred to
in Section 3.03 (a) of  this  Agreement, established pursuant to a
decision of the Minister of  Plan  and Cooperation, dated April 1,
1988;
     (j)  "Project Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project pre-
paration advances granted by the  Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to exchanges of letters, dated March 10, 1987, May 18, 1987,
October 7, 1987 and  December  3,  1987, respectively, between the
Borrower and the Association;
     (k)  "SCS" means  MEF's  Service  Central  de  la  Solde, the
Page  3
Borrower's central payroll agency; and
     (l)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment  Credit  Agreement,   an   amount   in  various  currencies
equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,500,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF  a  special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized  amount of the Project Prep-
aration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  November  1,  1998  and   ending  May  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of  Section  4.O2 of the General Condi-
tions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate econo-
mic, financial  and  public  administration  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The  Borrower   shall   maintain   a  revolving  account
exclusively for the purposes of  the  Project and shall, after the
initial deposit therein  set  forth  in  Section  6.01 (a) of this
Agreement, replenish such account  as  and when required to ensure
that, on the first day  of  each calendar quarter during each year
the Project is executed, an amount satisfactory to the Association
shall be  available  in  such  account  to  finance the Borrower's
estimated contribution to the Project in such quarter.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a)  To  administer  the  Project, the Borrower
shall maintain the PAU  in  MPC  headed by a project administrator
reporting to the Minister  in  charge  of  Planning and with staff
Page  5
including an administrative and financial assistant, an accountant
and support staff.
     (b)  To coordinate  and  monitor  the  Project,  the Borrower
shall maintain  the  Interministerial  Council,  which shall inter
alia be responsible for  approving  work programs of the concerned
agencies,   monitoring   their   implementation   and   evaluating
achievements.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall,  not later than October 31
of each  year,  submit  to  the  Association  for  its  review and
approval draft work programs for each  Part of the Project for the
following calendar year.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall,  not  later than March 31,
1989, establish and thereafter maintain the study unit referred to
in  Part  B.5  of  the  Project,  with  staff  with  the  required
experience and qualifications; said  unit  to be responsible inter
alia for  assisting  MEF  in  the  formulation  of  the Borrower's
economic and financial policies.
     Section 3.06. For the purpose  of  Part C of the Project, the
Borrower  shall  establish  and  thereafter  maintain  a technical
committee of users reporting  to  the Interministerial Council and
including representatives of the main ministries concerned by said
Part of the Project; said  committee  to be responsible inter alia
for:
     (a)  adopting criteria and  procedures  for the selection and
financing of the studies referred to in Part C.2 of the Project;
     (b)  ensuring  that  the  design  and  implementation  of the
questionnaires, surveys and  studies  adequately reflect the needs
of the concerned ministries; and
     (c)  monitoring such surveys and  studies and publicize their
results in order inter alia to contribute to the identification of
projects.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such  detail  as  the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
Page  6
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Borrower shall  have  repealed,  waived, modified or
failed to  enforce  the  criteria  and  procedures  referred to in
paragraph 3 (b) or 3 (c)  of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement without
the Association's prior approval.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
               the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
               terminated in whole  or  in  part,  pursuant to the
               terms of the agreement providing therefor.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation or termination is  not caused by the failure
               of the Borrower to  perform  any of its obligations
               under such agreement;  and  (B)  adequate funds for
               the Project  are  available  to  the  Borrower from
               other sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
               with the  obligations  of  the  Borrower under this
               Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower  has  opened  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement  and has deposited therein an
initial amount equivalent to 50,000 dollars;
     (b)  the Borrower  has  adopted  a  system  for  granting the
performance incentives referred to in  Part  E.2 of the Project on
Page  7
the  basis  of   principles   of   objectivity,  transparency  and
efficiency and in accordance with the Borrower's regulations; and
     (c)  the Borrower has  adopted  a  system satisfactory to the
Association for Project  administration  and monitoring, including
administration of vehicles and equipment.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister and  the Secretary of State of the
Borrower responsible for  Finance  are  each  designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minist®re de l'Economie et des Finances
          Rue Charles LaÛnå
          B.P. 4012
          Dakar, Senegal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINIFINANCES                    3203 SG
                Dakar
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                          By /s/ Serigne Lamine Diop
                          Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                          Regional Vice President
Page  8
                          Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets  forth  the  Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Office refur-
     bishing works
     (a)  for Part C                30,000       100%
     (b)  for other Parts          430,000       100%
(2)  Vehicles, equip-
     ment and office
     furniture
     (a)  for Part C               600,000       100%
     (b)  for other              2,700,000       100%
          Parts
(3)  Consultants'                2,500,000       100%
     services for
     Parts A, B, D
     and E
(4)  Training
     (a)  for Part C                 7,000       100%
     (b)  for other Parts          843,000       100%
(5)  Studies for                   275,000       100%
     Parts A, B, D
     and E
(6)  Contractual
     staff
     (a)  for Part C               620,000       100%
     (b)  for other Parts        1,330,000       100% up to
                                                 SDR 400,000;
                                                 90% from
                                                 SDR 400,001
                                                 to SDR 775,000;
                                                 80% from
                                                 SDR 775,001 to
                                                 SDR 1,100,000;
                                                 and finally
                                                 50% above
                                                 SDR 1,100,000
(7)  Maintenance
     and incre-
     mental operat-
     ing costs
     (a)  for Part C               335,000       75%
Page  9
     (b)  for other                465,000       75%
          Parts
(8)  PAU operating                 500,000       100%
     costs
(9)  Refunding of                1,100,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(10) Unallocated                   765,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                  12,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "maintenance  and  incremental operating costs"
means  the  cost  of:  (i)  maintenance  contracts  on  computers,
vehicles and office equipment; and (ii) office supplies and fuel;
     (b)  the  term  "PAU  operating  costs"  means  the  cost  of
salaries and travel of PAU  staff, fuel, office rent and supplies,
maintenance  of  vehicles  and  equipment  and  utilities  (water,
electricity and telephone).
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Credit  allocated  to  Category  (5), unless the
Borrower has adopted criteria  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association for the use and administration of such proceeds;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Credit  allocated  to  Category  (6), unless the
Borrower has adopted criteria  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association for recruiting contractual  staff  on the basis of job
descriptions  and   profiles,   principles   of   objectivity  and
efficiency, and in accordance with the Borrower's regulations; and
     (d)  payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  allocated  to  Categories (1)(a), (2)(a),
(4)(a), (6)(a)  and  (7)(a),  unless  all  conditions precedent to
disbursements under any agreement for  the  financing of Part C of
the Project have been fulfilled,  and the committee referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement has been established.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to support the Borrower's
structural adjustment  program,  to  strengthen  its  economic and
financial management capacity,  and  to  reduce  its dependence on
external technical assistance.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of the National Planning System
1.   Assessment and upgrading of  planning capabilities of MPC and
selected sectoral  ministries,  and  gradual  transfer to sectoral
ministries  of   responsibilities   for   project  identification,
evaluation and preparation.
Page  10
2.   Implementation of a three-year rolling investment programming
system, and systems for budgeting and monitoring investments.
3.   Development of MPC's capability to formulate long-term devel-
opment policies and to identify  potential projects in the context
of such policies.
4.   Staff training for Part A of the Project.
Part B:   Improvement of Economic and Financial Management
1.   Increase in the  efficiency  of  customs operations and fraud
control through:
     (a)  introduction of computerized data processing techniques;
     (b)  improved valuation of imported goods;
     (c)  training for customs inspectors; and
     (d)  increased mobility of customs squads.
2.   Expansion of the tax basis  and improvement in tax collection
through:
     (a)  improvements in  fiscal  control  and  in the management
systems and organization of MEF's  department of land and internal
revenue;
     (b)  computerization of data processing; and
     (c)  establishment of a system of fiscal incentives fostering
production and investment.
3.   Improvement in management of the public debt, through:
     (a)  expansion of the Borrower's debt monitoring system;
     (b)  increasing capabilities  to  forecast  debt  service and
commitments and formulate debt strategies; and
     (c)  timely debt  reporting  and  analysis  and  follow-up of
financial implementation of projects.
4.   Rehabilitation of the statistical system, including:
     (a)  rapid  production  of  provisional  and  final  national
accounts;
     (b)  evaluation of statistics needs of users;
     (c)  updating legislation governing collection of statistics;
     (d)  establishment and management of  a national data base on
enterprises and associations; and
     (e)  surveys of the informal sector.
5.   Improvement in  formulation  and  monitoring  of economic and
financial policies, including:
     (a)  establishment of a study unit in MEF; and
     (b)  conducting policy review seminars.
6.   Staff training for each component of Part B of the Project.
Part C:   Incorporation  of   Social   Dimensions   in  Adjustment
          Programs
Page  11
1.   Establishment and operation of  a permanent system of surveys
on the standard of living of households.
2.   In-depth socio-economic studies on  the effects of adjustment
programs to improve such programs by integrating social dimensions
and to identify poverty-alleviation projects.
3.   Staff training for Part C of the Project.
Part D:   Modernization of Civil Service System
1.   Improvements of the structures and  procedures of DFP and SCS
in order to:
     (a)  strengthen DFP's and SCS' organizational structure;
     (b)  establish  systematic  communication  procedures between
DFP, SCS and the personnel units of the ministries;
     (c)  computerize data  processing  for  personnel management;
and
     (d)  set up a training  and development program for personnel
staff.
2.   Review of  legal  and  policy  framework  governing the civil
service, leading to:
     (a)  improved personnel practices;
     (b)  streamlining and updating of laws and regulations; and
     (c)  compilation and dissemination of personnel procedures.
3.   Identification of  staff  redundancies  and implementation of
staff redeployment programs.
4.   Staff training for Part D of the Project.
Part E:   Project Administration, Incentives and Contractual Staff
1.   Administration  and  follow-up  of  Project  by  the  Project
Administration Unit.
2.   Implementation  of  a  system  and  procedures  for  granting
performance  incentives  to   selected   staff   of  the  Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
3.   Implementation of a system  and procedures for the selection,
employment and evaluation of contractual staff.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  12
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in  Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in the West
African Economic Community may  be  granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and  subject  to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $100,000
per contract  and  civil  works  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items  estimated to cost the equivalent of
$30,000 or less per  contract,  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least  three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines,  in   accordance   with   procedures   acceptable   to  the
Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000  or  more  and to each contract for
civil works, the procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ economic, financial, statistical, legal,
public administration and  other consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
Page  13
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $700,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
Page  14
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such  payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further  deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
