Document of                               I    ^ S
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  FILE  CUPY
Report No. 2560-SW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
October 30, 1979
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit         =        Lilangeni (E)
(pl. Emalangeni)
USSi.00               =       EO.87
E1.00                 =       US$1.15
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)      2   =        3.28 feet
1 square meter (m )  =        10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)     =        0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       =        2.74 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA    -  Danish International Development Agency
EEC       -  European Economic Community
IDM       -  Institute for Development Management
MOE       -  Ministry of Education
MOW       -  Ministry of Works
ODM       -  Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
PCU       -  Primary Curriculum Unit
PIU       -  Project Implementation Unit
PSLC      -  Primary School Leaving Certificate
REC       -  Rural Education Center
SCOT      -  Swaziland College of Technology
SCU       -  Secondary Curriculum Unit
SIDA      -  Swedish International Development Agency
SIEC      -  Swaziland International Education Center
SIMPA     -  Swaziland Institute for Management and Public Administration
TIDC      -  Teacher Innovation and Distribution Center
UBS       -  University of Botswana and Swaziland
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    -  United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UPE       -  Universal Primary Education
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
WPTTC     -  William Pitcher Teacher Training College
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SWAZILAND
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND ......     ........................    1
Population, Geography, and the Economy ......... ..1........... 
The Manpower Situation                   ..                        2
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM ...........................    2
Educational Policies and Plans ..............................      2
Structure, Administration, and Planning ..............             3
Primary Education ....... ..................                       4
Junior Secondary Education ..................................      6
Upper Secondary, Technical, and Higher Education ............      7
Training of Civil Servants ..................................      8
Nonformal Education and Training of Adults and
Out-of-School Youths ......................................    9
Financing of Education ......................................    9
III.  BANK EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN SWAZILAND .11
First and Second Education Projects      ..11
Bank Sector Knowledge, Objectives, and Strategy.                  12
IV. THE PROJECT .13
Objectives and Composition .13
Primary Education .15
Junior Secondary Education .16
Curriculum Development and In-Service Training .17
Management Training .18
Studies and Evaluation .18
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Swaziland
in February 1979 and included Messrs. L. Wolff (education planner, mission
leader), K. Andersen (architect), L. Swahn (technical educator), and
M. Ahmed (young professional, economist). The project was further reviewed in
the field in July 1979 by Messrs. Wolff and M. Carroll (textbook consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
I                             



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN .............................   19
Project  Cost   ................................................  19
Financial   Plan   . ...................... . ......  ......**  22
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ...... ...   23
Implementation   ................* *.............................  23
Procurement ..............................                     24
Disbursement    ............     . ..............................   24
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................. .. ...........   25
Benefits .....................................                 25
Risks and Uncertainties ............. ..... ... . ....... .   .........    26
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................   26
ANNEX I - Tables and Charts
Table T-1   Expected Supply and Demand for Skilled Employment, 1982-83
T-2   Comparative Education Indicators
T-3   Primary and Secondary Teacher Demand and Supply, 1977-85
T-4   Enrollment Projections, 1977-85
T-5   Recurrent Expenditures on Education, 1978-1985
T-6   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
T-7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart C-1   Educational Pyramid
C-2   Structure of the Education System
C-3   Organization of the Ministry of Education
C-4   Implementation Schedule          V
ANNEX 2 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map      IBRD 14326R1



SWAZILAND
BASIC DATA (Estimated)
General
Area                                                    17,368 km2
Population (1977)                                       520,000
Annual Growth Rate                                      2.8%
Per Capita Income (1977)                                US$520
Education
Literacy Rate (1977)                                    65%
School Year                                             February - December
Gross Enrollment Ratios (1977):
Primary Education (6-12 age group)                92%
Secondary Education (13-17 group)                 32%
Central Government expenditures on education
as percentage of total Government Expenditures
(1978)
Capital                                           9.2%
Recurrent                                         18.2%
Total                                             12.2%
Total public education expenditure as a
percentage of GDP (1977)                              6.1%






I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
Population, Geography, and the Economy
1.01      The Kingdom of Swaziland is a landlocked country lying be ween the
Republic of South Africa and Mozambique. With an area of 17,368 km and a
population of about 520,000, it is among the smallest countries in Africa.
About 90% of the population are ethnic Swazis.
1.02      Swaziland's per capita income, estimated at US$520 equivalent in
1977, is higher than most other Bank member countries in the Eastern Africa
region. In relation to its size, it is relatively well endowed with natural
resources. It has a varied climate, a number of perennial rivers and an
adequate supply of cultivable land which together provide the basis for
diversified agriculture. In addition, there are significant deposits of
coal and lesser quantities of asbestos. It is also a country of some
scenic beauty, an asset which is being exploited in the development of
tourism.
1.03      Agriculture and forestry are the largest components of the Swazi
economy, accounting directly for 29% of GDP in 1977. Much of the industry
is based on the processing of agricultural and forest products and these
products account for 60% of the country's total exports. Swaziland's heavy
dependence on sugar and woodpulp makes the economy vulnerable to changes in
the international price of these commodities. The industrial sector contri-
butes about 25% of GDP and has experienced, until recently, a relatively high
rate of growth of about 5% per annum in real terms.
1.04      The economy is open and, through common membership of the Rand
Monetary Area and the Southern Africa Customs Union, closely interlinked
with that of the Republic of South Africa. About 90% of Swaziland's imports
originate in, or pass through, the distribution system of the Republic of
South Africa, which itself absorbs a quarter of the country's merchandise
exports. In addition, the common Customs Union pool provides for nearly half
of central Government revenue.
1.05      A rapidly growing modern sector has coexisted with a largely stag-
nant traditional, primarily rural one. This is a reflection of the continued
severe dualism in the Swazi economy. The modern sector provides for about
80% of gross domestic product and merchandise exports and employs a third
of the 254,000 strong labor force. Aside from another 25,000 workers
temporarily in the Republic of South Africa, the rest of the labor force
and over one half of the population depend on the traditional sector
characterized primarily by low income subsistence agriculture and cattle
rearing. The growth rate of traditional sector output has barely kept pace
with population, which is growing at a rapid 2.8% per year.
1.06      The other element of dualism in the economy is a foreign-Swazi
dichotomy even within the modern sector. In the past there has been a heavy
reliance on foreign capital and expatriate skills for the development of the
modern sector. The growth of Swaziland's education system has now reduced
the degree of reliance on expatriates but in 1977 they still accounted for



39% of all the jobs requiring a secondary or higher education. There has
also been a heavy reliance on external finance for promoting the development
of Swaziland's largely capital intensive industrial sector. Under the Third
National Development Plan, this dependence is likely to continue as is the
industrial sector bias on which the country's overall growth has been based.
Forty six percent of the Plan s proposed US$390 million capital expenditures
is devoted to industry, transport and the construction of a dam. About US$230
million of this will have to be borrowed abroad. Nevertheless, the Government
has also attempted to promote increased Swazi participation in industrial
sector growth through the National Industrial Development Corporation and
the Sma'll Enterprises Development Company which train and provide "workshop
shells" for prospective entrepreneurs.
The Manpower Situation
1.07      The current manpower situation in Swaziland has evolved from a
generalized shortage of skilled indigenous manpower that characterized the
modern sector during the 1960s to a more complex situation. A manpower
survey prepared by the Government in 1978 analyzes the present situation and
projects future demand and supply. According to the survey, expatriates
predominate in particular in the technical, physical science and business
management fields. To meet the challenge of increased Swazi participation in
the modern sector, the secondary and higher education system will need to
strengthen its teaching of technical, scientific and management studies.
1.08      At the same time there are not enough modern sector jobs for school
leavers. This situation is expected to continue; from 1977 to 1982, 5,000 of
those who complete junior secondary education and 3,000 of those who complete
senior secondary education will not be able to find jobs in the modern sector
(Annex 1, T-1). Many will seek jobs outside the modern sector, and it will be
necessary for others to take jobs at levels lower than their aspirations. The
formal and nonformal education systems at the lower levels are being restruc-
tured to reflect the changing employment situation through improved training
in agriculture, industrial arts, basic science, and civics.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Educational Policies and Plans
2.01      Since 1973 Swaziland's educational system has expanded rapidly and
the Government has initiated an ambitious program of qualitative improvement.
Enrollment in primary education of 97,000 is now equivalent to 92% of the
school age population. Enrollment in junior secondary education, at 16,000,
is now equivalent to 40% of children aged 13 to 15 and increased 54% from 1973
to 1977. Over the same period of time, enrollments increased 60% in upper



secondary education and 138% at the University of Botswana and Swaziland.
Adult literacy rates (65%) and enrollment rates of the school age population
are now higher than in most African countries (Annex 1, C-1 and T-2).
2.02      In 1973, the National Education Commission formulated Swaziland's
long-term goals for education. The Third National Development Plan, 1978-
1982, has reaffirmed these goals, which are (a) provision of universal
primary education (UPE) by 1985; (b) expansion of junior secondary education
to provide ultimately a full ten years of basic education to children who
complete primary education; and (c) expansion of upper secondary education,
university education, and technical and vocational training on the basis of
manpower needs.  The Government has also initiated an ambitious curriculum
reform program designed to reorganize the primary school curriculum and
prepare primary school learning materials in accordance with Swaziland's
environment and needs; to provide a practical, terminal junior secondary
education to the majority of those who have completed primary education;
and to strengthen scientific and technical training at all levels to meet
identified manpower needs.
2.03      In broad outline, these goals are appropriate for Swaziland and
with some modifications of specific targets they are financially feasible.
However, their achievement may be hampered by inadequate management and
administration of the system as a whole and of some key institutions, parti-
cularly those in vocational training, curriculum reform, and non-formal
education. In addition, major programs of materials preparation and teacher
training are required to implement the proposed new curricula.
Structure, Administration, and Planning
2.04      The formal education system in Swaziland consists of seven years
of primary education, three years of junior secondary education, two years
of senior secondary education, and two to five years of higher education
(Annex 1, C-2). Entrance to senior secondary schools and the university is
through competitive examinations. Primary and junior secondary teachers are
trained at the senior secondary level; senior secondary teachers are trained
in a post-secondary program or at the university.
2.05      The Ministry of Education (MOE) has administrative, financial, and
academic control of primary, secondary, and teacher education, and is also
officially responsible for the autonomous University of Botswana and Swaziland
(UBS). The MOE is also responsible for the non-formal programs of the Sebenta
National Institute (literacy training), the Swaziland International Education
Center (SIEC) (correspondence education and vocational training), and the
Rural Education Centers (RECs) (adult basic education). The Swaziland College
of Technology (SCOT), the main technical and vocational training institute, is
under the Deputy Prime Minister's Office and is poorly coordinated with the
MOE. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture administers farming training
centers and the Department of Establishments and Training in the Prime
Minister's office is responsible for in-service training of civil servants
through the Swaziland Institute for Management and Public Administration
(SIMPA). In general non-formal education programs are uncoordinated and
efforts to avoid duplication have not been successful.



-4-
2.06      The MOE itself is divided into professional and administrative
departments (Annex 1, C-3). The Director of Education is responsible for
all professional matters, including curriculum, teacher training, planning
and the inspectorate. There are no central departments to set policy in
teacher training, non-formal education and curriculum development. The
quality of personnel in the MOE has improved through bilateral and multi-
lateral support of training programs; however, turnover is high, in part
because of low salaries and also because many staff are not officially
included on the list of established posts and therefore have no tenure.
Primary Education
2.07      Access and Efficiency.  In 1977 enrollment in primary education
was equal to 92% of the school age population. Girls make up about 50% of
enrollment and their pass and completion rates are similar to those of boys.
Among the four districts making up the country, Lubombo, the poorest and most
sparsely populated, presently enrolls only 74% of the school age population
compared to 90% in Hhohho and Shiselweni and almost 100% in Manzini.
2.08      An official policy of restricting repetition has improved primary
school quantitative efficiency significantly. Nonetheless, 11% of school
children repeated the school year in 1976, only 49% of entering students
completed the full seven-year primary school course, and only 70% of children
in the last year of primary school passed the national Primary School Leaving
Certificate (PSLC) examination. Overall the high enrollment ratios make the
provision of a full primary education to all children principally one of
keeping pace with population growth and improving efficiency, which
in turn requires curriculum and educational materials development,
improved teacher training, and additional new physical facilities.
2.09      Curriculum and Educational Materials.  Both curriculum and text-
books at primary levels have few references to Swaziland's social, political,
economic and geographic context. Textbooks must be purchased by children and
their cost is an important factor affecting dropout. Since 1973, a Primary
Curriculum Unit (PCU) assisted by USAID has been operating to revise the
curriculum in line with social and economic development needs, and to develop
appropriate learning materials and teacher training programs. After some
early difficulties, the PCU is now well staffed. It has prepared a draft
curriculum outline, which reduces the number of subjects being taught from
14 to 7, and has pre-tested first grade science and Siswati textbooks. It is
now initiating an ambitious program to develop new curriculum materials for
every primary school subject over a seven-year period, including 47 textbooks
and workbooks and 50 teachers' guides.
2.10      With expected expansion of staff from 15 to 27, the PCU would have
the capacity to implement this ambitious program. The PCU's prototype grade
one science and Siswati textbooks are adequate and a pre-test showed that
learning was significantly improved. However, the curriculum reform process
could be strengthened through integration of the PCU with the Secondary
Curriculum Unit (SCU) and through better coordination with teacher training.
The two curriculum groups, while housed together physically, report separately



-5-
to the Office of the Director of Education. In addition, the PCU program
could be strengthened through additional support of its formative evaluation
activities.
2.11      The PCU has a small print unit capable of producing up to 5,000
copies of short-length books, pamphlets, and teachers' guides. In order to
print books on a national basis and of professional quality, the Government
has signed an agreement with a major international publisher to establish a
local publishing company. The company will be solely responsible for publish-
ing all textbooks and teachers' guides prepared by the PCU and the SCU.
2.12      Teachers and Teacher Training.  in,sf79 I7"4tMai &'hbi2,q0, pfaWy   
scheot teao*w--v.re q              Despite increased output of trained teachers
from William Pitcher Teacher Training College (WPTTC) 1/, Nazarene College,
and a new teacher training school to be financed by EEC, *ts*
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 1 - e-7W..
$n".  At the same time in-service training of all teachers will be
necessary to introduce new curricula and materials and upgrade teaching
skills.  %jt&IV*        tt tegacher                       _Ani&t 1,10
*4    3*fli   4         gt Ga p¢eStIy             tn  W¶          an  /
oste6* Xh$"q#                  t   t1wq,tbstt 1.9$3. 
2.13      Physical Facilities.  Only 53% of all primary schools offer the full
seven year primary cycle, and excessive walking distances to primary schools
with the full seven year cycle are a major cause of dropout from lower grades.
In general, local communities are responsible for school construction.
Building fees often greater than US$25 equivalent per year are charged to
students, but these fees are usually sufficient to construct only one or two
makeshift classrooms per year. Recently the Government has begun to provide a
small amount of funds for construction. A SIDA/Unesco program initiated in
1975 has developed prototype low cost school buildings and constructed 60
classrooms and staff houses throughout the country but the program will phase
out by 1981, after filling only a small proportion of school construction needs.
2.14      Enrollment in primary education is expected to increase from 97,000
in 1977 to 122,500 in 1985 (Annex 1, T-4) and new schools will have to be
constructed for this additional enrollment as well as to replace inadequate
facilities. In August 1979, the MOE completed a school mapping exercise to
determine the physical quality of existing schools and to serve as a guide for
a national school construction program. To reduce capital costs and to
increase the availability of physical facilities, the MOE will introduce
double shifting, where possible, to a limited number of schools in densely
populated areas.
1/   This institution trains both primary and secondary school teachers (See
Annex 1, C-2).



-6-
Junior Secondary Education
2.15      Access and Efficiency.  Junior secondary education is expanding
rapidly in accordance with the Government's long-term policy to establish it
as the upper level of basic education available to all children. Enrollment
in 1977 was 15,900, equivalent to 40% of the population aged 13 to 15, and
had increased 54% from 10,300 in 1973. Girls represent about half of enroll-
ment at this level. About two thirds of those completing primary school enter
the junior secondary school system. Because of a lack of places, junior
secondary school directors restrict entrance to their school on the basis of
geographic proximity and/or examination scores. With support from the first
and second Bank Group education projects (paras. 3.01-3.04), enrollment
opportunities for rural students have improved significantly. Lubombo district
has the lowest enrollment rates (30%) but opening of four new schools in the
district financed under these projects will improve access considerably.
2.16      With expansion of primary school output, social demands for junior
secondary education are expected to continue to grow rapidly, with enroll-
ment in 1985 estimated at 22,800, an increase of 43% over the 1977 figure
(Annex 1, T-4). In order to reach this goal, the MOE is proposing to cons-
truct new schools, expand existing schools, and introduce double shifting
in urban schools. Because of long traveling distances, double shifting is
not feasible in rural areas.
2.17      Quantitative efficiency in junior secondary education is relatively
high but could be improved. About 80% of children are promoted each year and
70% pass the Junior Certificate Examination. However, the quality of instruc-
tion, especially in science, needs to be improved, and training in practical
subjects should be strengthened.
2.18      Curriculum and learning materials.  Until recently, junior secondary
curriculum emphasized academic subjects almost exclusively and was designed
to prepare students for further study at the senior secondary level. In
1975 the Secondary Curriculum Unit (SCU) was established to reform the junior
secondary school curriculum so as to provide educational experiences to the
majority of children who will complete their schooling at this level which
will prepare them for full participation in Swazi economic and social life.
With SIDA/Unesco assistance, the SCU has prepared a curriculum outline which
emphasizes science, agriculture, industrial arts, home economics and "develop-
ment studies" and is preparing detailed syllabi in these and other areas.
Among other innovations, the industrial arts syllabus will replace the present
excessively specialized courses in technical drawing, metal work and woodwork
with an integrated approach to "elementary technology" which will require only
hand tools rather than sophisticated electrical machinery. The development
studies syllabus will integrate history, geography, and civics and emphasize
issues in Swaziland's social and economic development. Widescale implementa-
tion of these programs requires construction and equipping of appropriate
facilities and training of teachers.
2.19       Textbooks in junior secondary schools are imported and have little
relevance to the Swazi environment. The SCU has prepared prototype textbooks
for science and development studies and will test and revise these and other
educational materials over the next five years.



- 7 -
2.20      Teachers and Teacher Training.  About half of all secondary school
teachers are fully qualified and 80% of the qualified teachers are expatriates.
The recent expansion of WPTTC and of SCOT (responsible for training of tech-
nical teachers), and expected increases in output from the University, should
produce about 150 new teachers per year (Annex 1, T-3) over the next ten
years, which would be sufficient to meet needs for both junior and senior
secondary schools, based on enrollment growth, and to reduce dependence on
expatriates. An increase in the present student teacher ratio of 20:1 to
about 25:1 could result in a net reduction of untrained teachers without
affecting quality adversely.
2.21      The quality of the UBS programs to train home economics, agricul-
tural, and academic subject teachers is good. However, the WPTTC program to
train junior secondary teachers is inadequate, in part because of the low
achievement levels of entrants (those with high scores on the School Certi-
ficate Examination attend the University) and the WPTTC is attempting to
improve its training program in conjunction with SCU activities. SCOT has
had difficulties recruiting its quota of 20 students per year for technical
teacher training. In addition, its program should be made more flexible
so that six months to one year of pedagogy could be provided to qualified
artisans and up to three years of training to those with no background in
industrial arts.
2.22      Physical Facilities.  Under Bank Group assisted education projects
(paras. 3.01-3.04), 11 new junior secondary schools have been constructed and
13 existing schools have been expanded and improved; these 24 schools have
science laboratories, practical subjects workshops, and libraries which
are adequate to teach the new curriculum. However, more than half of the
remaining 46 schools lack adequate industrial arts workshops, home economics
workshops, and science laboratories. In addition, most schools do not have
sufficient staff housing, which is necessary, particularly in rural areas,
to attract qualified teachers.
2.23      Few junior secondary schools have boarding facilities.  While this
policy reduces capital and recurrent costs, it has made it more difficult for
children in isolated areas to have access to junior secondary education. The
MOE has remedied this problem by concentrating construction of new schools in
deprived rural areas.
Upper Secondary, Technical, and Higher Education
2.24      According to the Third National Development Plan, enrollments and
programs above the junior secondary level should be based on manpower needs.
Three institutions--senior secondary schools, UBS and SCOT--are the main
suppliers of middle and high level manpower.
2.25      Senior Secondary Schools.  In 1977, 3400 students were enrolled in
senior secondary schools, equivalent to 15% of the population aged 16 to 17.
At present, there is an insufficient number of jobs for those who complete
senior secondary education and do not continue their studies. Expected
expansion of education at this level will result in additional unemployment
of school leavers (see Annex 1, T-1) and those at this level would not be



- 8 -
expected to work in the informal or rural sector. MOE's policy is to control
enrollment growth at this level and to allow only one-third of all junior
secondary school leavers to enter the senior level. Since transition rates
are now 50%, implementation of this policy requires a freeze on enrollment
increases through 1985, which may be difficult to implement given social
demands for additional schooling.
2.26      Only 50% of all senior secondary students pass the School Certifi-
cate Examination given at the end of secondary school, and only 30-40% pass
mathematics, biology and physical science where the greatest manpower short-
ages lie. The curriculum development programs are emphasizing science teach-
ing at the primary and junior secondary levels and MOE is acting to strengthen
science education at UBS and WPTTC to improve the quality of those science
graduates who will become secondary school teachers.
2.27      Swaziland College of Technology.  SCOT is responsible for training
technicians and skilled workers. With Bank Group assistance (paras. 3.01-3.04),
SCOT's physical facilities have improved since 1973 and commercial and catering
courses have begun. However, a study prepared by the Organization for Rehab-
ilitation and Training in 1977 and financed under the first Bank Group educa-
tion project (Credit 518-SW) reported that SCOT did not utilize its facilities
and teachers adequately, was producing an insufficient number of skilled and
semi-skilled workers, while concentrating excessively on the technician level,
and was not training technical subjects teachers adequately and in sufficient
amount. Subsequently a UNESCO review completed in January 1979 reported
similar findings and also noted that SCOT is not coordinating its activities
sufficiently with industry or with the MOE (para 2.05). SCOT is now committed
to strengthening technical teacher training and to expanding output of skilled
and semi-skilled workers. In addition, a team from the Overseas Development
Ministry of the UK (ODM) is expected to visit Swaziland to make proposals for
improving the vocational and technical training system as a whole, with
emphasis on strengthening SCOT's management and efficiency.
2.28      University of Botswana and Swaziland (UBS).  Despite the withdrawal
of Lesotho from the University in 1976, enrollment at the Swaziland campuses
of UBS has expanded rapidly from 270 in 1973 to 704 in 1977, of which 512 are
Swazis. UBS hopes to expand to enrollment of 1,000 by 1982-83, but will
limit growth of academic staff to lower unit costs. While output of agricul-
tural specialists is adequate for manpower needs, output of scientific and
business management specialists is inadequate. UBS is planning to construct
additional science laboratories to enable it to teach the full degree course
in science, which is now partially taught at the campus in Botswana.
Training of Civil Servants
2.29      The Government has recognized a need to upgrade its 7,000 civil
servants and is planning a large scale program to train every employee.
However, SIMPA, the agency officially responsible for training of civil
servants, has inadequate physical facilities and staff. The Institute for
Development Management (IDM), a private institute located in Botswana
and Swaziland, has provided some management training but has not been



- 9 -
sufficiently responsive to Government needs. Government policy is to support
IDM's activities but at the same time to strengthen SIMPA to become an
effective training institute for civil servants. A USAID financed program is
expected to provide specialized personnel and scholarships to strengthen
SIMPA's program. The Government is in the process of analyzing needs for
management training, developing a long-term plan for in-service training of
civil servants, and determining the appropriate roles of participating
agencies.
Nonformal Education and Training of Adults and Out-of-School Youths
2.30      The Ministry of Agriculture provides extension services for rural
adults and operates four farmer training centers to train adult farmers and
rural youths in production methods and girls in home economics. These centers
train 3,500 persons per year but are somewhat underutilized. The Swaziland
International Education Center (SIEC) provides effective correspondence
courses to about 1,500 youths in junior secondary equivalency and provides a
one-year carpentry training course for school leavers. The Sebenta National
Institute provides literacy training and assists in community development.
Sebenta has trained an estimated 19,000 adults since 1972. It has suffered
from a shortage of recurrent funds and it is reported that adults do not
retain their literacy skills in part because of a lack of follow-up training.
The Rural Education Centers (REC) program provides non-formal training to
adults, with emphasis on women, in the seven RECs financed under the first
Bank Group education project. The program is staffed almost entirely by
expatriate volunteers. As part of the first education project and with
assistance from UNDP/Unesco, MOE will evaluate these programs and make pro-
posals for their improvement. One result of this evaluation may be a proposal
to integrate various non-formal education programs into a single non-formal
education department within MOE.
Financing of Education
2.31      Background.  Between 1971 and 1978, Swaziland spent E28.6 million
(in 1978 prices) on the development of its education system, a figure which
was equivalent to 11.6% p.a. of total Government capital expenditures.
Recurrent education expenditures grew in line with the Government's overall
recurrent budget with the share of education remaining roughly constant
at about 18%, a figure which is somewhat lower than in many other African
countries. Student fees and private sources account for 7% of total education
costs at the primary and secondary levels.
2.32      The MOE accounts for 93% of all public recurrent expenditures in
education and training; the remainder is spent by the Deputy Prime Minister's
Office for SCOT and by the Ministry of Agriculture. Within the MOE, primary
education accounts for 36% of total costs, secondary 33%, and the university
18%. Unit recurrent costs are similar to those in other African countries.
At the primary level, 98.5% of all expenditures are for teachers' salaries.
High unit costs at the university level (US$3,016 equivalent per student) can
be expected to drop as enrollment increases.



- 10 -
2.33      Future Expenditures.  The implementation of Government plans for
expanded and improved primary, secondary, higher and non-formal education
requires a commitment from the Government to allocate substantial funds for
both capital development and recurrent costs. Based on MOE projections,
between 1977 and 1985 capital expenditure in education will total about E70.3
million in 1978 prices, most of which would be spent on the construction and
upgrading of primary and secondary schools. As total Government capital
expenditures are also projected to grow rapidly over this period, the share of
the Government's capital budget devoted to education will only show a modest
increase to 14%. This level of capital expenditures is feasible, especially
in view of the fact that a large proportion of it is expected to be financed
from external sources. In 1978 alone, external capital assistance for Swazi-
land's educational sector totalled E7.8 million.
2.34      With regard to recurrent expenditures, total enrollment in the
system is expected to grow from 121,000 in 1978 to 152,000 in 1985. Further-
more the MOE is proposing the following qualitative improvements: (a) a
reduction of the student teacher ratio in primary education from 36:1 to 35:1;
(b) an increase in non-salary expenditures in primary education from 1.5% to
10%; (c) an increase in non-salary expenditures at the secondary level from
14% to 20%; (d) full Government support of Nazarene Teacher College (now
partially financed with private funds); and (e) an average 3% real growth
in teachers' salaries. On this basis, real recurrent expenditure would grow
at 11% per year and the percentage of the recurrent budget devoted to educa-
tion and training would increase from 18% in 1978 to 25% in 1985 (Annex 1,
T-5). This proportion of expenditure on education would be difficult to
achieve in Swaziland given competing demands from other sectors. However if
no real growth of teachers' salaries is assumed, then 1985 expenditures would
be only 22% of the total recurrent budget. An increase in pupil teacher
ratios to 40:1 at the primary level and 25:1 at the secondary level could
further reduce 1985 expenditures and result in an education recarrent budget
equivalent to 19% of the total government budget. Some combination of control
of teachers' salaries and an increase in student teacher ratios as mentioned
above will be necessary in order to ensure the attainment of enrollment
targets and of goals of increased expenditure on non-salary items. This
question would be discussed and monitored during future super-vision missions.
2.35      The lack of comprehensive and reliable national accounts data for
Swaziland makes the relationship of education expenditures to gross domestic
product a tenuous one.  Nevertheless, on the basis of recent estimates of GDP,
the share being devoted to education appears high--6.1% in FY1977. This
figure will rise to 8.5% in 1985, assuming an annual real GDP growth rate of
6.3% and Government education budget equal to 19% of total Government recurrent
expenditure.



- 11 -
III. BANK EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN SWAZILAND
First and Second Education Projects
3.01      The Bank Group has financed two education projects in Swaziland
and has had a major role in educational development. The first education
project (Credit 518-SW, 1974) provides US$5 million for expansion of SCOT and
WPTTC, establishment of a curriculum development and educational materials
center, construction of four in-service training centers (Teacher Innovation
and Distribution Centers - TIDCs), construction of seven rural development
centers (RECs) to provide both junior secondary education and nonformal
training in rural areas, and provision of computer equipment to the National
Testing and Employment Service. Physical implementation of the project has
been rapid; only a small amount of equipment remains to be procured and
additional technical assistance utilized. The project is expected to close as
scheduled in December, 1980. After some delay, Swazis have taken over major
responsibility for implementing the project and a Swazi director of the PIU
was named in May 1979.
3.02      On the basis of preliminary review of the first education project,
many, but not all, of the educational objectives have been achieved. Under
the project, SCOT has established commercial and catering courses; however,
total enrollment at SCOT is 400 rather than the objective of 700 estimated in
the appraisal report, since SCOT has not expanded its skill training courses
as projected. SCOT has additional problems of management, curriculum, and
coordination (para. 2.27). After some early difficulties, the PCU and SCU
groups at the curriculum development center are working well and have produced
good prototype materials. As noted in para. 2.10 above, there is a need
to combine the PCU and the SCU into a single curriculum department and to
improve coordination with teacher training. The junior secondary programs at
seven RECs supported under the project are basically satisfactory. In addi-
tion, the technical teacher training program at SCOT has been inadequate in
both its recruitment of students and its curriculum (para. 2.21), and some
schools do not yet have technical subjects teachers. The nonformal education
programs have begun in most of the RECs. These programs are successful in
reaching women, but vocational training for out-of-school youths has not yet
begun, and there is an overlap with other nonformal agencies. The Government
is actively addressing these problems, which are expected to be gradually
resolved.
3.03      The second education project (Loan 1478-SW, 1977) provides US$4
million to expand thirteen existing junior secondary schools through provision
of science laboratories, workshops, libraries and staff housing, to construct
four new junior secondary schools in rural areas, and to provide buildings and
equipment for the agricultural teacher training program at the UBS. Civil works
in the project are slightly behind schedule and, after some initial delays,



- 12 -
procurement of equipment and furniture is moving forward. Equipment lists
have been modified to take into account the new curriculum being developed by
the SCU. The project, as outlined, is expected to achieve its overall objec-
tive of qualitative improvement of junior secondary education. These goals
are modest compared to those of the first project. However, the utilization
factor of physical facilities being provided under the project is somewhat
lower than the optimum, in part because of requirements of the old curriculum.
In the proposed third education project the metal and woodwork shops would be
combined into a single workshop (in accordance with the new curriculum) and
the library would be programmed for partial utilization as a classroom, thus
eliminating the need for an additional classroom.
Bank Sector Knowledge, Objectives, and Strategy
3.04      The Bank's knowledge of the education sector is good.  A Bank
mission completed a sector survey in 1976, the MOE itself has produced a
number of useful diagnostic studies of the system, including a manpower
study, and MOE is now completing a tracer study of secondary school leavers.
In late 1978, Unesco conducted an in-depth review of the education and training
sector, which includes detailed recommendations for expansion and improvement
of the system. Bank education missions have regularly visited the country and
participated in a continuing fruitful dialogue with government ofEicials over
policy questions.
3.05      The Bank's long-term objective is to continue to support the Govern-
ment's educational goals as articulated in the Third Development Plan, since
these goals are appropriate and feasible for a country of Swaziland's level of
development. In supporting these goals, the Bank would take into account the
considerable bilateral and multilateral technical assistance available in
Swaziland and the Bank's comparative advantage in financing capital construc-
tion and equipment programs.
3.06      In terms of capital construction, SIDA has supported an experimental
primary school building program (para. 2.12), EEC and ODM are supporting con-
struction at UBS, and EEC will support construction of offices for IDM adjacent
to SIMPA. The Bank is the principal international agency able to provide
financial assistance for large construction and equipment programs at the
primary and secondary level. Despite this expected emphasis on capital
construction, the Bank would continue to regularly review, evaluate and
monitor the key activities in curriculum development, teaching materials, and
training leading to qualitative improvement and undertaken with assistance
from various bilateral and multilateral agencies.
3.07      Specifically, the Bank would continue its policy, begun under the
first and second education projects, of support to junior secondary education
to enable additional junior secondary schools to be expanded and Equipped so



- 13 -
that they are able to teach the new curriculum with its emphasis on science
and practical subjects. The curriculum center supported under the first
education project would receive additional facilities to support the activities
of its enlarged staff. Further assistance to SCOT and the RECs, both supported
under the first education project, is not appropriate at this time and is
under review for possible future assistance. In the case of SCOT, management
problems described in para 2.27 need to be resolved before the vocational
training system can be expanded.   Further assistance to the RECs is dependent
on Government review of non-formal education and establishment of a long-term
policy in this sub-sector.
3.08      A new major Bank priority is that of support to primary education.
The Government is strongly committed to the improvement and expansion of
primary education and needs for construction of new primary schools are great.
In addition, curriculum and materials development at the PCU has advanced
sufficiently to expect production of new textbooks over the next few years.
3.09      In recognition of the management problems encountered by the first
and second education projects as well as by other development programs being
implemented in Swaziland, Bank policy would also focus on strengthening over-
all management capacities of civil servants, through providing additional
facilities to SIMPA. Assistance in both primary education and management
training would be based on discussions with the Government with regard to
counterpart staffing and appropriate organization of these sub-sectors as
well as on close coordination with external agencies providing technical
assistance.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
4.01      The objectives of the third education project are to assist the
Government in improving access, efficiency and relevance of primary and
junior secondary education and in improving the management capacity of civil
servants. Specially, the project includes the following:



- 14 -
Level and ObJective                  Item               Principal Beneficiaries
Primary Education
Improved access,      1.  Construction, furnishing    13,000 primary school
efficiency and            and equipping of 31 new       students 1/
relevance                 primary schools and expan-
sion of 12 existing primary
schools for a total of about
11,000 student places
2.  Provision of about 1.1        110,000 primary
million textbooks and        school students
78,000 teachers guides
Junior Secondary Education
Improved access,      3.  Expansion and improved        3,600 junior secondary
efficiency and            facilities for 10             students
relevance                 existing junior secondary
schools and expansion of
enrollment from 2,400 to
3,600
4.  Construction, furnishing    1,440 junior secondary
and equipping of six new    students
junior secondary schools
with 1,440 student places
Curriculum Development
Improved efficiency  5.  Extensions to the Primary   25 professional staff
and relevance of          and Secondary Curriculum    members
primary and junior        Units
secondary education
6.  Construction, furnishing    800 teachers
and equipping of an in-
service training center
and district offices
in Manzini
Management Training
Improved management  7.  Expansion and improvement   1,500 civil servants
capacity of civil         of SIMPA                      per year
servants
Education System      8.  Evaluation and pre-invest-
ment studies
1/   Including students in existing schools.



- 15 -
Overall, the project would provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipping and improving of about 14,000 primary and junior secondary places,
the construction of about 270 staff houses and the provision of dormitory
space fo- 26 students at SIMPA.
Primary Education
4.02      New Primary Schools.  The project would support the construction,
furnishing and equipping of 31 new primary schools and expansion of 12 exist-
ing schools for a total increase of about 11,000 student places. The addi-
tional students to be enrolled would be equal to 11% of present enrollment
and more than half of expected enrollment growth to 1985.
4.03      The MOE's criteria for locating schools have been reviewed and found
satisfactory. Priority is given to areas where walking distances to existing
schools are greater than five kilometers, where potential enrollment in the
catchment area is at least 280 students, and where population is expected to
grow. Where appropriate, incomplete primary schools would be expanded to
offer the full seven-year primary course. On the basis of the above criteria
and a school mapping study completed August, 1979, the MOE identified locations
for the 43 new or expanded schools. During negotiations these
proposed school locations were be reviewed and agreed upon.
4.04      Each new primary school to be constructed under the project would
consist of seven classrooms, each with capacity for 40 students, an open
multipurpose area, a small administration block, an ablution area, and four or
five staff houses. Existing primary schools would be upgraded to this standard.
The multipurpose room would be used for the teaching of agriculture and home
economics, for physical education during rainy days, for school meetings, and
for adult meetings and non-formal education after school hours. Four houses
would be provided in urban and densely populated rural areas and five houses
would be provided in isolated rural areas. This amount of housing is essential
to attract trained teachers and is in accordance with Government policy.
Equipment for the schools would include a small set of library books, maps,
simple science equipment, office equipment, including a typewriter and a
duplicating machine, home economics equipment, including manual sewing machines,
agricultural implements, and seeds for a school garden.
4.05      Primary School Textbooks.  The project would support the production
and distribution to all primary school children of new textbooks and teachers
guides produced over the project period. The PCU has already tested first
grade Siswati and science textbooks and will distribute these books and
accompanying teachers guides by January 1980, with financing from the second
education project. The PCU has established a plan for preparation, production,
and distribution over a seven year period, beginning in 1980, of textbooks in
English, arithmetic, science, and Siswati and of teachers guides in these and
other subjects in the curriculum. The project would support the costs of
four years of the program beginning in 1981 when start-up costs would be
highest, during which time about 1.1 million books and 78,000 teachers guides
would be produced and distributed.



- 16 -
4.06      The books would be published by a recently established local
national publishing house, under an agreement with a private international
publisher (para. 2.11). The publisher would provide all essential editorial
and artistic services to prepare PCU material for professional printing, which
would be done under contract to the publishing house. The publisher would
deliver books to the four district education offices, which have adequate
storage space, and thereafter local district officers would be responsible for
further distribution, using vehicles purchased under the proposed project.
4.07      The MOE is presently discussing with SIDA the financing of an
in-service teacher training program which would have as one of its objectives
the training of teachers in the new curriculum and in utilization of new
textbooks (para. 2.12). Training would take place at WPTTC and at the
district level. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it
would use its own or other resources to implement the in-service training
program. To ensure coordination in curriculum development activities, by
January 1, 1981, the MOE would establish an integrated curriculum development
department to include the PCU and the SCU. In addition, by January 1, 1982,
the Government would prepare a plan satisfactory to the Bank to finance
primary school textbooks after completion of the project.
Junior Secondary Education
4.08      Improvement of Existing Schools.  The project would support the
expansion and improvement of ten existing schools located throughout the
country (see map) presently enrolling about 2,400 junior secondary students,
to enable them to teach the proposed new junior secondary curriculum, with its
emphasis on industrial arts, science, home economics, agriculture and develop-
ment studies. Improvement of these schools would bring to 34 the number of
existing schools assisted by World Bank education projects, and, coupled with
Government financed improvement programs, would mean that two thirds of the 70
junior secondary schools would have satisfactory facilities. Priority for
selection was given to schools with the poorest facilities. All of the
schools have enrollment capacity of about 240 (two streams). Three schools
also have enrollment at the upper secondary level, but assistance at this
level would be provided only indirectly through improvement of science
laboratories, libraries, etc. Project assistance would enable each school to
enroll an additional stream of 120 students and thus increase junior secondary
enrollment in the schools by about 1,200 to 3,600.
4.09      Depending on its existing facilities, each school would receive
additional facilities necessary for implementation of the new junior secondary
curriculum. These facilities would include a fully equipped science laboratory,
an industrial arts workshop, a home economics room, a multipurpose room for
sewing and technical drawing, and a multipurpose library/development studies
classroom. Facilities provided would be similar to those in the second
education project, except that, in order to reduce costs, the woodwork and
metal workshops would be combined into a single workshop equipped with hand



- 17 -
tools only and the library would also serve as a classroom (para. 3.03). Each
school would also be provided with additional staff houses to bring the total
number of staff houses to eight, one of which would have three small apartments
with common toilet facilities for three single staff members. Thus 10 out of
the 15 staff members of each three stream school would have adequate on-campus
housing. This amount of housing is the minimum essential to attract qualified
staff in both rural and urban areas.
4.10      New Junior Secondary Schools.  The project would support the cons-
truction of six new two-stream junior secondary schools with a total enroll-
ment of 1,440 (see map). Review of enrollment data has shown that primary
school graduates in these areas do not have adequate access to junior secondary
education. Four of these new schools have already initiated instruction in
makeshift quarters. Each school would have enrollment capacity of 240 (two
streams) and would be provided with the specialized teaching facilities
described above. Five staff houses would be constructed, providing housing
for seven of ten staff members.
4.11       Furniture and equipment to be provided to both new and existing
schools would be based on modifications of the lists prepared and procured
under the second education project in accordance with new curricula. In
particular, the new industrial arts curriculum, with its emphasis on an
integrated approach to "elementary technology," requires only hand tools
rather than machine tools (paras. 2.18 and 3.02).
4.12      Expansion of 10 existing schools and construction of the six new
schools would result in a total enrollment increase of 2,640 in junior secon-
dary schools by 1983, or 16% more than present enrollment of 16,000. This
figure is about 42% of the MOE's projected increases to 22,300 by 1985.
Since for the time being no other major capital building programs are planned,
the MOE will experiment with double shifting in some schools to meet enroll-
ment demands.
4.13      As noted above (para. 2.20), output of teachers from WPTTC, SCOT,
and UBS would be sufficient to meet needs for additional teachers. However,
WPTTC and SCOT need to strengthen the quality of their programs. Bank staff
would monitor this critical area during the course of the project.
Curriculum Development and In-service Training
4.14      The present facilities for curriculum development, located adjacent
to WPTTC and constructed under the first education project, are now inadequate
for the 25 professionals working in the PCU and SCU. Therefore, the project
would support construction, furnishing, and equipping of (a) a library/curri-
culum resources center to be located adjacent to the WPTTC library; (b) con-
version of two classrooms into six offices; and (c) alteration, expansion,
and equipping of the science laboratory and the industrial arts workshop at
WPTTC (to be used jointly by WPTTC and SCU staff members). The project would



- 18 -
also provide eight vehicles to the PCU and regional in-service training
centers (TIDC's). These vehicles would be used in part for delivery of
primary school textbooks financed under the project.
4.15      The project would also finance construction of an in-service train-
ing center and district education offices in Manzini. This center would
include a library, classroom, workroom, and office space for district inspec-
tors and supervisors. It would be similar to the four centers constructed
under the first education project and would replace the center now at WPTTC,
which is underutilized because of its distance from town and would be con-
verted to offices as noted above. The center would serve as a meeting place
for teachers, for in-service training, and for distribution of learning
materials. As noted above (para. 4.07), to ensure adequate coordination,
by January 1, 1981, the MOE would combine the PCU and SCU into a single
integrated curriculum development department.
Management Training
4.16      The project would support the expansion and improvement of SIMPA
facilities to enable SIMPA to train 100 students at any one time, to hold
conferences for 100, and to provide satisfactory boarding facilities for
up to 50 middle and high level officials. Specifically, the project would
provide 26 semi-private dormitory places, a conference room seating 100,
four classrooms and two seminar rooms, four offices, and expansion and
improvement of the library and dining areas. The EEC would finance con-
struction of offices and 24 boarding places for IDM which would be located
adjacent to SIMPA and could be used by SIMPA.
4.17      As noted above, (para. 3.07), IDM and a USAID sponsored program are
expected to provide technical assistance to upgrade SIMPA staff and organize
training programs for civil servants. An estimated 1500 middle and high level
officials would be trained per year. With UNDP assistance the Government
prepared a diagnosis of problems, and is now completing a long-term plan for
strengthening management of SIMPA, implementing the training program, and
coordinating the activities of participating agencies. A condition of dis-
bursement for financing of contracts for civil works, furniture, and equipment
for this component would be completion of this plan which is expected by early
1980.
Studies and Evaluation
4.18      The project would provide funds for evaluation, with emphasis on
additional pre-testing of learning materials, on measurement of the overall
results of non-formal education programs supported under the First Education
Project and of the primary and junior secondary reform, and on preparation of
a project completion report (para. 6.09). In addition funds would be provided
for pre-investment studies leading to future education projects. These
studies would include, inter alia, a study of primary schoo:L fees and a study
of needs for expanded vocational training. The terms of reference and pro-
posed staffing of the studies and evaluation would be satisfactorv to the
Bank.



- 19 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$15.9
million equivalent including duties and taxes estimated at US$0.6 million
equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given
in Annex 1, T-6, and summarized below:



- 20 -
SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Expenditures by Item
% of
Emalangeni (millions)         US (millions)         Base
Item                                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
1.   Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles, and Textbooks
a.  Primary Schools                 1.74       2.41    4.15    2.00    2.77    4.77    39
b.  Primary School Textbooks        0.06       0.51    0.57    0.07    0.59    0.66         5
c.  Expansion of 10 Junior
Secondary Schools            0.99       1.59    2.58    1.13    1.83    2.96    24
d.  Six New Junior Secondary
Schools                      0.70       1.14    1.84    0.81    1.31    2.12    17
e.  Extensions to Curriculum
Units and Establishment of
One New In-Service Center
and District Education
Office                       0.10       0.22    0.32    0.12    0.25    0.37         3
f. Expansion of Swaziland
Institute of Management
and Public Administration  0.13         0.17    0.30    0.15    0.20    0.35         3
Sub-Total                     3.72       6.04    9.76    4.28    6.95   11.23    91
2.   Studies and Evaluation              0.03       0.06    0.09    0.03    0.07    0.10         1
3.   Technical Assistance and
Consultants (i.e., architectural,
engineering, procurement, and
supervisory services)               0.12       0.52    0.64    0.14    0.60    0.74        7
4.   Project Administration
(including equipment)              0.05       0.12    0.17    0.05    0.14    0.19         1
Total Baseline Costs          3.92       6.74   10.66    4.50    7.76   12.26   100
(October 1979)
5.   Contingencies
a.  Physical (9%)                  0.35       0.62    0.97    0.40    0.71    1.11
b.  Price Increases (19%)           0.79       1.41    2.20    0.90    1.63    2.53
Sub-Total                     1.14       2.03    3.17    1.30    2.34    3.64
Total Project Cost (1-6)    5.06         8.77   13.83    5.80   10.10   15.90 1/
1/   Includes taxes, estimated at US$0.60 million equivalent.



- 21 -
5.02      Cost Estimates.  The construction costs for junior secondary schools,
SIMPA, and the Curriculum Center are based on recent competitive bidding and
contract awards in the second education project. Construction costs for
primary schools are based on expected simplification of designs used in recent
primary school construction programs. Unit costs for new secondary schools
average US$160 per sq. meter and are comparable to other East African countries
(e.g., Malawi, 1979, US$190 per sq. meter; Kenya, 1978, US$190; Mauritius,
1978, US$273; Tanzania, 1977, US$233; Lesotho, 1977, US$200). The unit costs
of construction for primary schools are US$95 per sq. meter for school buildings
and are also comparable to other East African countries where these schools
have been commercially constructed (e.g., Kenya, 1978, US$105 per sq. meter;
Burundi, 1977, US$80; Sudan, 1978, US$152). In some countries, savings are
made through self-help construction of primary schools; however, Swaziland
does not have a tradition of self-help construction. Housing costs are
equivalent to 41% of all primary school costs and 25% of all secondary school
costs. These percentages are justified by the need to attract qualified
teachers and are in accordance with Government policy. Schedules of accommoda-
tion have been prepared for all project institutions and are functional and
appropriate to educational objectives. Estimates of equipment and furniture
costs are based on information obtained during implementation of the second
education project. Unit costs per student place (not including housing) are
US$250 for primary schools and US$1120 for new secondary schools, which are
low compared to other Bank supported projects. Textbook prices are based on
publishers' estimates of the cost of textbooks and teachers guides and are
similar to costs in other African countries. About 8 staff years of technical
assistance, estimated at US$50,000 per staff-year are included in the project.
5.03      Custom Duties and Taxes.  Swaziland forms a custom union with
Botswana, Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa. Import duties and sales
taxes are not levied on government purchases of furniture, equipment, and
textbooks. Construction materials originating within the customs union are
tax free. Reimbursement percentages have been calculated to take into account
duties and taxes on civil works and on limited purchases of locally procured
off-the-shelf construction materials, furniture and equipment. Taxes are
estimated at US$0.60 million equivalent.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base costs for civil works, consultants and textbooks and 5% for
furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, project administration,
and studies. Estimated price increases are based upon the application of the
following annual percentage rates of price escalation from the base cost date
(October 1979) in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 1,
C-6).
1979      1980       1981-84
Civil works                              12%        10%        8%
Furniture, equipment, vehicles,
textbooks, and other project
components                              6.5%      6%         6%



- 22 -
The estimated price increases for civil works are based upon recent trends
and forecasts by the Ministry of Works and the Project Implementation Unit
which have been reviewed by the Bank Group staff and found reasonable. Price
increases for other items are based on expected world wide trends at the
time of appraisal.  Total price increases are equal to 19% of the base cost
plus physical contingencies.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component, esti-
mated at US$10.1 million equivalent or 63% of the total project cost, including
contingencies, has been calculated as follows: (a) civil works 56%; (b)
furniture 70%; (c) equipment, vehicles, textbooks, and technical assistance
90%; (d) consultants, studies, and project administration 70%.
Financial Plan
5.06      The total project cost of US$15.9 million equivalent would be
financed by an IBRD loan of US$10.1 million equivalent representing about 63%
of total project cost and by the Government of Swaziland, which would finance
from its own resources the remaining cost of US$5.9 million equivalent, as
follows:
US$ Million
Govt.       IBRD           Total
1.   Civil Works                           4.0          5.0             9.0
2.   Furniture                             0.1          0.4             0.5
3.   Equipment and Vehicles                0.1          1.0             1.1
4.   Textbooks                             0.3          0.4             0.7
5.   Studies and Evaluation                0.0          0.1             0.1
6.   Technical Assistance and
Consultants (i.e., architectural
and engineering services)           0.1          0.6             0.7
7.   Project Administration                0.1          0.1             0.2 1/
8.   Unallocated                           1.1          2.5             3.6
TOTAL                                 5.8         10.1            15.9
of which taxes                        0.6           -              0.6
5.07      In any year during project implementation, the maximum government
capital contribution to the project inclusive of taxes is not expected to
exceed US$2.0 million equivalent. This is 2% of the 1977 capital develop-
ment budget of the Government or 15% of the education capital budget. Recur-
rent costs generated by the project are estimated at about US$1.8 million p.a.
when the project is fully operative; this would be equivalent to about 9% of
the projected MOE recurrent budget by 1985 and 24% of the increase in the
budget from 1977 to 1985. These increases are expected to be within the
government's financial capacity (see also paras. 2.34 and 2.35).
1/   Includes local transportation for furniture, equipment, and textbooks.



- 23 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
6.01      The project would be implemented over a period of about four years
after the date of loan effectiveness including six months for completion of
payments and withdrawals from the loan account (Annex 1, C-4). This estimate
is based on rapid implementation of secondary school construction under the
two previous education projects and on expectation of a somewhat slower
implementation schedule for the construction of primary schools, many of
which are in remote areas of the country.
6.02      Administration.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), already
established within the Ministry of Education under the first education proj-
ect, would administer the proposed third project. The present professional
staff includes a recently appointed Swazi Project Director, a Swazi accountant,
and an expatriate architect. The Government would consult with the Bank
before final selection of a new Project Director whenever this position falls
vacant.
6.03      Consultants and Technical Assistance (Architectural, Engineering,
Procurement, and Supervision). The Ministry of Works (MOW) would provide
engineering services free of charge to the project, but, because of staff
constraints, would be unable to assist in architectural design and supervision
of project components. The proposed project would therefore include financing
of consultants' services for quantity surveying and supervision of civil works
as well as technical assistance for architectural design and furniture and
equipment procurement. The qualifications, experience, and terms and condi-
tions of employment of these specialists would be satisfactory to the Bank.
In the event that civil servants can undertake these responsibilities, funds
for technical assistance and consultants would be subject to cancellation or
used for other project related items.
6.04      School Design and Construction.  Primary school construction would
be based on a simplified design to be prepared by the PIU's architects benefit-
ting from actual experience with ongoing MOE and SIDA primary school building
programs (para. 2.13). Contracts for primary schools would be tendered and
awarded in five groups. Secondary schools would be constructed on the basis
of standardized designs developed under the second education project and
contracts would be tendered and awarded in three groups.
6.05      Site Selection.  Primary schools would be located in areas without
adequate access to schools and in areas of existing inadequate and overcrowded
facilities. Land would be provided free of cost to the project. During nego-
tiations the MOE provided information on locations for 31 new and 12 expanded
primary schools (para. 4.03). Sites for expansion of junior secondary schools,
the curriculum development center and SIMPA are owned by the Government or by
church groups and are satisfactory. Five of the sites for new junior secondary
schools have been selected and are satisfactory.



- 24 -
Procurement
6.06      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, and
textbooks estimated at about US$13.1 million equivalent, including contingen-
cies, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement. Estimated
contracts equivalent to US$1.3 million, including contingencies, would be
procured as follows:
(a) civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000
equivalent each for expansion of existing primary schools and
for construction of isolated new primary schools would be
awarded through competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
value of such contracts would be about US$1.0 million equivalent
including contingencies;
(b) furniture, equipment, and vehicle contracts estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 equivalent each would be awarded through
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. The value of such
contracts would be about US$250,000 equivalent including
contingencies; and
(c) services for transporting furniture, equipment, and textbooks to
school sites would be procured by local procedures acceptable to
the Bank or would be implemented directly by the PIU. The value
of such services would be about US$60,000 equivalent.
Where ICB is used, local manufacturers of furniture and equipment and local
textbook printers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports or the total applicable customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is lower. Based on experience with civil works contracts
under the first and second education projects, it is expected that foreign
bidders not already established in the country would not be attracted to civil
works and these contracts would be won by locally registered firms.
6.07      The architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture and equipment and vehicles, including proposed grouping,
would be reviewed by the Bank staff. Items would be grouped, to the extent
practicable, to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement.
Review of tender documents by the Bank prior to award would be required only
for civil works contracts of US$250,000 equivalent and above and for furniture,
equipment, vehicles and textbook contracts of US$50,000 equivalent and above.
Disbursements
6.08      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-7) would be on the basis of: (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported furniture and equipment and for
textbook printing undertaken outside Swaziland; (b) 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured furniture and equipment and locally printed
textbooks; (c) 70% of total expenditures for locally procured imported



- 25 -
furniture and equipment; (d) 100% of foreign and 70% of local expenditures for
technical assistance, consultants, and studies; (e) 70% of total expenditures
for project administration and local transportation of furniture, equipment,
and textbooks; and (f) 56% of total expenditures for civil works. During
negotiations it was agreed that the proposed loan would finance the costs
of textbook printing, which would include the manufacturing and shipping of
textbooks and teachers' guides after delivery of camera ready copy to a
printer. Under the project the Government would finance costs of planning,
layout, design, typesetting, editorial assistance, stocking, overhead, and
other costs associated with publishing textbooks and teachers' guide. Because
of the numerous small items involved, disbursements for project administration,
studies, and local transportation of furniture and equipment would be made
against certificates of expenditure, documentation for which would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by the Government for inspection by
the Bank during project supervision. All other disbursements would be fully
documented.
6.09      Auditing.  Project expenditures would be audited on an annual basis,
with particular attention to disbursements made against certificates of
expenditure, in accordance with accepted auditing principles by a Government
appointed auditor satisfactory to the Bank. Audit reports should be provided
to the Bank within six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
In order to accelerate implementation of the project retroactive financing not
exceeding US$100,000 is recommended for project administration and for the
services of architectural consultants after July 31, 1979.
6.10      Project Completion.  The project is expected to be completed by
September 30, 1983, with a Closing Date of June 30, 1984. Not later than
six months after the closing date, the Government would provide the Bank with
a report which evaluates the execution, initial operations, costs and benefits
of the proposed project, the performance of the Government and the Bank, and
lessons learned during project implementation.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      At both the primary and secondary levels the proposed project would
help to provide greater access to education for rural and underprivileged
children through provision of 11,000 places at the primary level and 2,640
places at the junior secondary level. The construction program for primary
schools emphasizes selection of school locations where children have poor
access to primary education or where there is severe overcrowding. The six
new junior secondary schools would be located in rural areas with inadequate
access to secondary education, and 8 out of the 10 existing secondary schools
to be improved would be located outside the three main cities.
7.02      The proposed project would also improve the efficiency and relevance
of education and training. At both the primary and secondary levels new
curricula are being introduced which would better provide Swazi childen with



- 26 -
the basic skills needed for them to contribute to Swazi social and economic
development. Assistance to SIMPA would specifically strengthen management and
administration of the Swazi economy through support of training programs for
civil servants. Improved primary and secondary school facilities and related
teacher training and educational materials would improve promotion rates and
achievement, especially in science.
7.03      The proposed project would continue the focus on institution building
introduced under the first education project. In particular, through further
support to the curriculum development center, the project would strengthen the
capacity to prepare appropriate curricula and learning materials, and, through
continued support to the PIU, the project would strengthen the capacity for
physical implementation of school construction projects. The project would
also assist in the establishment of a new, permanent program for mass produc-
tion of educational materials.
Risks and Uncertainties
7.04      The Swazi Government is fully committed to project goals and has the
active assistance of numerous bilateral and multilateral agencies and there-
fore the project faces no special risks. The effects of curriculum reform are
difficult to measure because of complexity of the factors affecting school
efficiency and relevance. Support included in the project for evaluation
programs will provide measurement of some of these effects. A possible
obstacle to achievement of certain project goals lies in the structure and
organization of the curriculum units of the MOE (para. 4.15) and the quality
of personnel and programs at institutions such as SIMPA (para. 4.17) and SCOT
(para. 2.27). These would be minimized through the integration of the cur-
riculum units and coordination with teacher training, through technical assis-
tance and training provided by other international and bilateral agencies, and
through implementation of studies to be undertaken on the needs and the
organization of vocational and nonformal education.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a) implementation of an in-service training program for primary school teach-
ers (para. 4.07); (b) establishment of a curriculum development department to
include the PCU and the SCU (paras. 4.07 and 4.15); (c) preparation of a plan
for financing the textbook program for primary schools after the project is
completed (para. 4.07); and (d) preparation of a report which evaluates the
execution, initial operations, costs, benefits of the proposed project, the
performance of the Government and the Bank, and lessons learned during project
implementation (para. 6.09).
8.02      A condition of disbursement for financing of contracts for civil
works, furniture and equipment for SIMPA would be completion of a long-term
plan for strengthening management of SIMPA, implementing training programs at
SIMPA, and coordinating activities of participating agencies (para. 4.17).



- 27 -
8.03      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$100,000 is recommended for
project administration and for the services of architectural consultants
(para. 6.09).
8.04      Subject to the above condition, the proposed project is recommended
for an IBRD loan of US$10.1 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Swaziland,
with a repayment period of 20 years, including a five-year grace period.



SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Expected Supply and Demand for Skilled Employment, 1982-83
Minimum Required Education
Primary                Secondary                   Higher
Standard 5    Form 1 aor m3    PormI5              iDegFee
1976-77
Swazis in Post                                        3,113          901       6,735      2,826            362       1
Non-Swazis in Post                                      239          147         771      1,292            755      X
1982-83
Expected total demand                                 5,300        1,600      11,400      6,300          1,700
Swazis remaining from 1976-77                         1,800          800       6,100      2,500            300
Additions from education and training, 1976-82 1/   6,500          8,700      10,200      7,100            700
Surplus or shortage                                  +4,000      +7,900      + 4,900    +3,300             700
1/ Assumes 75% participation rate from Standard 5, Form 1 and Form 3, 85% from Form 5, and 95% from degree
level education.
Source:   Ministry of Finance, "Skills for the Future" and UNESCO, "Swaziland, Education and Training
Sector Review"-
Date:     May 25, 1979
I-



-29-
COMPAATIV   EDUCTIONINOICTORSAnnex  1
Table T-2
AUGUST 21.  1979                              ~~~Page- 1
GNP/   %GNP         TDA:        KPUBLIC :                    :PRI. :AVd.PRI.                                    -SEC
:CAPITA: OEVOTEDPUSLIC    ROUCATION    :LITIR-   PRZ. :COMPLE- :STU- ;SCH.TEACM:PROGRESS-- SEC    STU- :HIGHER:
AT     TO r   OU.    lYP.   REXCURROENT    :ACY     :ENAOLL:TION       :OENTS:SALARY,IN: ION RATE  ENROLL.DEN4TS:ENROLL:
MA RkET: (PUBLIC OEVOTEO:EX   ALLOCATED:  RATE  RATtO  R;ATESFOR;PECH RE LATION  :FROM PRI.:RATIO  PER    RATIO  
POP.   PRICES: EXP.          To           TO:       :(% OF    NET   :PAl.SCM. :TEA        TO GN49/ :TO SEC. : NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
,R:33ILLS.: (USS1): ONLY)        EDU. :991. SEC. HI. ACULTS):  MS   :C'iCLE(%):ER              CAPITA       M4               : il ER   (Ii!
31)      (2)      (3)        (A)          (5)       :  6)      (7)       (3()              (10)       (II)       (12)   '(13)  (14)
AD VANC ED
A-US_TRIA        74    7.SG 5.6200       5.3Y    8.3EV   24Y  Sly   ISV    99        s6        930      26D       2.00       990       510     190    16.81Y
CANAOA           73  22.8  7.1325        7.3    16.7      30    27.  261   96        99        97        19       2.0        99        90       is     16.00
GERMANY K.R,P.75   6i.5S 6,70            5.0    10.2      3IEY 64k-26        99      90        99        23Ev      ...       99K       64K     22C    20.2eV
JAPAN            73 133.6  4.430         4.3E  20.73    A0UY 37UY  IIUY  99          990       99C       25       2.06       99C       95*V    20C    24.69Y
NETHERLANDS    73   13.7  3.433          9.4    22.40    21   22   23        99      95        95        29       2.0        97        90      20      12.00
NEW ZEALANO    73   3.30 4.2000          5.2    ..        39   24   29       99      99        99        26        ...       99        57       i9     24.00
NORWAY           '6   4.0  1,0-72        7.2    14.4      54    24    is    99       99        99        16        1.5       991       32      II      11.00
SWEDEN           73   B."  C.=0          5.1    14.0      22   29    32    99        99        99        16       ..         907       $SC     13     30.OOC
UJ.K.            75  50.0  3.780         7.1    33.3      36m   41    3 a    99      99        ...       24       2.0        ...       SS       3 7    2I.OOX
U.S.A.           76 214.6  7.950         5.4    13.1  ..        72g. 28      99E     99        99        22        . ..      99        93       19     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE           76    9.1  2.590        2.6    10.4      37   298   21      565     99        820       31      2.0         70E       80      2 7     13,00
IRELANO          74    3. IG 2.620G      5.1   t3.90    43K  4ly  14dY    98        108XY      99A      25       . ..        95A      6533K    19      15.47Y
PORTUGAL         77   9.7   3.850        3.6    35.4      Ai   23    1 5      00       62      60-       19      2.0         75.       35      12       5,00
ROMANIA          73  23.2   1.240        4.0     6.A      36    19   12 3    Si      101       . ..      21      . ..        98        49      22      30.00
SPAIN            7 4  35.80 2.990G       2.48   35. 24    49Y  22V  381    R4A    iI5XK        . ..     35A      . ..        . ..      7833V    30     3 7 .68Y
AFRICA
ALGERIA          79   17.3  I ,111H      7.4    14.3PY  24   26   21         277     a6        453      28        4.0        55        231     27       6.00
SENIN            74    2.20    3800      7.2N  36 .OY    470  230  300    130        44XY      708      353Y     25.06       438         IITY    2983    O.74Y
BOTSWANA         '79   0.8     540       6.0   22.0       32   22    14    25        sox       70        31       5.0        48        14      22       2.00
SURUNDI          78   4.3      130H      2.7    22.3R   AGR  33R  2IR   25           23X3      .7        22       9.0        22         2*      36      0.5
CAMEROON         79   7.7    2314        2.7   21.5       33   42    20      ..      60        415       52      4.0         20         RD     24       0.9OCK
C.AR.            74    3.SF    220F      2.00   37~00    568   198      ...    79KV            23        69Y     . ..        i8         87K    278KY   0.21K
CHAD             -'3    4.0    120       3.0    30.0      75    22           IS 3    29*8V    20         658Y    15.0         8         2X8K   20       0.018K
CONGO(S)         74    3.3F   510F       6.0    39.2      40   32    21    -307    122*        62       63        6.0        A8        33X     22       2 40
EGYPT            76  28.2    2310        5.9N4   ...      20    22   25      44      76        s0       33        ...        79        43      20       12.00
ETHIOPIA         77  29.0      100       2.4    12.5      44   31    14      30      26        . ..     50        ...        63         8      28           
GASON            74   0.5F 2.540F        3.00  20.80    230   90   lID    ...   bOOY           25C       SOC      8.0        ISA       3i#    2iC       0.29K
GAMBIA           76   0.3      170       3.3    13.5      46   23      6     10      27        90       33       . ..        92        32      258.
GHANA            74   9.9F   390F        *...   39 73y   43V  22K  20K0   .           O033     628       30K     .. .        348       2333i   lacy    i.09K
GUINEA           76   4.7      380F      4.3N0   .        30    31   30      .       3033      64       43       32.OF        66        1233    26       4.00
IVORY COAST   6"    7 0        630      6.8    23        33   d6   132         A     50        86       43        7.0        47        17XY   28        1 64K
KENYA           .76   33 a     240       5.9    26 0      67   23    10    40        807       607       34       5.0        30        is      27          0
LESOTHO          73j   1.2     ¶60      12.00   22.0      49    I8   20      AO      85        30       52        7.ON4      S1        IC      26       3 00
LIBERIA          '35   3.3     430       2.4A   32 2    27    IS   20        72      B8        . ..     35        2.0        .. .   ~ 2        26       1 1OkV
MADAGASCAR       77   8.0      240       4.0   24 0       532   28    19    30       90        22       44        6.0        38        34      23       1 70
MALAWI            7    3.6      340      2. 2    9.3      40    17   22      25      36*       21       63        3.0         9         533    21       0.47
MALI             73j   5.7F     90K      4.2W  33.0KF   4SP  37F   I8F    'OK        22X3K     . ..     4S3F     9.13K       SOP        6K     21        ..
MAURITANIA       71    1.3F   '220F      4.1K   20.0f .......                 OA      ¶7XYK    ---      22A       -...       . ..       3X',  24A4       .
MAURITIUS        76   0.9L    880        4.7    12.3      30   26      a6    SOC     94        99       24        4.3         90       45      22       3.130
MOROCCO          19  35.2      320       6.3    35.2      39R  4OR   t28   28        6533      33       40        . ..       23        177.    22       4.00
NIGERIA          74  75.0F   340F        4.10Y 24.20Y  22K~ 16Y -42K    ...          49XYK    ...       340Y      ...        ...       IOXY    20CY    0.461
RWANDA           31   A.3K    300F       3.2C  28 00....... 22                       32        ...      33        ...        ...        2      33       0.23CY
SENEGAL         7     5.2      420       3.-0   22 0     46   34.   20       10      32        . ..     49       30.0        20        30      21       1.s
SIERRA LEONE  73   3.0K    200K          3.4    23 4      31   36   30       ¶3?     34X       4-5      32        4.0E       se        ¶23X    21      0.5339K
SOMALIA          78    2.6     110       3.0    12.0     69    31   21       607     29*       80       27       32.0        76         3      14       2.10
SUDAN            76   13.9     290       4.5    19.9     46    26    16    20        34        74       32        2.8        23        14      24        1.24
SWAZILANO        7a   03 35 60           6.114  32.2     3 7    33   23      63      92X       49       37        A.OH       66        32X     20        2.00X
TANZANIA         76   33.1     1S0       6.8    17.4     42   21    32    66         T 7X      81       AR        3.0        30         A-     19      0 34
7000             77    2 A     3200      3.3 5 26.3      30    28   23       la      74        40       s8        6.0        32         -      44       2 00
TUNISIA          73    3.70    BOOG      6.2    22.4     37   43    IS       55      72        83       41        6.0        21        14      21       3.00
UGANDA           75S  31.6     230       3.40K  33.70Y  34EY 40EV 22EY'  25A         5333Y     ...      34EY      .. .       I4A        6XCv   21A      0.36Y
UD-ER VOLTA   '~   5.8          318      2.4    23.9      31    16   32       SC      13       23       33       24.0        39         2      23       3.0
ZAIRE            75  25.6      340       6.0    22.0     49    26    25      3-3     sox       44       42X       2.0        41        13X     21     1.00X
ZAMBIA           '9    9 ¶    440        6.8    33!.9    34    22   22       39      97K       80       49        7.0        21        16      23       1 30
CENTRAL AMERICA AND Tli,E CARIBBEAN
BARSADOS         61   0.2   3.620        8.3    22.3      43   31    36    99       106*       99       21        3.0        99        94X     17       ..
COSTA RICA       Is    3.0     960       3.28  22.7e   578  239   128    89S    10933K         638      299       3.08       589       53Kv(   238    37 33K
CUBA             '7B   9.5  9.300        8.0    33.0......    ..             96      95        98       22        2.7        98        63      Is      35.00
DOMINICAN REP 72    4.80   7900          3.0    13.9      42   24    22      31      80        37       54        3.00       63        IA      24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    77   4.1        570       4.0    27.2     64      a5 27       62     8sox       32       39        2.2        43        23      23       7.00
GUATEMALA        73   6.20    7000       3.9    16.0      33    23    14    47       64        26       38        2.0        69         a      235      4.09Y
HAITI            '6    4.7     200       1.0     8.0      61   21    11    208       23K       33        36U      3.0        62         4       .        0.7
HONDURAS         73    2.9G    400G      4.20   18 80   620   13G  19G   532         78        20       35        3.0        68        It      17       4 00
JAMAICA          76    2.3   1.070       9.9    16 2    37,   33   23        866     93        32       39        4.3        94        64      23       7 98
MEXICO           73  39.9  I' 0O         3.300  12.000  311   2EV   32K    76       33233Y     33       46        3.0        63        35X3    23A      9.97Ef
NICARAGUA        74   2.30    7000       2.3     4 2    63      13    33    37       63        21       37        2.0        92        37      24       700
TRINIDAD & T  '        1.1  2.185        4.3    14       48A   32    20      98      98        931      30        3.0        49       63       24
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA           9   S 8a     315F      3 0    37 =K                        38       ''-9     290       24       5K         . ..       48     190(
BRAZIL           '3 'lOOCG  1. 3000      3 0    '2.4      42E  20E   37E  64A        S60       . ..      27CK                . ..      260      35cK    9 006
CHILE            35  I0.20  1.050G       3.2PY 12.BRK' 23K  D0V  3Y    . ..   3l9y~            . ..      35Y      . ..       . ..      483K      .       .3555
COLOMBIA         41  24 20   6900        3.3L, 21_.00   440,` 220K  Ily   73        303*3y    20        33K       4.0        90        3973~   344      B 673
ECADOCR          -5   7.30    7000       3.70   2' -C    . .          . ..   99     30273(     . ..     380                  ---. .    387K    14C
GU'ANA            1   0).!F   510K       5.8N   14 -10   47    35    14    834       93K       39        33       6.0        19        627     24       1.00
PARAGUAY         <     2.60SG            38     I  0    153   13   22        81      82        26        30        1.        S6t       1        12      5 00
PERU             31  16.00    8400       4.201 21 70K   40Y  22'7  137    72        11157      38        390K     3.0       'I0        483K    230K   14 41K
URUGUA,          75    2.90  ,3,70G      2.5    '5 2    46    34    2O       94      93X       . ..      24       . .        83          .      0
E NE ZU ELA     73   32.3G 2.540G       4.6    19.2      300  I80  330   '74        SI        . ..     323       2.4        . ..      33        ..    13 630K



-30-
COMPAATIV  EDUATIO   INDCATOS   (CNTO)Annex  1
AUGUST 21, 1979                                 ~~Table  T-2
Page 2
GNP/   % GNP  IVO1TAL:t  OF PUBLIC                                   PR!-  LV PR,.              ~SEC
CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC   EDUCATION    :LITER-: PR1. ~COMPLE- :STU- :scH.rEACH:PROGRESS-  SEC. ~STU- :HIGHER:
:AT       TO EDU.   E!P.  RECURRENT    ACY         :ENROLL!TION      :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS ENROLL:
MARKET: (PUISLIC:OEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATICN :FROM PR!. RATIO :PER ~RATIO
POP. 'PRICES: EXP.         TO           TO;      A(% OF     NET   YRQI.SCH.-TEACH: TO OANP/  TO` SEC.    NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
(R:NILLS.   MUS): ONLY)         EDJ.  PRI. SEC. HI.:AOULTS): (%         CYCLE(%):ER       CAPITA  :   % M) E                     %
ASTA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3        1800     t.8   11.6    47   19   Is    12          29X      69      .37        3.0G       62       ex      17      1.00
BANGLADESH      73  80.40    900       1.2   20.2    441  221  21Y   230    55A            ...      48D      . ..      ...      23RD    28        .
CHINA(TAIWANI  '3  16.3G i,050G    3.-2   14.0    28   41   22    82             98C      94       40       14.0       84       sic    26    20.00C
INDIA           75 620.40    1400    2.SVY ..          ..-.... 298    GIXY                . . .    434       . ..      . ..     2911    20AY    2.3AEY
INDONESIA       76 130.90    2800      3.0   11.0    26   32   is    a0e    79EX    43E            308       2.0       52E      (REX    '48     2.00
IRAN            '3  23.60. 2.0600    3.3   12.6    508  (68  (28   50            77       74A      32       5.08       8OA      24      32      4.32CY
IRAO            75  11.SG (.390G    6.7C  16.3D  ....... 26C                     93xy     . ..     22        . ..      ...      2511    26C     8.47Y
JORDAN          77   2.3    997        4.5K    7.1K   258  608   3R   70         971      8)       32        2.0       9 1              22      10.60
KOREA           78  37.0  1.242        2.8   17.5    35   29   38    93         102X      94       49        2.-9      91               45-    18.00
LEBANON         7 2   2.20 1.0700      3.5   18.0    39   40   10    ea          s6       65        1 9      2.0       63       25U    25    23.00
MALAYSIA        76  12.5    86Cn       6.7   26.0    42   34   15    SOC         95       93        32       3.7       78       46      28       3.00
NEPAL           76  12.SF    1101      1.1   (0.0    29   20   41        19      59       28        31       2.3       64       14      24      0.8
OMAN            72   0.8F 2.300F       1.7N   3.8    96       -   -      20      24X      99        27F      7.0       . ..     0.4X    9        ..
PAXISTAN        75  71.30    1800      1.6   16.2    45   25   to    21          47X      s0       39        2.0       ...      17x      in     6.00
PAPUA M.G.    75   2.80   4800    5.6   18. 1    38   la   24    32              577      73P      31       11.0       90       12X7   24       0.907
PHILIPPINES   74  43.2G   4200    2.5   14.9    73   Is   12    87              (04X      . ..     34       15.0       . ..     461      . ..   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.30 2.5800       2.7Y   9.21   391  391  171   TEA    10911         724      311       . ..      99A      4AdY   24       7.68Y
SYRIA           75   7.60   8300    3.6'   8.9    39   25   26    83             89       70       35        2.0       92       45      21    12 00
THAILANDO       77  4A.?    AIO1       4.OV  20.0    55   30   is    84F    83            30       35        I-OU      70       38      25      3.00
TURKEY          73  40.9G 1.0100    S.6CY 20.SCY  .......                        SlY      . ..     34Y       . ..      . ..     241     270Y   1.831
YEMEN           73   8.4G   3000    0.5    4.0    ASP  21P  23P   10             151      18       36       6.0        75        2X    (9       0.058Y
YEMEN P.D.8.  76    1.7    280         6.8      .      57   71    8    20        891      48       30        5.0      9'.       211     24      0.10
SUMMARY FOR DE/ELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                   95    92       88   87   86    89        96       78       97          71      79       95      93       8e
RANGE:                             (0.5-  (3.8-  (21- (8-  (2-   (5-    (13-           ((3-     (15-      (t.5-   (8-        f.4-    (9-      1.01-
12.0 ) 28.01   96 ) 72)  50)   99)         133X)   99        69)    25.0 )   99)          95  (  45)   30.1)
OUARTILES:UPPER                     5.9   21.2    49   26   22    83           98       86       42          a      91        48      25     11.0
MIEDIAN:                 4.2   16.0    42   26   18    53          82       63        34         4       S8       24       22      3.4
LOWEQ .                  3.0   12.4    33   21   13    23          56       32        29         2.      41       It       18      1.0
SYMBOLS:..  DArUM UNAVAILABLE                 A.1970 OR BEFORE           M-CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES.
MArNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8.1971                          N-GDP----
?  )LESTIONABLE                  C=1972                      P-INCLUOING FOREIGN AID                  COLUMNS: I AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
INCLUDES PARr-TIME STUDENTS O-iS'3                         0-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR 1810 MISSIONS
COMAeINED WITH PRIMARY          E-197A                     8-MINISTRY OF EOUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 To IA IBRO MISSIONS
..UNDER REVIEW                     F.1975j                    S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
0- 1976                    T-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
H-1977                     U-PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEAReOOK
K1t978                     V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X-INCLUOING OVER-AGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCAtIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT OArA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHO0ULD BE APERDACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ASOVE TABLE HAVE SEEN COLLECTED,LARZGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
RE'AAINDER AIRE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND) WITHIN LIMIlTS. To CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVEPTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING OUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND.
I(t)EDuCATION- AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2)'PRIMARe EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL IEGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
f3)(LfTEQAC, PATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4 (PUBLIC EYPENDITURE IN EOUCATION'ICOLS.3.4 ANO 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDLCATION BY
PURLIr AND OUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
15P"ENROLLMENT RATIOSI(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE ADPROPQIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PQIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SURJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
CCUNTP!ES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC OATA(IIE. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREDUENTLe ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary and Secondary Teacher Demand and Supply, 1977-1985
Student-      Total         Annual Wastage    Expected         Shortfall      Annual Output
Teacher       Teachers      Rate of            Supply of          of                of
Alternative      Enrollment       Ratio        Required      Teachers            Teachers       Teachers         Teachers
Primary
1977                             96,835         36:1          2,672                              2,672          ---               122
1982              a             110,200         35:1          3,149             6%               2,457           692              140
b                "            35:1          3,149            4%                2,729          420                "
c                "            40:1          2,755            6%                2,457          298                if
d                "            40:1          2,755             4%               2,729           26                "
1985              a             122,500         35:1          3,500             6%               2,673          827               340
b                "            35:1          3,500            4%                3,066          434
c                "            40:1          3,063            6%                2,673          390                                  Lo
d                "            40:1          3,063            4%                3,066          ---                "
Secondary
1977                             19,308         20:1             965            6%                 965           ---               96
1982                             24,000         20:1          1,200             6%               1,200                            147
1985                             26,500         20:1          1,325             6%               1,325           ---              155
Source:  Unesco, "Swaziland, Education and Training Sector Review".                                                                                 X 
Date:  June  11, 1979



SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollment Projections, 1977-85
Actual           Projected
1977      1982        1985       1985
(a)        (b)                                                      Assumptions
Primary
Grade 1                  19,808      21,000   23,000       23,000             Assumes that all children aged 6  enrolled in Grade I.  Projection (a) assumes progression
Grade 2                  16,504      18,200   19,900       20,700              rates remain stable.  Projection (b) assumes dropout rates in each grade are halved.  1977
Standard 1              15,304       17,300   18,900       19,300              progression rates are as follows:
Standard 2              13,168       15,500   16,800       17,600                                  Grade                        Standard
Standard 3              12,029       13,900   14.700       15,400                              (1)      (2)        (1)      (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)
Standard 4              10,346       12,600   12,900       13,500
Staindard 5               9,616      11,700   12,500       13,000              Promotion   0.825   0.886        0.824   0.802   0.800   0.805   C.675
Repetition  0.102   0.076         0.099   0.105   C.110   0.117   0.189
Total                   96,835      110,200  118,700    122,500                Dropout      0.073   0.038        0.077   0.093   0.090   0.078   0.136
Junior Secondary
Form 1                    6,479       7,900    8,800                          Assumes 67.5% transition rate from primary to junior secondary school and that progression
Form 2                    5,320       6,700    7,700                           rates in junior secondary schools remain stable.
Form 3                   4,150        5,200    5,800
Total                    15,949      19,800  22,300
Senior Secondary
Form 4                    1,888       2,300      2,300                         Assumes no increase in enrollment after 1979.  This would reduce the transition rate
Fornt  5                  1,471       1,900      1,900                         from junior tO senior secondary school from 53% to 39%,.  Progression rates would remain
stable.
Total                     3,359       4,200      4,200
Souirce: Unesco, "Swaziland, Education and Training Sector Review,"
Date:  May 25, 1979
4.



SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Recurrent Expenditures on Education, 1978 - 1985 (1978 prices)
1978                                                            1985
Alternative Projection
Projection based on        Savings based   Savings based    Total
Category                                           Enrollments       Expenditure          Enrollments        MOE Assumptions (1)        on (2)               on (3)
__ _000)                                  (E'000)                   (EWOOD)           (E'000) (EO00)
Primarv                                                        99,500            3.778               122,500                9,086                   -1,696             -   925            6,465
Secondary                                                      20,550            3,423                26,500                6,815                   -1,112             - 1,140            4.563
Teacher Training                                                   340             489                    840               1,700                   -  406                                1,294
Utiversity                                                         723           1,874                 1,130                2,650                                                         2,650
Adult Education                                                                     186                                        394                  -   63                                  331
Curric,dlom Development                                                             71                                         150                  -   23                                  127
Mlanage.ent and Administration                                                     601                                      1,273                   -  203                                1.070
MOE Total                                                                  10,422                                     22,068                  -3,503             - 2,065            16,500
Swaziland College of Technology                                    400             621                    720               1,118                                                         1,118
Farmer Training and Rural Home Economics                         3,500              139                7,000                   278                                                          278
Total Education and Training                                               11,182                                     23,464                  -3,503             - 2,065            17,896
Total Covernment Recurrent Budget                                          61,367                                     92,273                  92,273               92,273           92,273
Education as a Percentage of                                               18.2                                       25.4                    -3.8                 -2.2             19.4
Total Recurrent Budget
(I)  MOE assumptions:  3% per annum, growth in real salariesprimary, secondary and teacher training schools; pupil teacher rates of 35:1 at primary and 20:1 at secondary;
increase in non-salary expenditures from 1.4% to 10.  in primary schools and from 14% to 20% in secondary schools; other expenditures in MOE to remain
at 1978 percentage of total MOE expenditure.
(2)  Alternative assumption:  No increase in real salaries.
(3)  Alternative assumption:  Pupil teacher rates-of 40.1 at primary and 25.1 at secondary.
Source:  MOE, "A Financial and Statistical Analysis of Swaziland's Education System with Projections to 1986"; Unesco "Swaziland, Education and Training Sector Review",
and Bank staff estimates.
Date:  May 25, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                  A



P                                                             C.
I  C    C  COP  pCPoP        o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nPpn0  CIC~~~~~~~~~~CC~~~~CCCC~~~~~X                       8~ 
LI                               5             C                                                               ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zZ-    1  C
CP           CCC    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
CC                                                              I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5m                IV        ~          ;        1 .
lk-                                                         . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~".  P   .
.           .    .-  C . CC.   .C
CC        555~~~6             Z.PPCSCPCZ,CC



- 35 -                        ANNEX 1
Table T-7
SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
ACCUMULATED           UNDISBURSED
QUARTER -         DISBURSEMENTS             DISBURSEMENTS            BALANCE
1  (FY80)                                                               10.10
2  (FY80)               -                        _                      10.10
3  (FY81)             0.15                      0.15                     9.95
4  (FY81)             0.20                      0.35                     9.75
5  (FY81)             0.40                      0.75                     9.35
6  (FY81)             0.70                      1.45                     8.65
7  (FY82)            0.80                       2.25                     7.85
8  (FY82)             0.90                      3.15                     6.95
9  (FY82)             1.00                      4.15                     5.95
10 (FY82)             1.10                      5.25                     5.85
11 (FY83)             1.10                      6.35                     3.75
12 (FY83)            0.90                       7.25                     2.85
13 (FY83)            0.75                       8.00                     2.10
14 (FY83)            0.70                       8.70                     1.40
15 (FY84)            0.50                       9.20                     0.90
16 (FY84)            0.40                       9.60                     0.50
17 (FY84)            0.40                      10.00                     0.10
18 (FY 84)            0.10                     10.10
1/ From date of effectiveness
Source: Bank staff estimates.



SWAZI LAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
FULL-TIME ENROLLMENT AND POPULATION PYRAMID, 1977
AGE-
GROUP
AGE   GRADE  POPULATION                                                        ENROLLMENT1'
9200                                                            1 300
20           3      10100                                                             A 400
10400                                   -                              o800
18           1      10800                                                                  900
SENIOR SECONDARY
17           5      11200                            I                            VI/b2, ? I I
16           4      11600                                                             100
JUNIOR SECONDAY
15  (Form)  3       12000                          |200
14           2      12400                                                            5300
13           1      12800                                                            6 50
PRIMARY
12 (Standard) 5     13200
11           4      13700
10           3      14100                                                           12000
9           2      14600
8 '! 1  15100                                                                       F E
7  (Grade)  2      15600
6           1      16100                                                           19800/ 3 >
r  X
FD    Age - Group Population
E      Full Time Enrollment
1 / Enrollment by year in higher education is estimated
Source: Official Documents
May 30, 1979                                                                                                                     World Bank - 20479



SWAZI LAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
14                                  PRIMARY                                     lb  4                                       SECONDARY                                                                  HIGHER
Degree Courses; in
Socmlogy. Arts, AOrlcul e
FORMAL SYSrEM
GRADES                                STANDARDS                                              FORMS                         Prmar                                                   Pro-S cie.c                n va
Agriculture                                                  _
{                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Junior S^*cond0ry ;@
Technics raTining(i
NON--FORMAL SYSTEM                                   ___________________
Swazilland International Education Center,
Rural Education Centers. Home Economic, Training,
Farmer Training Centers, Extra Mari SerAcice.
SEBENTA National                                                             Sm,\N,X
In-oitute                                                              \Staziland Institute of Manaernsant n ie r rc\
_A4dministration,ln-service Teacher Trnining Prognram,s
RadioEId`ucation
LABOR  FORCE
1       2             3        4              5        6             1                  8        9        10                1         12                                             13       14            15        is
Schoo! Year           I                      i                                     I                                    I         I                           i            i         i                       i        I             1
Age                   6        7             8        9             10        11           12                 13       14        15                16        17                                             11       19            23        21
EXAMINATIONS                                                            INSTITUTIONS
S.aixiland Primary Cerificate                                         Wilblam Pitcher Teacher Traieing College
<^>                                                                 (-   and Nazarene Teacher Training College
<\Junror Cernificate
Canmbridge Over0eas School Cetificate                                  Swaziland College of Technology
Spported under Third Ed.carion Poriect                                            Universitv of Botswane and Swaziland
Source  Official Documents,                                                                 Gi)  William Pitcher Teacher Training College                                                                                                World Bank - 20417
May 5, 1979



SWAZI LAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
PERMANENT SECRETARY
UNIVERSITY
IADMINISTRATION)                                                               JPROFESSIONAL)
|        ~~~UNDER SECRETARY                                                |DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION
SENIOR INSPECTOR-PERSONNEL           INSPECTOR OF                    SECONDARY                                  NAZARENE TACHER
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION        ACCOUNTING SECTION                       PRIMARY                              WILLIAM PITCHER
CURRICULUM UNIT                        TEACH. TRG. COLLEGF 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS            SENIOR ACCOUNTANT
PERSONAL SECRETARIES          ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANTS
TRANSPORT OFFICER             ACCOUNTS OFFICER                          SENIOR INSPECTOR             CHIEF INSPECTOR
SENIOR CLERICAL OFFICERS     _    _    _ _PRIMARY _ _SECONDARY
JUNIOR CLERICAL OFFICERS
TYPISTS
DRIVERS
MESSENGERS                                                                   CHIEF EDUCATION        EXAMINATION
|___________________ _  | PLANNER        INSPECTOR
[                                      1                                      _1    EDUCATION UNIT     |
|ISTRICT EDUCATION   DISTRICT EDUCATION  DISTRICT EDUCATION   DISTRICT EDUCATION   ECONOMICS AND
OFFICER             OFFICER            OFFICER              OFFICER     J      STATISTICS UNIT                 SENIOR SECONDARY
HHOHI              LUBOMBO             MANZINI            SHISELVVENI         BUILDING                            INSPECTORS
|J|l|  MANAGEMENT UNIT
ASiTN D                                   *E*Og  AGRICULTURE
PASSISTANT D.E.O.                      ASSISTANT D.E.O     ASSISTANT D.E.O.                                         ENGLISH
|   PIGGS PEAK  j       l         |   MANKAYANE            HLATIKULU                                              HOME ECONOMICS
I   l   l    I I                  I                                    l ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~MATHEMATICS  § t 
I   i                                            | ~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~SCIENCE  F 
SOCIAL SCIENCE    |
INSPECTOR OF SCHOOLS                                                                     TECHNICAL                 t
SISWATI                  0*
Source: Ministry of Education
January 31,1979
World Bank - 20412



t39                                               -            f                                 ANNEX 1
SWAZILAND                                                                                           Chart C-4
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Negot s iociDts                        iEffective DSte                                   Project Closing Date_ -
(expe ced October 4879)    l I         lxpected March 1980)                                  (Expected June 30,1984)
1979                 1980                  1981                 1982                  1983                18184
-1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2__3    4
Sector A - Primary Schools
a Survey of sites and existiog buildings, design -ork and
site supervisios                                                                           DOD  000  00D  005  000  588  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS
b. Civil works (tender procedure asd construction program)
Group 1   (4 existing cod 7 ne  schools)                                                              TT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX LLL  LLL  LLL
Group II (4 existing and 3 new schools)                                                                     TT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  LLL  ILL  LLL
Group III (4 existiog asd 6 sew schools)                                                                         TT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXK XXX  XXX  LLL  LLL LLL
Group IV  (teo  new schools)                                                                                          TT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  Xfl LLL  LLL   LLL
c. Furniture  cnd Equipment                                                                                       VV  WVV  ITT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  LLL  LLL
d. Tetbook Program and Distribution                                                                   PPP  PPP  PPP  DPP  PPP  PPP  PPP  DPP  PPP  PPP  PPP  DPP  PPP  PPP  PPP  D
Sector B - Secondary Schools
a. Survey of sites cad existing buildings, desigo vork and
site supervision                                                                       00  000  000  000  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  S
b. Civil works (teoder procedure and cocstruction program)
Group 1 (5 schools)                                                                         T  TTr  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  LLL  LLL  LLL
Group II (5 schools)                                                                             TT  TTX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXL  LLL  LLL  LL
Group III (6 schools)                                                                                TTT |XX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XLL  LLL  LLL  L
c  Furniture and Equipment                                                                             VV  WVV  TTT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  LLL  LLL
Sector C - Extension to Primary and Secondary Curriculum Units and
Establishment of One New In-Service Training Center
and District Edocatioc Office
a  Survey of existing buildings; design work  and site supervision                          00  000  000  000  OSS  SSS  SSS  SSS  SS
b. Civil works (tender procedure and construction program)                                                 TTT  TXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXL  LLL  LLL  IL
c. Furniture and Equipment                                                                                  WVP  TTT  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXL  LLL  LL
Sector D - Empansion of Swaziland Institutes of Management and
Public Administration (SIMPA)
a. Survey of existing buildings, design work  and site supervision                          00  000  00   008  SSS  SSS  SSS  SSS
b. Civil works (tender procedure and construction program)                                              T  TTX  XXX  XX    W   xxx  XLL  LLL  LLL  L
c. Furniture and Equipment                                                                              V  VV   TTT  Tm   XXX1m   XLL  LLL  L
Sector E - PrTinveetment Studfea and Evaluation                                                                              III  III  III  111  III  III  III  III III  III  III  III
Project Administratio!5
a. Technical Aasistance Program  nd Consultants
I Chief Architect/Adviser to Project Manager
(39 man-months)                                                                                          3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3
S Architect (24 man-anths)3 3                                                                   3    3    3    3    3    3
I Procurement Officer (36 man-months)                                                           3    3    3    3    3    3    3   3    3          3    3    3
3 clerks of Works for Site Supervision (total
84 mas-nontho)                                                                                          3    *    9    9    9    9    9    9    *    7
b. Project Implementation Unit                                                                     f  **e  **  ***  an   an   an   an   e*   *e*  an   ***  **   an   an   ** a
Leceod:  000 - Survey of sites and exiating buildings and design work.                                               PPP - Publishing of  textbooks
SSS - Site supervision                                                                                     DDD - Distribution of textbooks
TTT - Tender procedure and award  of contracts                                                             LLL - Detects liability period
XXX - Construction and manufacturing and dalimAry of furniture end equipnt                                     - Propjration awl appiOo l-cf oatF                                 sb
Note e oNumbers indicate staff months of specalistes                                                                    Project  iristration (operatiol coot pb)                     October 24  1979
_/ The post is financed by the first education project   (518-SW) up to December 31, 190.                            III - 1I     nttion of studies



ANNEX 2
- 40 -
SWAZILAND
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower in Swaziland
1.  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, "Skills for the Future,
Education and Manpower Perspectives in Swaziland,"
May, 1978.
2. UNESCO, "Swaziland, Education and Training Sector Review,"
March, 1979.
3. Ministry of Education, "A Financial and Statistical Analysis of
Swaziland's Educational System with Projections to 1986,"
August, 1978.
4. Ministry of Education, "Current Trends in Education Policy,"
September, 1976.
5. World ORT Union, -Report on the Survey of Training Needs and for
the Design of District Vocational Training Centers in Swaziland,"
October 1977.
B. Reports Related to the Project
1. Ministry of Education Planning Unit, "Proposed Third Education Project
to be Financed by the World Bank, Suggested Project Components"
February, 1979.
2. Ministry of Education Planning Unit, "Swaziland Third Education Project.
Primary School Proposals. Working Draft,"
October 10, 1979.
C.      Working Papers and Tables
1.  Educational and Architectural Working Papers, including Indicators
for Project Supervision.



IBRD 14326R1
OCTOBER 1979
This Amop has been prepared by the
SWttAZI LAND                                                 World fXnk's scoff exclusivey for
tIre convnence of the reae- of
the report to hieh it Is attached,
THIRD.EDUCATION   PROJECT                                                                  The denminatros used Wd the
Primory Schools                        THIRDt EDUCATIONhe PROJECTh
World fank end its affiltates, any
(Not shown on map)                                                                                                             vdmtrt on the legal status 5t
-.   .iutr or                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any t-ti tory or any endorsement
Existing JuniorSecondory               /                          To Hetorspruit                                               or acceptane of suchboundaqes.
Schools to be Expanded                To KaOPtsWiden                                               0         10         20        30        40         50
W 51 -v  New JuniorSecondary Schools                                    fTHoro                   KILOMETERS'
T c- - f  Primary and Secondory            g                                n                                 0 /                              20 M0
Curriculum Units (PCU & SCU)  i         ba o                  Ngonin,                                               l \
4,   2    New Teacher lnnovationond  
Distribution Center (TIDC)         to                0yrl1                                      .          To Komntipoort    \,    <,
J,       SwaZiland InstitUte of Manaige-               .
ment and Public Administration (SI 
-    Main Roads - TarLoasha Lueq
Main Roads - Gravel                                       ig  Peak
Minor Roads                                                   1g
*      Important Airports
Aeriol Ropewoys                                             Ko(t10\ri
!HE1 1 11Pineand Gur Forests               /Nsr4            H   HO    H   H   0
*     District Boundories             /           Forbes Reef
-   -    International Boundaries    *       fRA MINE'N-WENI5                                          -,
-t   ~ ~ ~ ~~I             I-MIhNE-
To Johannesburg                                                                                                                                               TO
MBABAN
To AmstOrdsd                             d       V         >     E         t;                                       
I  '\RHQLIESIA~~~~~~~~~~~~IE,u
) O,onceFruCSror, aDLl                                                                              <            , a                                              X
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b mba-ptw                     I                                                               
| \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA  M)&(FINSlEN                                                          Sit VAek'      '       )" )tNA   
Cop          )PtL                     4                                 f O_ THO{
Prorolks s         nOo>,c,..ell   ~ '~~~I5Se5Ay
-'-U                                Mal                 ;        n        Dc                        LP   B  O/           B  0    
coporuos    PtRIcA  9Lg                 O                      0 500  40                                 To TkrTo
kayone                                 49a; --i X Nrontoore                    to                  / to
Otissseli  MILES  -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U ti                                            D OrEnUo



