                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 34447-BF


                                       SIMPLIFIED

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-3900)

                                       ON A CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.9 MILLION

                               (EQUIVALENT US$ 60 MILLION)

                                            TO

                                     BURKINA FASO

                                           FOR A

                         POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (4)




                                     December 28, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
AFC15
Africa Region

                               Currency Equivalents
                               (as November 30, 2005)


                          Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
                                  US$1 = CFAF XXX

                                     Fiscal Year
                               January 1- December 31

                       ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AAP      HIPC Accountability Assessment and Action Plan
AFD      French Development Agency
AfDB     African Development Bank
ARTEL    Telecommunication Regulatory Agency
BCEAO    Central Bank of West African States
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CAS-PR   Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF     Franc of the African Financial Community
CID      Computerized Expenditure Circuit
CIE      Government Integrated Accounting Software
COGES    Health Management Committee
CONAGESE National Council for Environmental Management
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSPS     Community Health Centers
CRA      Regional Agricultural Chambers
DAAF     Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs
DCMP     Central Directorate for Public Procurement
DEP      Directorate for Planning and Studies
DGB      Directorate General for the Budget
DGE      Directorate General for the Environment
DGCOOP   Directorate General for International Cooperation
DGTCP    Directorate General of the Treasury and Public Accounts
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey
DSA      Debt Sustainability Analysis
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EU       European Union
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNP      Gross National Product
GTZ      German Corporation for Technical Cooperation
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IGE      General State Inspectorate
IGF      General Finance Inspectorate


                                      - 2 -

IMF       International Monetary Fund
INSD      National Institute of Statistics and Demography
JSA       Joint Staff Assessment
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
MEBA      Ministry of Basic Education
MEDEV     Ministry of Economy and Development
MFB       Ministry of Finance and Budget
MTEF      Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
ONAPAD    National Poverty and Development Observatory
ONATEL    National Telecommunication Company
OPA       Producer Organization
PAMS      Poverty Analysis Macroeconomic Simulator
PAP       Priority Action Plan
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PDDEB     Ten-year Basic Education Development Plan
PNDS      National Health Care Development Plan
PNDSA     National Program for the Development of Agricultural Services
PNGT      National Program for the Management of Territory
PRGB      Budget Management Reform Plan
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSP-PR   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Report
ROSC      Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SECAC     Sectoral Adjustment Credit
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SIGASPE   Budget Payroll Management System
SONABEL   National Electric Power Company
SONABHY   National Petroleum Product Distribution Company
SP-PPF    Permanent Secretariat for the Supervision of Financial Policies and
          Programs
STC-PDES  Technical Secretariat for the Coordination of Social and Economic
          Development Programs
TOD       Decentralization Laws
TOFE      Government Financial Operation Table
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WAEMU     West African Economic and Monetary Union
WHO       World Health Organization




                                         - 3 -

                                                               Table of Contents

1   Program Data............................................................................................................................................................... 5

2.  Principal Performance Ratings................................................................................................................................... 6

3.  Program Description.................................................................................................................................................... 6

4.  Achievement of Objectives and Outputs.................................................................................................................... 7

5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ........................................................................................ 10

6.  Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................................................................................ 11

7.  Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series ........................................................................ 12

Appendix 1 : Government contribution............................................................................................................................. 13

Appendix 2: Measures taken before PRSC-4 and progress to date ................................................................................ 19

Appendix 3: Burkina Faso: Selected Economic Indicators.............................................................................................. 27

Appendix 4 : PRSC-4, 5 and 6 results indicators.............................................................................................................. 28




                                                                        - 4 -

                            Simplified Implementation Completion Report


                                 Poverty Reduction Support Credit (4)


Project ID: P078994                                        Project Name: Poverty Reduction Support Credit
                                                           (4)

Team Leader: Siaka Coulibaly                               TL Unit: AFTP4

ICR Type: Simplified                                       Report Date: December 28, 2005




1      Program Data
Name:                  Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4             L/C Number:      IDA 3900
Country/Department:    Burkina Faso                                   Region:          Africa

Sector/subsector:     Health (20%); Telecommunications (15%); Gen. Energy
                      Sector (15%); Primary Education (15%).
Theme:                Health system performance (p); State Enterprise/bank
                      restructuring and privatization (s); Education for all and (s);
                      Administrative and civil service for all (s).


KEY DATES
                                                                    Original            Revised/Actual
PCD/PR:        01/12/2004                 Effective:                07/21/2004
Appraisal:     03/30/2004                 MTR:
Approval:      05/11/2004                 Closing:                  06/30/2005


Borrower/Implementing              Burkina Faso Ministry of Finance and Budget
Agency:
Other Partners:


STAFF                    Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:          Gobind T. Nankani                          Callisto Madavo
Country Director:        Diarietou Gaye (acting)                    A. David Craig
Sector Manager:          Robert Blake                               Robert Blake
Team Leader at ICR:      Siaka Coulibaly                            Jan Walliser
ICR Primary Author:      Siaka Coulibaly




                                                 - 5 -

2.       Principal Performance Ratings
(focused on this operation's contribution toward overall program objectives)

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, MS= Moderately Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly
Likely,     L=Likely,     UN=Unlikely,     HUN=Highly       Unlikely,  HU=Highly      Unsatisfactory,   H=High,
SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


 Outcome:                                         S
 Risk to Development Outcome                      M
 Institutional Development Impact:                M
 Bank Performance:                                S
 Borrower Performance:                            MS


                                                  QAG (if available)         ICR
           Quality at Entry:                                                 S
           Operation at Risk at Any Time:                                    N


3.       Program Description
Overall Program

1.       PRSC-4 is the fourth in a series of operations supporting the implementation of the PRSP of Burkina
Faso since 2001.1 PRSC-4 builds on the reform agenda supported by its three predecessors in the areas of public
sector reform, governance and pro-poor sectoral policies, but was also designed as an interim operation at the
juncture between the original PRSP and the revised PRSP. The latter was presented at a donor round table on
March 4-5, 2004 and was subsequently discussed by the Executive Board in May 2005. As with the original
PRSP, the revised PRSP has four strategic pillars: (i) accelerating broad-based growth; (ii) promoting access to
social services; (iii) increasing employment and income-generating activities for the poor; and (iv) promoting
good governance. In addition, the revised PRSP introduces a Priority Action Program, including a results
framework based on selected outcome indicators.

PRSC-4 description

2.       PRSC-4 in the amount of SDR 40.9 million, equivalent to US$60 million, was approved in May 2004.
It is an integral part of the Bank's assistance strategy for 2003-04 presented in the Country Assistance Strategy
progress report (CAS-PR).2 PRSC-4 and its two successors (PRSC-5 and PRSC-6) were designed to support
the implementation of the revised PRSP in 2004-2006. PRSC-4 has three components consistent with the PRSP
pillars. The first component is related to growth, and income creation, and includes reforms in the cotton,
telecommunication, and energy sectors, and labor market reforms. The objectives are to lower factor costs,
increase productivity and favor new investments. The second component of the credit includes policies in the
education, health, and water sectors to build infrastructure, lower the cost of services, improve service quality,
and reinforce monitoring and evaluation. The third component encompasses policy measures to strengthen
budget execution, procurement, budget control, public sector performance, decentralization, and environmental
management.


1 Burkina Faso: Poverty Reduction Support Credit­Report No. P7477-BUR (July 2001); Burkina Faso: Second Poverty
Reduction Support Credit­Report No. 24310-BUR (June 2002); and Burkina Faso: Third Poverty Reduction Support
Operation­Report No. 25782-BUR (June 2003).
2Burkina Faso: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report­Report No. 25458-BUR (March 2003).


                                                      - 6 -

4.       Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Outcome

3.       Overall, satisfactory progress has been made under PRSC-4.           However, given the structural and
institutional nature of the reforms, their impact on key program indicators will only be realized in the long term
once the reforms are completed and stabilized. The ICR for PRSC-6, the last in this series of three operations,
will provide a more thorough review and documentation of results in terms of medium-term indicators and
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) objectives. In addition, the results presented below cannot be
attributed only to the PRSCs. Other policy actions not covered by the PRSCs are also contributing factors.
Nevertheless, one of the innovations introduced with the second series of PRSCs in Burkina Faso is the
adoption of a more detailed results framework for the monitoring and evaluation of PRSCs impact. The
monitoring indicators were derived from the government's PRSP Priority Action Plan. With these reservations
in mind, key results achieved under PRSC-4 included: (i) contribution to macroeconomic stability, (ii) progress
in implementation of structural reforms, (iii) progress in social sector.           A more detailed account of
achievements by component is presented below. Appendices [2] and [4] provides a comprehensive view of
PRSC-4 achievements.

Macroeconomic stability

4.       Macroeconomic stability is a key objective clearly announced in Burkina Faso's PRSP.
Macroeconomic stability not only contributes to growth promotion, but it is also a strong conditionality on
macroeconomic tranches for quite a few of budget support donors. The assessment by the IMF in the
framework of the PRGF is therefore a pre-requisite for the disbursement of a large amount of budget support.
In contributing to the financing of the public deficit and aligning the disbursement with the budget cycle,
PRSC-4 contributed to macroeconomic stability in Burkina in 2004.

5.       The IMF approved a new three-year program supported under the PRGF in June 2003. The fourth
review of the program has been conducted in June 2005 and was considered by the IMF's Executive Board on
September 7, 2005, indicating that economic performance in 2004 was relatively strong, despite the adverse
external shocks that emerged in the second half of the year, notably the sharp decline in world cotton prices and
the increase in world oil prices. Economic growth remained robust at 4.6%, inflation was low (-0.4 %).
External and fiscal deficits were kept at levels consistent with available concessional financing (see Appendix
[3] on selected macroeconomic indicators). However, these results are still fragile, and Burkina remains
vulnerable to exogenous shocks. The sharp decline in Burkina Faso's terms of trade has reduced economic
growth prospects for 2005, and presents the authorities with substantial challenges. The authorities' program
strikes an appropriate balance between the need for fiscal restraint in the face of this shock and the need to push
ahead with priority expenditures in support of the poverty reduction strategy. Revenues have been in line with
the authorities' target and expenditures have remained oriented toward key social services, notably health and
education, as well as growth and productivity-enhancing capital investments. The fifth review of the current
PRGF arrangement took place on November 30th to December 15th 2005.

Growth and income creation

6.       Overall, progress in this area was satisfactory as evidenced by continuous strong economic growth in
2003-2005. Two of the triggers pertaining to cotton and energy sectors that were not fully met at the time of
appraisal were later completed without further consequences. Regarding cotton sector liberalization, the
privatization of the central and eastern zones was successfully completed. The two new ginning companies
(FASO COTON in the Centre and SOCOMA in the East) account for about 20% of cotton seed production.
Since they have started operations in late 2004, the two companies are performing well. SOCOMA has built a
new ginning plant with a capacity of 35,000 tons and is planning a second one in 2006. FASO COTON is


                                                     - 7 -

planning to move its plant from OUAGADOUGOU, the capital city of the country to a new area, KOMBISSIRI
for environmental reasons. FASO COTON has improved productivity thanks to better provision of agricultural
services to cotton growers. In the areas covered by FASO COTON, cotton yield is 1.25 tons compared with
1.00 tons in SOFITEX's zone and less than 1 ton in SOCOMA's zone. To face the competition brought into the
sector by the new companies, SOFITEX is also improving its management. It has planned to build three new
ginning plants in 2006 to cope with increased cotton production. Key reforms were also sought in other sectors,
including telecommunication and energy sectors, as well as labor markets to complement or strengthen the
existing projects. Regarding telecommunications, PRSC-4 has included the privatization of ONATEL, a state-
own company as a trigger in order to speed up the reform which was already on the Competitiveness project
agenda. Unfortunately the privatization process of ONATEL was delayed because of unfavorable terms for the
privatization. No bid was received at the deadline of the biding period and the whole process was undermined.
The Government has now decided to provide an outright majority to the new operator. A successful completion
of the privatization is now expected as part of the next PRSC series. It would help extend the fixed network and
improve the quality of services. Regarding energy sector reform, PRSC-4 tried to accelerate the existing reform
in the energy project agenda by including the liberalization of energy sector as a trigger. The objective of this
reform is to improve access to electricity and to reduce its price for improving the competitiveness of domestic
firms and diversifying the economy. The government showed a strong commitment to move forward in the
process by adopting a law which includes a reference to a regulatory agency for energy sector. But it had to face
donors' disapproval of the modifications made in the law. Donors blamed the government for having not been
consulted during the revision of the law. As a consequence, the government had to start the whole process
again. Regarding labor market reform, a new labor law was adopted in September 2004, but limited progress
has been made in the preparation of implementation decrees because of resistance from unions. The government
has planned a comparative study to find evidences for convincing the unions of the need for some changes.

Access to basic services

7.      Progress in social sectors is satisfactory. A rapid growth in basic education and an improvement in
health indicators trend were observed. But, because of its initial conditions, Burkina Faso still faces challenges
for achieving access of a large number of its population to basic services.

Education

8.      In the education sector, the PRSC-4 pursued reforms initiated under the previous operations through
increasing budget share and deconcentration of budget execution. These measures have increased resources
available for schooling at decentralized levels, which in turn has likely contributed to increases in primary
enrolment, with annual gains of more than 4 percentage points. Two new measures have been introduced under
the new series of PRSC: (i) to improve the quality of education, and (ii) to improve budget allocation between
primary and secondary levels of education.        Specifically, the PRSC-4 sought to improve the quality of
education through: (i) increases in learning times, and (ii) the introduction of sub-grades. A survey on actual
"time on task" which should have started under PRSC-4 has been delayed because of difficulties in mobilizing
resource for the implementation of this operation. On the other hand, the introduction of sub-cycle system is
effective. With regard to the preparation of a MTEF to ensure a better balance in the allocation of resources
between primary and secondary levels, progress has been modest. A draft MTEF has been prepared but has
covered only the primary level. The absence of sector strategy for Ministry of Secondary Education (MESSRS)
and staff instability were the main constraints to the completion of this work. But, since June 2005, the
government started the preparation a MTEF for the whole sector that will be delivered in February 2006.




                                                     - 8 -

Health

9.       In the health sector, overall progress is satisfactory. The major constraints that limit the effectiveness
of Burkina Faso's health system include inadequate financial accessibility and quality of care. PRSCs have been
the Bank's main instruments to resolve these issues. Thus, the measures adopted within the framework of the
PRSCs emphasized three reform measures. First, the PRSC encouraged the adoption of subsidized or free care
for preventive services (including vaccination and prenatal care) and the reduction of the price of essential
generic drugs. Progress at this level has been satisfactory. The verification of the price reduction measures
determined under the previous PRSCs has been carried under PRSC-4 and their application is in effect although
there is continued need for monitoring by Ministry of Health. Although, the impact of these measures on health
center attendance will be felt in the long term, an improvement in health center attendance is already noticeable.
Child vaccination coverage and prenatal care coverage have increased markedly since 2001, and the number of
new contacts at health centers has increased from 0.27 contacts per capita to 0.32. Second, PRSC also
encouraged the strengthening of primary health care centers with staff and increase to the operational budget at
health district level. With regard to staffing, the PRSCs called for carrying out a study on human resources in
the health sector, to address the current shortcomings in the distribution and motivation of health personnel,
followed by the development of a specific Action Plan. A study on health worker motivation was completed in
November 2003 (with support from WHO). The preparation of the action plan initially encountered delays, but
was completed in early 2005.

10.      Efforts have been made in the allocation of sufficient budgetary resources to the regions and
improvements in their management. The ministry of health has increased the amount of delegated budget
credits to regions and health districts by 10% annually, and the PRSCs support the introduction of new cash
advance replenishment mechanism for health districts, which has encountered various administrative
difficulties, but has helped improved liquidity at the district level. The preparation of a sector Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for the health sector, in order to strengthen planning and rationalize sector
resource allocation, was initiated under the PRSC-4. The process has been participative, but slow, and the first
MTEF/health was only completed in mid-2005. The third and last reform measure is about strengthening the
PNDS monitoring mechanism in effect. A monitoring committee has been established and a list of performance
indicators has been adopted. The commission conducted its first review in August 2005.

Water infrastructure

11.      This is a new area introduced under the new series of PRSC to complement the health issues. Access to
safe water is an important objective of the PRSP. The provision of safe water in Burkina Faso is made through
two modalities. For urban and semi urban areas, there are networks for water distribution. For rural areas, the
provision of water is made through drillings. The new series of PRSC has been supporting the provision of safe
water in two ways. First, through the preparation of an action plan for achieving the MDGs in the water sector.
The action plan was adopted but it has to be updated based on the results of the survey on water availability
completed in November 2005. Second, through public-private partnerships promotion. Seven pilot public-
private partnerships in water sector are underway. The lessons learnt from these experiences would allow the
extension of the approach to other secondary water centers.

Good governance

Public Finance:

12.      The government adopted the PRGB (plan de renforcement de la gestion budgétaire) action plan in 2002
to improve public finance management. The PRGB action plan covers eight objectives of which the most
important include: (i) enhance the capacity of institutions in charge of budget management; (ii) improve the
regulatory framework of budget management; (iii) improve the quality and transparence of the budget;


                                                      - 9 -

(iv) enhance budget monitoring and control; (v) deepen budget execution deconcentration; (vi) improve the
sustainability of budget management softwares. The Bank has been supporting PRGB action plan
implementation through the PRSCs. The first series of PRSCs helped to empower the Ministry of Finance for
conducting PERs and preparing MTEFs. Now the PER process in Burkina is driven by the government and the
preparation of a global MTEF is well established as well. An important outcome of the MTEF is the fact that
the MTEF helped to better align the allocations of the budget with the PRSP priorities. Regarding the specific
measures supported by PRSC-4, progress has been satisfactory. PRSC-4 focused on budget execution including
procurement issues. Notable progress has been achieved in budget execution, specifically in the deconcentration
of budget execution, as well as in procurement reforms. Now the budget can be spent in 8 regions without
resorting to the center. A new procurement code and several texts for its implementation were adopted and
enforced. A CPAR assessment was conducted in 2005 to update the reforms. An action plan is being adopted.

13.      Decentralization is a new area of interest included in the new series of PRSC. Progress was slow in this
area because of intense inter-ministerial discussions as regards the financial and human resource implications of
the decentralization. New elections are scheduled for February 2006 and all the texts for operationalizing the
decentralization have been drafted and a workshop held on December 6-7, 2005 adopted the final versions to be
approved. The new series of PRSCs will place emphasis on decentralization.

Environment

14.      The implementation of the capacity building action plan launched at the beginning of the PRSC process
continued with PRSC-4. Guidelines for Environmental Assessment were made available to 5 line ministries
where environment cells were already established. Environmental evaluation was conducted for 4 IDA projects.

5.       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Design issues

15.       PRSC-4 was anticipated in PRSC-3 with the understanding that the government would build a new
PRSP framework; PRSC-4 then launched a new series of three operations for 2004-06. However, the challenge
to the Bank team was that the operationalization of the PRSP remained an area of weakness given the split of
MEDEV and MFB. The PRSP action plan was the basis for PRSC 4-6 but additional work by government was
needed to make it operational and ultimately the Bank and the SP-PPF with some sector consultations had to
put it into a PRSC frame to proceed in a consistent logical frame. In addition donor harmonization finally took
off but the subsequent government's decision to manage the process ­ although positive - ultimately delayed the
development of a joint performance assessment framework until mid-2005. These developments imply that the
programmatic series and the results framework for it had to be adjusted somewhat in PRSC-5 to provide clearer
indicators and baseline for indicators that will allow to better measure progress made under the
PRSP/PRSC/CGAB.

Implementation issues:

16.      There are three types of implementation issues: coordination issues, weak capacities of institutions and
vested interests action. With respect to coordination issues, the Permanent secretary for policies and financial
programs (SP-PPF) at the Ministry of Finance- generally provided excellent support for the implementation of
PRSC agreed measures. Prior to supervision missions, the policy matrix was sent to line ministries to call for
meetings with the PRSC team. The announcement of PRSC missions and invitations sent to implementation
agencies helped to better prepare the evaluation of progress. Line ministries gathered relevant information for
the mission to evidence progress, which make them feel more comfortable in the discussion with the PRSC
team. But the coordination unit was not quite successful to preparing for the PRSC missions for three reasons.
First, it was often overwhelmed by requests from several donors at the same time, which did not leave it with


                                                     - 10 -

enough room to focus on PRSC measures. Hopefully, the adoption of a unified framework for budget support ­
CGAB- in 2005 will cut down transaction costs for SP-PPF. Second, the split of ex-Ministry of Economy and
Finance into two ministries, a Ministry of Finance and Budget on the one hand and a Ministry of Economy and
Development on the other hand, resulted in coordination issues and lesser PRSP/PRSC experience with the
newly established SP-PPF. This difficulty is now solved. Third, with respect to institutions capacities, several
important reforms were delayed because of lack or weak capacity. For instance, weak capacity of Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Public Administration and Ministry of Decentralization in the design of resource
(personnel and infrastructures) transfer mechanisms to local authorities delayed the decentralization agenda.
Another example is the weak capacity of the Ministry of Energy and the Privatization Commission to conduct
the process of energy sector liberalization even if Bank procedures (non objection) contributed later on to the
delay. A third example is the weak capacity in most of line ministries regarding planning and budgeting which
often resulted in lack of resources for the implementation of key reforms. Fortunately, SP-PPF came up with a
provisional solution to solve this issue with a fungible budget line for all the ministries in such a position. The
last example is related to the mobility of staff in line ministries. For instance, after being trained on MTEF, the
director of financial administration and the director for studies and planning in the Ministry of Secondary
Education were moved away. The new staffs appointed were not very familiar with MTEF.

17.     Finally, reforms in telecommunication and energy sectors were delayed because of vested interests.
Some government officials were not very keen for the privatization the telecom and electricity companies.
Trade unions resistance has also impeded progress in labor code reforms as well.


6.      Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance

18.     Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. First of all, despite the context of the revision of the PRSP
the Bank managed to design the new series of PRSC which broadened the coverage of priority areas by
including growth and employment generation and decentralization in the reform agenda. Second, the Bank
succeeded to harmonize PRSC disbursements with the budget cycle which helped the government to better plan
and manage expenditures commitments. Third, the Bank also organized supervision missions in time to help the
implementation agencies meet the deadline for most of the triggers. Nevertheless, there are still shortcomings in
the functioning of Bank teams for many reasons. First, because of their responsibilities for many other tasks,
sector TTLs were not often available in due time to fully participate in PRSC preparation missions. Second, the
implications of the new approach (budget support versus investment operation) should have brought in some
improvements in the way Bank's teams should work with the client. Bank sector teams should have assisted the
government through a thorough policy dialogue on sector issues and strategies and program budgets
preparation. They should have made sure that the priority programs in the sector are well funded and well
managed. But, most of them remain focused on project implementation and are either not very familiar with
budget issues or sufficiently engaged in dialogue during budget preparation. Burkina PRSC team envisioned to
organize a workshop for TTLs on public finance issues.

Government Performance

19.     Although Burkina Faso has established a strong track record in implementing reforms, the
government's performance for this specific operation is moderately satisfactory. Positive developments can be
reported in the implementation of the PRSCs. First, the role of PRSCs is increasingly understood by central and
sectoral ministries. Second, the Ministry of Finance has established a good monitoring system of PRSC
measures, and effectively conducted the negotiations of the credit. Third, several line ministries are now more
familiar with the PRCSs and made relevant proposals for measures to be taken into account in the reform
program for next operations. They also made efforts to meet the deadlines for the triggers. Nevertheless, there is



                                                      - 11 -

room for improving government performance in several areas. First, line ministries still need to understand that
the resources provided through the PRSC are fungible and not earmarked. Consequently, they need to better
plan activities and get them funded through the national budget. Second, PRSC-4 implementation encountered
delays or setbacks in critical reforms. The failure to privatize the Telecommunication Company, ONATEL and
delays in the liberalization of the energy sector are attributable to the government. Regarding ONATEL, had the
government followed the advice provided by the Privatization Adviser (Banque d'affaires) and adopted an
attractive strategy, the privatization of ONATEL would have been completed by now. Regarding the energy
sector reform, a more consultative approach with key stakeholders, including donors could have prevented the
government from revising repeatedly the law on energy sector reform. Other important areas where reforms
were delayed included decentralization, the preparation of an MTEF for the education sector, the
implementation of action plan for health personnel motivation.

7.      Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

20       In assessing overall progress in the implementation of reforms sought under PRSCs, one should take
into account the track-record established by a country. While three PRSC-4 triggers were not fully met at
appraisal, the team proposed to approve the credit on the basis of the Government's reform record and initial
steps that were taken at that time. The decision proved correct as all measures were subsequently fully
implemented, and the delays did not have adverse consequences.


21.     One continuous lesson from PRSCs' implementation in Burkina is the need for strengthening the
PRSC-related sectoral dialogue by involving more actively line ministries as well as Bank sector teams.
Currently, the latter are often overwhelmed by the preparation and supervision of several projects, and the
transition from project to programmatic support has proved difficult. But if the PRSCs are to be successful
operations, such transition should be made. In that respect, it is worth thinking of how to change the incentives
structure to encourage the transition. A solution is to split and allocate upfront the PRSC administrative budget
to sector teams which will be then hold accountable for the outcome in their respective sectors. This approach
has been adopted with the preparation of PRSC-6.


22.     An important issue is how Bank's teams could get better involved in budget preparation whether
formally or informally. The government has already expressed its concerns of the risk of undermining its
ownership on budget preparation if it has to adopt a formal consultation with donors on the budget. The draft
budget is always sent to all the donors at the same time the budget is submitted to the Parliament. But, this time
is too late for Bank's teams to have dialogue on sector budget. Bank's teams should get involved in budget
preparation when the line ministries are preparing their draft budget. In that respect, the initiative is left so far
with each sector team to have consultation with his counterparts in the government on sector program budget.
But so far, Bank's teams did not fully engaged in budget preparation. A country team retreat may help to come
up with practical solutions in that area.


23.     An emerging lesson is the need to pay more attention to the effectiveness of parallel support projects.
The Bank has sought to prepare capacity building projects and other development projects to accompany the
implementation of reforms sought under the PRSCs. However, issues with these projects (ranging from poor
coordination and procurement delays) have sometimes delayed the implementation of PRSC measures.
Bringing the necessary changes will probably require revisions in assessing Bank's performance under the
PRSC, by including performance under associated projects as well.




                                                     - 12 -

                          Appendix 1 : Government contribution



Ministère des Finances                                                 Burkina Faso
  Et du Budget                                                            ---------
    ---------                                                     Unité ­ Progrès ­ Justice
   Cabinet




Rapport d'achèvement du quatrième Crédit d'Appui à la Stratégie de Réduction de la Pauvreté
                                de la Banque Mondiale




                                                                          Novembre 2005



                                       - 13 -

Introduction

Le CASRP 4 est la première opération d'une nouvelle série de trois opérations pour appuyer, à travers des aides
budgétaires, la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté adoptée par le gouvernement du
Burkina Faso en 2000 et révisée en 2004. Il soutient les objectifs du gouvernement de maintenir un
environnement macro-économique sain et d'accélérer la croissance économique. En particulier, le CASRP 4 a
visé à renforcer la gestion macroéconomique à court terme et la création d'un environnement économique et
institutionnel favorable à la réduction de la pauvreté.

Le CASRP a reposé de ce fait sur l'exécution d'un ensemble de mesures de politiques en vue d'atteindre les
objectifs de réduction de la pauvreté. Les mesures de réformes retenues dans le programme sont tirées du
programme d'action prioritaire du Gouvernement pour l'opérationnalisation du CSLP. Celles-ci ont été
convenues de manière consensuelle entre la Banque Mondiale et la partie nationale et, dans le cadre du suivi
régulier du programme, le CASRP 4 a fait l'objet de revues conjointes par les deux parties au cours de la
période 2003-2004.

Le CASRP 4 a été évalué au cours du premier trimestre 2004 et négocié au début du second trimestre, ce qui a
permis d'organiser le processus de son approbation par les instances de la banque, sa mise en oeuvre et la
mobilisation des ressources en phase avec le cycle budgétaire. Ce quatrième financement, d'un montant de
soixante millions (60.000.000) de dollars EU a été consenti essentiellement sous forme de dons.

Ce rapport d'achèvement du CASRP 4 va s'articuler autour de trois principaux points. Il s'agira dans un
premier temps de donner notre appréciation sur ce quatrième crédit, ensuite de faire une analyse de l'exécution
des mesures du CASRP 4 et enfin de faire des propositions pour une meilleure gestion des CASRP futurs.

I - Appréciation par la partie nationale du quatrième CASRP

L'expérience des trois premiers CASRP a permis une nette amélioration de la mise en oeuvre du quatrième
CASRP 4. Le CASRP, cadre excellent pour le dialogue entre la Banque et le gouvernement, permet aussi
d'assurer un programme macro économique en cohérence avec les politiques sectorielles. Il comporte un niveau
de flexibilité satisfaisant dans la mesure où il permet : (i) sur la base d'actions « déclencheurs » un soutien
continu sur le long terme ; (ii) au gouvernement de faire avancer les réformes à des rythmes variables selon les
secteurs ; (iii) son évaluation se fait selon un cadre et un calendrier convenus à l'avance, son décaissement est
rapide, en tranche unique et aligne avec le cycle budgétaire; (iv) le décaissement modulable du crédit par la
Banque en cas de non réalisation à bonne date de certaines mesures « déclencheurs ».

Le CASRP 4 a appuyé la mise en oeuvre du CSLP, à travers les réformes visant une réduction continue de la
pauvreté, confortant ainsi le gouvernement dans une meilleure appropriation des politiques et programmes. La
participation effective des sectoriels leur permet de s'impliquer davantage dans le processus et leur assure une
meilleure compréhension des enjeux du CASRP.

Le CASRP 4 a néanmoins été confronté à des difficultés au cours de sa mise en oeuvre. La difficulté principale
réside dans le fait que l'instrument reste insuffisamment compris par certains acteurs impliqués dans sa mise en
oeuvre au niveau des ministères sectoriels, qui le perçoivent comme un projet ce qui traduit la non intégration
des coûts de mise en oeuvre des mesures par les sectoriels au niveau de leur budget. Pour les ministères, le
gouvernement doit mettre à leur disposition des ressources additionnelles au moment de l'exécution des
mesures. La faiblesse des capacités (humaines et matérielles) et la non maîtrise des budgets programmes au
niveau des ministères sectoriels constituent également des contraintes à la bonne mise en oeuvre du CASRP.

La faiblesse de l'appareil statistique national est restée un problème majeur, qui rend difficile l'accès aux
statistiques et indicateurs requis pour l'appréciation des résultats. L'on note cependant une amélioration
progressive de la production d'informations statistiques aussi bien en provenance de l'Institut National des
Statistiques et de la Démographie (INSD) que des Directions des Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) et des
Directions des Affaires Financières (DAF), mais des efforts restent toujours à faire dans ce domaine.



                                                     - 14 -

Le CASRP 4, approuvé en mai 2004 pour 60 millions de dollars EU, a permis d'enregistrer des avancées
significatives dans de nombreux domaines. Les principales réalisations sont retracées dans la partie suivante.

II - Réalisations du quatrième crédit d'appui à la réduction de la pauvreté

Les crédits d'appui à la stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté étant des appuis budgétaires non ciblés, ils sont
pris en compte dans le processus d'allocations budgétaires à travers les enveloppes sectorielles du CDMT. Ils
contribuent donc à toutes les réalisations assurées par le budget.

Les opérations du quatrième CASRP ont appuyé en grande partie une gestion budgétaire saine, une
amélioration de la fourniture de services de base, notamment en matière d'éducation et de santé. Par ailleurs,
elles ont contribué à stimuler les sources de croissance à travers des réformes structurelles pour la promotion du
secteur privé et l'accroissement des investissements dans le secteur du développement rural.

En vue d'approfondir les liens entre le CSLP et la matrice du CASRP, les mesures du CASRP 4, contrairement
à celles des trois précédents, ont été regroupées sous trois grandes composantes, à savoir : (i) la croissance et la
création d'emploi pour les axes 1 et 3 du CSLP ; (ii) le développement des ressources humaines pour l'axe 2 du
CSLP et (iii) la bonne gouvernance pour l'axe 4 du CSLP.

L'exécution du CASRP 4 a été satisfaisante dans l'ensemble et les progrès réalisés ont justifié la mise en oeuvre
de la suite de la série (CASRPs 5 et 6). La plupart des mesures programmées ont été mises en oeuvre, et cela a
permis d'obtenir des résultats significatifs dans tous les domaines du CSLP.

Axe 1 : accélérer la croissance et la fonder sur l'équité

La contribution du CASRP 4 à la réalisation des objectifs visés par cet axe du CSLP a consisté en la mise oeuvre
de mesures visant le renforcement du cadre macroéconomique en soutien au programme convenu avec le FMI
d'une part, et d'autre part à l'amélioration du processus de formulation et d'exécution du budget avec
notamment l'utilisation des Cades de Dépenses à Moyen Terme (CDMT) et des Revues des Dépenses Publiques
(RDP) pour une plus grande cohérence entre le budget et les priorités du CSLP.

Le CASRP 4 a soutenu l'Etat dans la poursuite de l'exécution de son programme de désengagement des
secteurs de production, traduisant ainsi sa volonté à faire du secteur privé le moteur de la croissance
économique. Ainsi, la privatisation du portefeuille résiduel de l'Etat a été poursuivie et de nouvelles actions
visant la promotion du secteur privé ont été développées, contribuant ainsi à l'amélioration du cadre d'exercice
des affaires. La concertation instaurée avec les partenaires du secteur privé a été renforcée pour rechercher de
manière concertée les voies et moyens d'assouplir les formalités de création d'entreprises et d'améliorer
l'environnement des affaires au Burkina Faso.

Concernant particulièrement le secteur des télécommunications, après les phases de mise en place de l'organe
de régulation et de l'ouverture du segment de la téléphonie mobile à deux opérateurs privés, le processus de
privatisation de l'opérateur historique en occurrence l'ONATEL a été entamé. De même, la reforme du secteur
de l'énergie a connu des avancées avec l'adoption par le gouvernement des options de structuration des sous
secteurs de l'électricité et des hydrocarbures, ouvrant la voie pour le démarrage des travaux de renforcement des
capacités de production thermique de la SONABEL (acquisition d'une centrale de 14 MGW) et du projet de
l'interconnexion Bobo Dioulasso/ Ouagadougou. La libéralisation du secteur coton a également franchi une
étape majeure avec l'installation de deux nouvelles sociétés cotonnières dans les zones du Centre et de l'Est.

Axe 2 : promouvoir l'accès des pauvres aux services sociaux de base

Les réformes entreprises dans le cadre du CASRP 4 ont contribué significativement au développement des
ressources humaines, élément indispensable pour soutenir un développement économique durable. Ces réformes
se sont surtout focalisées sur l'éducation et la santé dont les politiques sont bâties autour du Plan Décennal de
Développement de l'Education de Base (PDDEB) et du Plan National de Développement Sanitaire (PNDS), qui
sont deux éléments clés du CSLP.


                                                     - 15 -

Dans le domaine de l'éducation de base, le gouvernement a continué à allouer des ressources substantielles au
secteur en vue d'accroître l'offre d'infrastructures et de recruter davantage d'enseignants pour rendre
fonctionnelles les nouvelles salles de classes. Ces efforts ont rehaussé le niveau des différents indicateurs de
l'éducation de base. Ainsi, le taux d'admission en première année a connu un bond de 13,7 points s'établissant à
66,6% en 2003. Le taux brut de scolarisation s'est inscrit à 52,3% en 2004-2005 contre 45,1% en 2002-2003. Le
CASRP 4 a permis également de mettre en place les premiers éléments pour l'élaboration d'un CDMT sectoriel
avec le MEBA et le MESSRS. De même, il a favorisé le lancement des réflexions sur l'augmentation du
nombre d'heures d'enseignement.

Concernant particulièrement l'orientation de la lettre de politique éducative du gouvernement, le CASRP 4 a
soutenu: (i) la conduite de campagne de sensibilisation et de mobilisation sociale et la prise de mesures
incitatives telles que l'obligation d'acceptation en première année de tout enfant remplissant les conditions
d'accès, (ii) la distribution gratuite des manuels et fournitures dans les 20 provinces prioritaires, (iii) la dispense
de frais de scolarité en première année pour les filles et la promotion des cantines assistées ou endogènes et, (iv)
l'opérationnalisation du Fonds National d'appui à l'Alphabétisation et à l'Education Non Formelle
(FONAENF).

Dans le domaine de la santé de base, le mauvais état sanitaire et nutritionnel accentue le phénomène de la
pauvreté au Burkina Faso dont il constitue à la fois une cause et une conséquence. Il en résulte une diminution
de la productivité et des revenus des ménages. Parmi les autres facteurs associés à la pauvreté et contribuant à
un mauvais état de santé des populations figurent l'analphabétisme des femmes et l'accès réduit à l'eau potable
et à l'assainissement. Le souci d'améliorer l'état sanitaire et le bien-être des populations a conduit le
gouvernement à organiser en juin 2003 une table ronde des bailleurs de fonds pour réunir les ressources
nécessaires au financement du Plan National de Développement Sanitaire, élaboré sur une base décennale
(PNDS).

Par ailleurs, le CASRP 4 a soutenu la poursuite des actions entreprises au cours de l'exécution du premier cycle
de CASRP, notamment : (i) la normalisation des structures sanitaires et la dotation de celles-ci en personnel
minimum pour assurer leur fonctionnalité, (ii) la réduction des marges bénéficiaires du centre national
d'approvisionnement en médicaments génériques, ce qui a permis de réduire les prix et d'accroître l'accès à ces
médicaments (iii) la gratuité des soins prénataux et les services de vaccination (iv) la motivation pour maintenir
le personnel dans les zones rurales sous - desservies, et le transfert des responsabilités de l'attribution et de la
gestion du personnel aux niveaux régional et provincial. Toutes ces opérations ont aussi contribué à encourager
la prévention continue à travers les programmes de vaccination et la distribution concomitante de vitamine A
aux enfants de 0 à 5 ans.

Pour améliorer l'exécution des crédits accordés aux districts sanitaires dans le cadre de la déconcentration
budgétaire, un suivi plus régulier des régies d'avance a été entamé après l'accroissement de 10% des moyens
alloués aux structures déconcentrées du secteur. Cette augmentation des crédits délégués a contribué à assurer
un meilleur fonctionnement des districts sanitaires. Le gouvernement a par ailleurs renforcé les Comités de
Gestion des Centres de Santé (COGES) par la formation de leur personnel en micro planification, et des
dispositions ont été prises par le gouvernement pour l'élaboration d'un CDMT sectoriel en vue de favoriser le
pilotage du PNDS.

Axe 3 : accroître les opportunités d'emploi et d'activités génératrices de revenus pour les pauvres

Le CASRP 4 a intégré des mesures visant à soutenir une véritable stratégie de développement rural. Les actions
prioritaires ont concerné le développement de l'économie de marché en milieu rural, l'accroissement continu
des revenus ruraux à travers la diversification des filières et la poursuite de la réforme de la filière coton par son
ouverture à de nouveaux investisseurs. Le gouvernement a également intensifié les actions de soutien aux
initiatives visant la diversification des sources de revenus du monde paysan et le renforcement de la sécurité
alimentaire et nutritionnelle grâce à la petite irrigation villageoise, développées pour des cultures de contre
saison.



                                                      - 16 -

Dans le domaine des productions agro-pastorales, le CASRP 4 a soutenu l'élaboration des plans d'actions
oléagineux (septembre 2003), porcine (octobre 203) et fruits et légumes (étude démarrée en novembre 2003 et
achevée en septembre 2004).

Par ailleurs des actions ont été aussi développées dans le domaine de l'hydraulique rurale et de
l'approvisionnement en eau potable. Après l'adoption de la loi d'orientation relative à la gestion de l'eau, le
gouvernement a préparé et adopté dans le cadre du programme de plan d'action pour l'atteinte des objectifs du
millénaire dans les domaines de l'eau et de l'assainissement, aussi bien en milieu rural que urbain sur la période
2003-2005. De même dans le domaine du désenclavement des zones rurales, l'effort de construction de pistes
rurales a été poursuivi en vue de créer des pôles de développement capables de stimuler une diversification des
opportunités d'activités économiques.

Axe 4 : promouvoir la bonne gouvernance

Le CASRP 4 a soutenu de manière continue les efforts du gouvernement dans le domaine de la gouvernance en
vue de maintenir un cadre macro-économique stable et d'aligner son cadre de dépenses à moyen terme (CDMT)
avec les priorités de CSLP. Ces objectifs ont été poursuivis à travers les mesures de réformes suivantes :

    (i)- l'utilisation de règles de formulation, d'exécution et de contrôle de la gestion budgétaire favorisant les
    piliers du CSLP, notamment la santé, l'éducation et le développement rural sur la base de solides revues des
    dépenses publiques ;
    (ii)- le respect des procédures de base en matière de passation de marché et de gestion financière. A cet
    effet, en vue de la renforcer le dispositif réglementaire des marchés publics, un projet de décret a été élaboré
    pour réglementer les concessions et l'affermage ;
    (iii)- la réforme de la fonction publique et de la décentralisation a continué à être appuyé à travers la mise
  en oeuvre du processus de la décentralisation et de la déconcentration des services publics, afin d'améliorer
  l'efficacité des prestations de services sociaux tout en assurant leur qualité. Ainsi, la déconcentration de
  l'ordonnancement a été engagée pour accroître l'efficacité du mécanisme de délégation des crédits aux
  régions et aux provinces. Démarré à Bobo­Dioulasso en avril 2003, la déconcentration de l'ordonnancement
  des dépenses budgétaires a été étendue en 2004 à quatre autres chefs lieux de régions, en l'occurrence
  Ouahigouya, Kaya, Koudougou et Tenkodogo.

L'élaboration des Cadres de Dépenses à Moyen Terme (CDMT) 2004-2006 a permis de disposer d'enveloppes
financières sectorielles traduisant les priorités sectorielles et leur adéquation avec la stratégie nationale de
réduction de la pauvreté. Le budget étant l'instrument de mise en oeuvre du CSLP, celui 2004 a été élaboré
selon la nomenclature UEMOA de 2003.

Le CASRP-4 a soutenu la mise en oeuvre du processus de la décentralisation et de la déconcentration du service
public, comme le moyen d'améliorer l'efficacité et la qualité des prestations de services sociaux de base. Il
comporte aussi la délégation de crédits budgétaires aux régions et aux provinces, l'émission d'ordre de
paiement aux niveaux régional et provincial.

Le volet environnemental introduit au cours du CASRP 3 a été poursuivi dans CASRP 4, permettant au
gouvernement d'accroître sa capacité d'étudier l'impact environnemental et la protection de l'environnement.

III - Propositions pour les prochains CASRP

Les prochains CASRP devront continuer de prendre en compte les insuffisances relevées au cours de
l'exécution des CASRP antérieurs et, dans le processus, le gouvernement entend assurer son leadership dans la
définition et la coordination des actions à entreprendre, conformément à l'orientation affichée clairement dans
le CSLP.

Par ailleurs, dans le domaine du renforcement de la programmation budgétaire, le gouvernement entend
promouvoir la mise en place d'instruments appropriés tels que le CDMT et le budget - programme dans les



                                                     - 17 -

ministères sectoriels, avec l'appui de la banque. Un meilleur suivi - évaluation des indicateurs du CASRP et par
conséquent, du CSLP, nécessite non seulement le renforcement des services nationaux de statistique (INSD,
services des ministères sectoriels) en ressources humaines, mais aussi le développement des capacités
d'analyse.

Par ailleurs, il importe que les revues et les évaluations du CASRP s'inscrivent dans le nouveau cadre
d'organisation des appuis budgétaires en soutien à la mise en oeuvre du CSLP adopté le 11 janvier 2005. En vue
de permettre une plus grande appropriation des actions par la partie nationale, une meilleure implication de la
mission résidente est nécessaire, mais avec une coordination des services en charge du suivi des appuis
budgétaires au sein du ministère des finances et du budget. L'efficacité du CASRP repose sur l'engagement de
la banque et du gouvernement à travailler de concert pour une meilleure compréhension de l'instrument.




                                                   - 18 -

                                                Appendix 2: Measures taken before PRSC-4 and progress to date
                                                                                   (Triggers in Boldface)

      Policy Area         Original Measures PRSC-4                        Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                          Progress as of end October, 2005
 Macroeconomic       Maintain a stable macroeconomic          Trigger fulfilled as specified.                                  The IMF approved a new three-year program supported under the PRGF in
 Framework           framework during the program                                                                              June 2003. The fourth review of the program has been conducted in June
                     period.                                                                                                   2005 and was considered by the IMF's Executive Board on September 7,
                                                                                                                               2005, indicating that economic performance in 2004 was relatively strong,
                                                                                                                               despite the adverse external shocks that emerged in the second half of the
                                                                                                                               year, notably the sharp decline in world cotton prices and the increase in
                                                                                                                               world oil prices. Economic growth remained robust at 4.6%, inflation was
                                                                                                                               low (-0.4%), and all fiscal targets were met.

                                                                                                                               The sharp decline in Burkina Faso's terms of trade has reduced economic
                                                                                                                               growth prospects for 2005, and presents the authorities with substantial
                                                                                                                               challenges. The authorities' program strikes an appropriate balance between
                                                                                                                               the need for fiscal restraint in the face of this shock and the need to push
                                                                                                                               ahead with priority expenditures in support of the poverty reduction strategy.
                                                                                                                               Revenues have been in line with the authorities' target and expenditures have
                                                                                                                               remained oriented toward key social services, notably health and education,
                                                                                                                               as well as growth and productivity-enhancing capital investments. The fifth,
                                                                                                                               review of the current PRGF arrangement is scheduled for December 2005.

                                                                     FIRST COMPONENT : GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION

 A.    Rural sector  Continue with the implementation         Trigger mostly fulfilled. The technical bids for the two zones   The privatization of the two zones has been successful. Two new companies
                     of the action plan for opening the       were evaluated in August 2003. The council of ministers          FASO COTON and SOCOMA took over the control of the two zones in
Open the cotton      cotton sector to private investors as    validated the process in January 2004, retaining two bidders for September 2004. SOCOMA's share is 20% of total cotton production and
sector for private   signified by bringing the assets in      the central zone and three bidders for the eastern zone. The     FASO COTTON's is 10%. Despite a gloomy cotton world market, the two
investors            two zones to the point of sale.          government issued the invitation for financial bids in February  new companies have been doing well so far. SOCOMA has already built a
                                                              2004 and financial bids were received and opened on April 6,     new ginning unit to face an expected rise in cotton production. FASO
                                                              2004. While the assets of the two zones were not brought to the  COTTON is planning to move its plant to a new location outside the capital
                                                              point of sale prior to PRSC-4 negotiations, the government was   city of Ouagadougou to address environmental concerns and is also planning
                     Preparation of the terms of reference    expected to invite winning bidders for negotiation in May 2004   the increase its ginning capacity. Overall, Burkina is now the largest cotton
                     and begin the elaboration of a study     and to transfer the assets on time for the new cotton campaign.  producer in West and Central Africa.
                     on options for the evolution of the      Delays were encountered because one bidder unsuccessfully his
                     cotton sector after the transition       disqualification on technical ground                             A Bank-financed consultant carried out a mission in January 2005 to advance
                     period.                                                                                                   the preparation of the new regulatory framework.
                                                              The study on options for future evolution of the cotton sector
                                                              was under preparation at the time of the negotiations.

Diversification of   Dissemination of the results of the      Results of finalized studies were disseminated. Following the    All the action plans (cereals, rice, beans, fruit and vegetable) are now
rural incomes        different   studies   on    agricultural adoption of action plans for the promotion of several products,  completed. However, implementation is slow because of lack of funding.
                     diversification  and    definition   of  the government adopted the global rural development strategy
                     diversification policies resulting from  in December 2003.
                     these studies under the forthcoming
                     global development strategy.




                                                                                           - 19 -

     Policy Area           Original Measures PRSC-4                     Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                            Progress as of end October, 2005

 B.   Telecommunic   PREPARE SECTOR FOR PRIVATIZATION        Trigger fulfilled as specified. The privatization strategy was    The privatization of ONATEL was not completed in 2004 because private
 ation sector                                                adopted in early 2003, and the pre-qualification process was      investors did not find attractive the three-stages strategy proposed by the
                     AND LAUNCH BIDS FOR ONATEL AS           launched in May 2003. Pre-qualified candidates were notified      Government:
 Privatization of    SIGNIFIED BY:                           in July 2003. The bidding document were prepared in Fall 2003     ·     Selling of 34% of the share to the new investor.
 ONATEL                                                      and sent to pre-qualified bidders in December 2003.               ·     After 3 year selling of an additional 10%

                     (I) ADOPTION OF THE PRIVATIZATION                                                                         ·     After 8 years, selling of a further 7% to provide a majority share to the
                                                                                                                                     private investor.
                     STRATEGY BY THE COUNCIL OF                                                                                None of the pre-qualified bidders submitted a financial offer. The government
                     MINISTERS.                                                                                                adopted a new strategy in March 2005, providing an outright majority of 51
                                                                                                                               percent to the private investor. However progress has been limited so far.

                    (II) LAUNCH THE PRE-QUALIFICATION
                     PROCESS.

                     (iii) Launch the bidding process on the
                     basis of draft bidding documents.

                     (iv) Finalize evaluation of technical
                     bids.


 C.   Energy sector  Prepare sector for private sector       Trigger partially fulfilled. On the basis of studies on the       A new regulatory framework was approved by Parliament in May 2005.
                     participation as signified by:          restructuring of the electricity sector, the Council of Ministers However, implementation decreed should further clarify the role of the
Private sector                                               adopted the reform strategy on March 24, 2004. The petroleum      different institutions in the energy sector.
involvement in       (i) Adoption by the council of          sector strategy was reviewed by the Council of Ministers on
management of        ministers of the revisions to the 1998  March 31, 2004, and instructions were issued to finalize the      The Government has carried out several audits of the accounts of SONABEL
SONABEL and          law to adapt the legal and regulatory   report for adoption.                                              and SONABHY in the context of the preparation of their privatizations.
SONABHY              framework of the electricity sector.


                     (ii) Adoption of the development
                     strategies for the electricity and
                     petroleum sectors by the council of
                     ministers.


 Private sector      Preparation of a comparative study on   The study has not started before PSRC-4.                          The study is now planned to start in December 2005. A draft report is
 development         labor market laws and regulation.                                                                         expected in February 2006.

                     Begin of tripartite discussions on the  The discussions have taken place and the labor code revision      The revised Labor Code was adopted in September 2004. The
                     reform of the labor code.               was finalized in 2004.                                            implementation texts are not taken yet.




                                                                                          - 20 -

  Policy Area        Original Measures PRSC-4                    Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                        Progress as of end October, 2005
                                                              SECOND COMPONENT : HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT


A. Education
                Make sufficient budgetary allocations The 2004 budget included allocations consistent with the
                for the implementation of the PDDEB   PDDEB. Allocations exceeded initial provisions in the 2004-06
                                                      MTEF. In addition, PDDEB implementation benefited from
                                                      additional resources under the HIPC Initiative.

                                                      The DREBA are now responsible for recruitment and
                FINALIZATION OF THE TRANSFER OF       assignment of teachers and all recruitments are for a pre-
                RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE              specified regional post. However, the salaries continue to be
                                                      paid through the central budget until the decentralization
                RECRUITMENT AND ASSIGNMENT OF         process has progressed further with the nomination of
                TEACHERS TO THE DREBA AND             governors, extension of budget management systems to
                PREPARATION OF AN ACTION PLAN         regional   capitals, and    deconcentration   of the   payroll
                                                      management system.
                FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE

                TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR      The implementation of the study was delayed.                   The study was carried out and the Ministry of basic education is preparing an
                THE MANAGEMENT OF TEACHERS AND                                                                       action to address issues identified. The orientations for the action plan are: (i)

                RELATED BUDGETARY RESOURCES TO                                                                       strengthen the control, (ii) adopt a more flexible schedule for schools
                                                      The system of sub-cycles was implemented by decree with the    depending on local specificity; (iii) strengthen parents' participation in the
                DPEBA IN 2004.                        2003-04 school year. Verification was under way during the     management of schools. The action plan is slated for adoption in December
                                                      preparation of PRSC-4.                                         2005.
                INCREASE THE EFFECTIVE HOURS OF
                TEACHING TIME.

                                                      A draft sectoral MTEF for MEBA was prepared.                   A joint committee composed of staff from MEBA, MESSRS and Ministry of
                Verify the implementation of the                                                                     finance was established in October 2005 and is finalizing a draft MTEF for
                system of sub-cycles.                                                                                the entire sector. The draft MTEF is expected in the first quarter 2006.




                Preparation of a draft sectoral MTEF
                (MEBA et MESSRS).




                                                                                  - 21 -

  Policy Area      Original Measures PRSC-4                      Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                       Progress as of end October, 2005
B. Health      Ensure the provision of essential     Trigger fulfilled as specified.
               medication and care by:
               - Continuing the distribution of free The distribution of vitamin A supplements continues during the   Polio vaccination was not discontinued and the distribution of free vitamin A
               vitamin A supplements after the       polio vaccination days.                                          is being continued.
               discontinuation    of    the   polio
               vaccination days;
               -    Verifying     randomly       the The general health inspectorate has verified the application of
               application   of   the  new    price  the price structure and prepared an internal audit report in
               structure for generic drugs and       March 2004.
               essential  medical    services   and
               taking of corrective measures in
               cases of non-application;
               - Providing sufficient budgetary
               resources in 2004 for the provision   The 2004 budget provided resources for the provision of health
               of subsidized health services.        services at the prices specified in the February 2003 circular.




                                                                                  - 22 -

   Policy Area          Original Measures PRSC-4                       Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                      Progress as of end October, 2005

Health (continued) Pursue the deconcentration of health    New health workers are now directly assigned to regions.
                   ministry personnel by transferring the
                   newly educated health staff of the
                   national health school to the regional
                   and district level.

                   Prepare an action plan on the basis of  The studies on incentives for health worker staff have been   A comprehensive strategy to better motivate and manage health workers
                   the results of the WHO and Nouna        finalized and validated. However, an action plan for their    including the recruitment of staff by regions was adopted and the associated
                   studies on incentives for health        implementation was expected in June 2004, after the approval  action plan is being implemented under the supervision of the commission for
                   personnel and begin its                 of PRSC-4.                                                    human resource management created within the Committee in charge of the
                   implementation, assuring the                                                                          follow up of the PNDS.
                   financing of measures in the 2005-07
                   MTEF.

                   Increase the share of deconcentrated    The deconcentrated credits increased by 10 percent. Informal
                   credits in the health budget by 10      monitoring by the health ministry and the treasury began; a
                   percent in 2004 and put in place a      formal monitoring mechanism for the regies d'avance was
                   mechanism for regular monitoring of     proposed for adoption by the ministries in charge of finance
                   the régies d'avance.                    and health.

                                                           The MTEF was under preparation. Preliminary studies and       The MTEF for 2005-2007 was completed in February 2005.
                   Prepare a draft sectoral MTEF.          some training took place with the support of Bank staff and
                                                           other donors.

                                                          Triggers fulfilled as specified. The PNDS monitoring           The monitoring of health development program is satisfactory. A supervision
                   Establish a framework for annual        committee was named and met. Monitoring indicators were       missions composed of health ministry staff and representatives of donors
                   monitoring and evaluation of the        adopted in November 2003. A first bi-annual review with field visited health centres in late 2004 and made recommendations.
                   PNDS on the basis of its indicators     visits took place in March 2004.
                   and key objectives, jointly with
                   national partners and donors by:
                   - naming a committee for the PNDS
                   implementation;
                   - organizing through the committee
                   bi-annual reviews showing the
                   achievements of objectives, status of
                   disbursements, absorption rates,
                   and supporting and constraining
                   factors; and
                   - joint evaluation of the PNDS
                   implementation by way of
                   indicators.




                                                                                       - 23 -

    Policy Area        Original Measures PRSC-4                        Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                        Progress as of end October, 2005

C.   Water        Prepare and adopt an action plan for    The plan was finalized in early 2004 and integrated in the       The action plan is being implemented and will be updated thanks to the inputs
Infrastructure    achieving the MDGs in the water         revised PRSP and its action plan.                                provided by the survey of water points
                  sector in the rural and urban areas in
                  general and for the period 2003-05 in
                  particular.


                  Prepare a timetable and action plan for The preparation of the action was delayed.                       5 pilot cases of PPP are underway. An assessment will draw from these
                  the implementation of a public-private                                                                   experiences and propose a generalisation of the approach to the rest of
                  partnership in the water sector in                                                                       secondary water centres.
                  urban    areas    and    a   regulatory
                  framework by 2006.


                  Prepare an action plan to reduce        An action plan has been prepared to review the list of all users The review of all water connections in public building to reduce water
                  government water bills.                 belonging to the public administration and all water             leakages is under way.
                                                          connections in public buildings. A list of water connection
                                                          points billed to the government was prepared by the water
                                                          companied and transmitted for verification to the Ministry of
                                                          Finance.
                                                                             THIRD COMPONENT : GOOD GOVERNANCE

A.   Budget:      Adopt the draft budget and              Trigger fulfilled as specified.. The 2004 budget respects        The preparation of a global MTEF introduced in Burkina with the help of the
Formulation       program budgets for 2004 on the         baseline sectoral MTEF ceilings for ministries reflecting PRSP   Bank in 2000 is now well established. A global MTEF is prepared each year
                  basis of sectoral ceilings of the 2004- priorities.                                                      to allocate budget ceilings to line .ministries. The intersectoral allocations
                  06 MTEF and in line with the                                                                             take into account the PRSP priorities. Based on the ceilings each line ministry
                  priorities of the PRSP.                                                                                  prepares program budgets in line with the PRSP objectives.


                  Prepare a draft PER for the ministries  A PER for higher education was finalized and a PER for the       The two studies were completed and the government is currently
                  of higher education and justice.        justice ministry was under preparation.                          implementing key recommendations from these PER. For instance, budget
                                                                                                                           execution is now deconcentrated in these two ministries.

B.   Budget:      Effective integration of foreign-       No notable advance has been made in this respect. An             The integration of data of foreign financed investments into the budget
Execution         financed investments into the budget    AFRITAC mission has given technical assistance and               appeared to be more complex and difficult than expected. The government
                  execution monitored by the CID.         recommended the improvement of data collection and               eventually decided to build a new information management system based on
                                                          disbursement procedures and eventually the development of a      SYGADE, a debt management software initially designed by CNUCED for
                                                          new foreign-financing module for integration of data into the    debt management. The revision of the software is now planned to be
                                                          CID.                                                             completed by September 2006.

                  Finalize the technical concept for the  A consultant has been identified and hired for the preparation   The Software for budget execution ­CID- now covers 9 out of 13 regions and
                  integrated revenue circuit (CIR).       of the CIR concept. The study of the existing equipment was      activities are underway to connect the remaining 4 regions in 2006.
                                                          finalized and work on the concept for the computerization was
                                                          under way.

                 Operationalize the extension of the      Trigger fulfilled as specified. In addition to the existing
                 CID to a total of 5 regional capitals    connection to Bobo-Dioulasso, 4 regional capitals (Koudougou,
                 with a connection to the                 Ouahigouya, Kaya, and Tenkodogo) were identified, material
                 government accounting system             was purchased and the extension of the CID was made effective
                 (CIE).                                   in the first quarter of 2004.




                                                                                       - 24 -

    Policy Area         Original Measures PRSC-4                        Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                          Progress as of end October, 2005

C.   Budget:      Verification of application of the        Trigger fulfilled as specified. The audit report was finalized in Given the considerable time necessary to validate the manual or procedures
Procurement       new      procurement      decree,    the  March 2004.                                                       and the standard documents, the verification by IGF concentrated essentially
                  manual of procedures and the                                                                                on the new procurement decree. Future audits will verify the application of
                  standard documents for a sample of                                                                          these texts. A large external audit of 2004 procurement contracts was carried
                  public procurement during 2003 by                                                                           out in 2005 with the financing of EU. A CPPR was also conducted in 2005
                  the IGF.                                                                                                    and these two assessments are serving as the basis for a consolidated and
                                                                                                                              comprehensive action plan for procurement reform in Burkina for the
                  Preparation of a draft decree for         A first draft decree was finalized in March 2004.                 upcoming years.
                  leasing     and   concession    contracts
                  meeting best international practice.

                  Issue a ministerial arrêté determining    Two arrêtés were under preparation. A first round of
                  the conditions for the issuance and       discussions with the private sector took place in on the arrêté
                  withdrawal of accreditation for public    concerning road works, adoption of which was planned for end-
                  works corresponding to norms of           June 2004.
                  transparency and equity

                  Conceive a computer application to        The central directorate for procurement has been connected to
                  set up a database and a software          the computerized expenditure management system. Technical
                  application to follow the procurement     staff has been hired to begin with the conception of the
                  process consistent with the existing      computer application.
                  expenditure framework (CID).

D.   Budget       Satisfactory      implementation      of  Trigger fulfilled.                                                The government eventually decided to transform PRGB into a sector strategy
management and    PRGB measures in this area, in                                                                              document. Significant progress was made in that direction. Meantime, PRGB
ex post control   particular:                                                                                                 measures are being implemented under several financing from budget support
                                                                                                                              donors (Switzerland, Netherlands, France, Germany, Afdb and the Bank.
                  (i) application of the WAEMU budget       (i) The new WAEMU budget classification has been
                  classification;                           incorporated in the CID and is being applied since the 2004
                  (ii) preparation of treasury account      budget.
                  balances on a monthly basis and           (ii) Treasury account balances are being prepared monthly
                  preparation of the account balances       since March 2003. Account balances for 2002 were finalized in     The treasury has now catched up with the time requirements for the
                  for 2002;                                 December 2003.                                                    submission of government accounts (compte de gestion) to the Supreme
                                                                                                                              Audit Court in 2005. 2004 Accounts were transmitted to the national
                  (iii) strict application of the timetable                                                                   Assembly with the draft budget.
                  for budget operations to reduce the
                  level of expenditure committed and        (iii) The timetable for closing of budget operations was applied
                  not yet paid;                             strictly in 2003 and the government begun to remove unpaid
                                                            commitments from the payment circuit toward the end of the
                  (iv)       elaborate      and      begin  year. Excluding HIPC spending, the stock of unpaid
                  implementation of an action plan for      expenditure commitments fell by 2.3 CFAF billion in 2003
                  the creation of an accounting system      despite lower-than anticipated foreign disbursements.
                  for government property; and              (iv) An action plan was prepared. Implementation has begun in
                  (v)       continue      the      capacity 2004.
                  reinforcement at the IGE and IGF and
                  adopt a coherent status for staff in all
                  control services
                                                            (v) Staff of IGE was increased in 2004. The Council of
                                                            Ministers instructed the relevant ministries on March 31, 2004
                                                            to finalize a new decree on the status of control services.




                                                                                         - 25 -

    Policy Area          Original Measures PRSC-4                       Measures Implemented before PRSC-4                                               Progress as of end October, 2005

E.   Public sector  Finalization of the work to build a     The consistency check of the database was largely completed.         The software for personnel management was successfully implemented. A
reform and          consistent personnel database and       Only 116 inconsistent cases remained to be resolved.                 workshop to draw lessons of 5 years experience was held in 2004 and an
decentraliza-tion   maintenance            of           the Maintenance of the system remained hampered by weak                  action plan to develop the software and extend it to line ministries and
                    personnel management            system  resource allocation and difficulties to find skilled computer        regions was adopted. Several line ministries have been already using the
                    (SIGASPE).                              personnel.                                                           SIGASPE.

                    Preparation of an action plan for the
                    extension    of  SIGASPE      to   line An action plan was prepared. It focused on deconcentration of
                    ministries and deconcentration of       personnel management to line ministries but did not include the
                    personnel management.                   deconcentration to the regional level.

                   Implementation of the region as
                   deconcentrated entity and adoption       Trigger not yet fulfilled. Texts for the regions have been           The draft texts prepared by commissions headed by the Ministry in charge of
                   of the application texts for the         adopted in March-April 2003 defining the role and resources of       Decentralization were subject to intense interministerial discussions as
                   TODs.                                    governors. Resources for regions and their staff have been           regards the financial and human resource implications and took substantially
                                                            inscribed in the 2004 budget. The national assembly adapted          longer than expected. The governors for the 13 regions were nominated
                                                            the decentralization law in August 2003 to define the role of        eventually in late 2004. The finalization of the texts for the transfer of
                                                            villages,   departments,     provinces    and    regions   in   the  infrastructures, personnel and financial resources is underway. The texts
                                                            deconcentration and decentralization process. A variety of draft     should be adopted before the upcoming local elections scheduled in February
                                                            application texts have been prepared to regulate resource and        2006.
                                                            personnel transfers and define the role of the different players
                                                            (village elder, high commissioner, governor, regional council
                                                            etc).

F.   Environ-ment   Satisfactory implementation of the
                    measures       specified     in     the                                                                      The office responsible for EAs (DGACV) in the Ministry of environment has
                    Environmental Assessment for PRSC-                                                                           held in 2004 and 2005 several training sessions to sensitize the other
                    3, notably:                                                                                                  ministries staff of the importance of integrating environment issues in their
                    (i) sufficient budget funding in 2004   (i) Budget resources were increased but not sufficiently for         activities. It has also carried out supervision of IDA projects.
                    for   the   implementation    of   key  capacity building measures. The Ministry of Finance was to
                    measures of the capacity building       provide additional resources.
                    plan;
                    (ii) development of sectoral guidelines (ii) 6 sectoral guidelines were developed.
                    for EAs;
                    (iii) replacement of EA focal points    (iii) 3 large ministries (transport, finance, energy) replaced their
                    with cells; and                         focal points with cells; a fourth (decentralization) was
                                                            preparing the texts for implementing a cell.

                    (iv) enhanced supervision of EMP        (iv) Implementation of environmental management plans in 3
                    implementation of IDA credits.          IDA projects was evaluated.




                                                                                          - 26 -

                                     Appendix 3: Burkina Faso: Selected Economic Indicators

                                   Table 3. Burkina Faso: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 2002­06

                                                                          2002      2003     2004                2005                      2006
                                                                           Est.      Est.         Est.        Prog. 1/       Est.        Prog. 1/ Proj.

                                                                                  '(Annual percentage change; unless otherwise specified)

GDP and prices
GDP at constant prices                                                      5.2       8.0          4.6           3.5          3.5          4.8      4.8
GDP deflator                                                                3.3       1.5          3.3           1.7          3.2          2.2      2.6
Consumer prices (annual average)                                            2.3       2.0         -0.4           4.0          5.7          2.0      2.0
Consumer prices (end of period)                                             3.9       3.2          0.7           2.0          2.6          2.0      2.0

Money and credit
Net domestic assets (banking system) 2/                                     0.0      10.4          0.8           8.2         11.9          7.4      8.3
Credit to the government 2/                                                -9.7       2.4         -4.9           4.8          4.0          5.1      4.2
Credit to the private sector 2/                                            11.9       9.4          8.1           3.4          7.9          2.3      4.1
Broad money (M2)                                                            2.9      16.3         22.9           5.3          6.8          7.1      7.5
Velocity (GDP/M2)                                                           5.2       4.9          4.3           5.3          4.3          5.3      4.3

External sector
Exports (f.o.b.; valued in CFA francs)                                      4.3       9.1         23.3           1.4          1.9          8.5     19.7
Imports (f.o.b.; valued in CFA francs)                                      2.5      -0.7          4.9          13.1         16.7         10.6     12.9
Terms of trade                                                            -17.0      -0.8          1.8         -26.4        -29.3          0.3     -1.0
Real effective exchange rate (­ = depreciation)                             2.1       3.8         -1.1             ...         ...          ...      ...
World cotton price (US$ cents per pound) 3/                                46.3      63.4         62.0          53.0         54.0         55.0     59.5
Average petroleum spot price (US$ per barrel) 3/                           25.0      28.9         37.8          50.7         54.2         53.0     61.8

                                                                                      (In percent of GDP; unless otherwise indicated)

Gross investment                                                           17.5      17.0         18.6          19.5         20.1         20.8     20.1
Government                                                                  7.1       6.3          7.7           7.8          7.7          9.5      8.6
Nongovernment sector                                                       10.4      10.7         10.8          11.7         12.4         11.2     11.6
Gross domestic savings                                                      4.2       4.1          7.4           6.6          6.8          7.2      6.7
Government savings                                                          2.6       4.1          4.8           4.5          4.5          5.0      4.9
Nongovernment savings                                                       1.6       0.0          2.6           2.1          2.4          2.4      1.8
Gross national savings                                                      2.5       4.8         10.7          10.4         10.5          9.0      8.5

Central government finances
Current revenue                                                            11.4      12.1         12.8          13.3         13.1         14.0     13.8
  Of which: Tax revenue                                                    10.6      10.8         11.8          12.3         12.2         13.0     12.8
Total expenditure                                                          21.4      20.3         21.4          22.9         22.6         24.7     24.3
  Of which: Current expenditure                                            11.4      10.4         10.6          12.1         11.9         12.5     12.3
Overall fiscal balance, excluding grants                                  -10.0      -8.2         -8.6          -9.6         -9.5        -10.7    -10.5
Overall fiscal balance, including grants                                   -4.8      -2.9         -4.3          -4.3         -4.2         -7.3     -7.2

External sector
Exports of goods and services                                               9.0       8.9          9.9           9.6          9.5          9.6     10.4
Imports of goods and services                                              22.3      21.7         21.0          22.4         22.7         23.1     23.8
Current account balance (excluding current official transfers)            -12.6     -12.7        -10.7         -12.3        -12.8        -12.8    -12.7
Current account balance (including current official transfers)            -10.0      -8.6         -7.8          -9.1         -9.6        -11.8    -11.6

Nominal GDP (in billions of CFA francs)                                   2,277     2,494       2,696         2,838         2,872        3,039    3,089

 Sources: Burkinabè authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.

 1/ EBS/05/130, August 24, 2005.
 2/ In percent of beginning-of-period broad money.
 3/ Source: WEO.




                                                                               - 27 -

                                                    Appendix 4 : PRSC-4, 5 and 6 results indicators

        Policy Area           Expected Outcome                PRSP/PRSC             2001    2002     2003    2004    2005  2006
                                                               Indicators            actual  actual  actual  actual  est. target    comments
Macroeconomic               Accelerate real growth     Poverty headcount                     54.60%  46.40%                 41%
Framework                   and      reduce        the                                        (1998)
                            incidence of poverty.

                                                       -urban poverty headcount              22.40%  19.20%                 15%
                                                       -rural poverty                        61.10%  52.40%                 48%
                                                       Real GDP growth rate            6.8%    5.2%      8%    4.6%  7.7%

                                                              COMPONENT I: GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT

A.    Rural sector :

                            Improvement      of    the
                            competitiveness       and
                            economic performance
                            of the cotton sector
Reinforce the               Improvement      of    the Growth rate of cotton seed       37%      7%     18%     17%   24%
competitiveness of          coordination     in    the production
agricultural and agro-food  interprofession
sectors
                            Limit the state to         Growth rate of cotton fiber     6.7%   36.1%     18%     17% 24%
                            supervisory functions      exports
                            and transfer other
                            functions to
                            professionals in the
                            sector or to the private
                            sector
                                                       Evolution of the number                30,515                      40,000
                                                       of professional
                                                       agricultural organizations
                                                       with economic vocation

                            Clarification of the
                            roles and
                            responsibilities for
                            agricultural
                            development
                            Producers and their
                            organizations take a
                            larger role




                                                                              - 28 -

        Policy Area               Expected Outcome               PRSP/PRSC            2001    2002     2003     2004   2005  2006
                                                                  Indicators           actual  actual  actual  actual  est.  target    comments
                                Improvements in the
                                economic performance
                                of the sector

                                Facilitate private
                                investment and export
                                of agricultural products

Rural development               Diversification of        Growth of cereal                36%    0.6%   16.5%  -18.8%  16.0%
(Diversification)               agricultural production   production
                                                          growth of livestock            -16%     11%    -27%   10.1%    5%
                                                          exports
B.    Telecommunication         Private sector            Evolution of average costs                      170      170   170   150
sector                          participation in order to of telecommunication
                                increase the density of   between mobile and fix
                                the fixed net and reduce
                                the cost of fixed and
                                mobile telephone
                                services, in particular
                                the connection costs
                                between fixed line and
                                mobile phones.
                                                          number of users for fix                               80,000       100,00
                                                                                                                                 0
Privatization of ONATEL                                   number    of    users  for                           400,000       450,00
                                                          mobile                                                                 0
C.    Energy sector             Private sector            Evolution of costs of a                 110     110      110   110
                                participation in the      KwH (in the long run,
                                electricity and           until 2015)
                                petroleum sectors to
                                improve the
                                management of the
                                electricity and
                                petroleum distribution
                                companies, reduce
                                electricity production
                                costs and tariffs, and
                                reduce cost of
                                petroleum products
Private sector participation in
the energy and petroleum
sectors




                                                                                - 29 -

       Policy Area       Expected Outcome                PRSP/PRSC             2001    2002     2003    2004    2005  2006
                                                          Indicators            actual  actual  actual  actual  est.  target    comments
D.   Private sector    Identify strength and     Number of days needed to                              14      7      7
development            weaknesses of the         accomplish the formalities
                       existing labor market     to create a new business
                       laws and regulations

                                                 13.    Number of                      n.a.
                                                 businesses created
                       Reduce cost to start new
                       firms
                       Facilitate trade


                       Improve performance of
                       the justice system
E. Mining                                        growth of gold exports         -64.5%    77.2%  31.7%   36.4%


                                                        COMPONENT II: ACCESS TO BASIC SERVICES
A.   Education         Improve the public        Gross School enrollment                47.75%           56.8% 58.1%  60.2%
                       service in particular in  rate of 60.2 percent (51.9
                       rural areas               percent for girls)

                                                 gross school enrollement               41.00%   46.0%   51.0% 52.9%  51.9%
                                                 for girl
                                                 15.    School enrollment               32.90%   36.8%   42.2% 44.9%  46.0%
                                                 rate of 46 percent in the 20
                                                 most disadvantaged
                                                 provinces
                       Improve the school        16.    Admission rate for              52.90%   67.6%   77.7% 72.1%  89.7%
                       enrollment rate in rural  first grade of 89.7 percent
                       zones                     (83.7 percent for girls)

                                                 Admission rate for girls               45.40%     37%   64.1% 66.7%  83.7%
                                                 17.    Admission rate in               43.20%  36.80%  56.30%  48.80   46%
                                                 the 20 most disadvantaged                                         %
                                                 provinces
                       Achieve higher literacy   18.    Primary completion                      26.70%  32.76%  33.80  33.80
                       rates for the poor        rate of 33.8 percent                                              %      %
                                                 19.    Literacy rate of 36                        32%                  36%
                                                 percent (22 percent for
                                                 women)
                                                 Literacy rate for women                           17%                  22%
B.   Health




                                                                         - 30 -

        Policy Area             Expected Outcome               PRSP/PRSC             2001    2002      2003    2004    2005  2006
                                                                Indicators            actual  actual   actual  actual  est.  target    comments
Increase efficiency in use of
resources
                              Increase the availability
                              of resources on the
                              regional and provincial
                              level
                              Increase the protection   20.   Maternal mortality         484      484      313    313
                              of    children    against rate of 313 per 100,000
                              diseases                  births
                                                        21.   Child mortality rate       105      105       83      83        162.7
                                                        of 87 per 1000 live births
                                                        28.   Rate of assisted                   36%   33.49%           40%    50%
                                                        births: 55 percent
                                                        22.   CPN2 coverage                   54.10%              70%   75%    80%
                                                        rate: 80 percent
Improvement of access to      Reinforce             the 23.   Vaccination rates:
health services               implementation of the
                              PNDS

                                                        24.   DTC3: 87.5 percent       64.3%  69.2%     78.3%   87.7%        87.5%
                                                        25.   VAR: 87.5 percent                           71.2   78.34    85     85
                                                        26.   VAA: 87.5 percent                           71.6                 87.5
                                                        27.   BCG: 93 percent          84.4%    9.9%   86.3%   109.7%            93
                                                        29.   Percentage of health                                75.8  85%    90%
                                                        centers satisfying
                                                        personnel standards: 85
                                                        percent
                                                        30.   Children with                             42.2%     38%   35%    30%
                                                        insufficient weight: less
                                                        than 30 percent
Staff development
                              Increase the number of    % of health primary care     74.4%   76.2%    76.8%
                              staff in the remote areas centers with minimum
                                                        staff
Nutrition
C.    Social protection       Better    protection   of 31.   Number of children                                  20%   20%    20%
                              vulnerable groups         covered
                                                        32.   Number of re-                              1,432   2,285 2,732  3,532
                                                        inserted children




                                                                               - 31 -

    Policy Area           Expected Outcome              PRSP/PRSC              2001    2002     2003    2004    2005  2006
                                                          Indicators            actual  actual  actual  actual  est.  target    comments
D. Water Infrastructure
                        Increase    safe   water 33.   Number of               19      20                                37
                        coverage                 provinces with a safe
                                                 drinking water coverage
                                                 over 75 percent: 37
                                                 34.   Share of houses                           64.2%                  92%
                                                 with access to safe
                                                 drinking water: 92 percent
                                                 in rural and semi-urban
                                                 areas,
                                                 34 bis.    Share of houses                      88.5%
                                                 with access to safe
                                                 drinking water: 80 percent
                                                 in urban areas
                                                 35.   Household share                          33.30%     35%   39%    43%
                                                 with hygienic latrines in
                                                 urban areas: 43 percent

                                                                 COMPONENT III: GOVERNANCE
A. Budget: Formulation  Improve budget           36.   Share of the budget
                        formulation and the link allocated to social sectors
                        between program          (excluding foreign
                        budgets, MTEF, and       financed and HIPC)
                        budget.
                        Reinforce the link       health                                          9.40%  10.20%  10.95   11%
                        between public                                                                             %
                        expenditure and growth
                        and the link between
                        objectives, resource
                        allocation, and results
                        Improve the              education                                      12.40%  14.38%  14.30  14.50
                        transparency of public                                                                     %      %
                        expenditure
                        management
                                                 social protection                               0.80%   0.81% 0.90%     1%
                        Increase the             All together                                   22.60%  25.39%  26.15  26.50
                        responsibility of budget                                                                   %      %
                        managers
B. Budget: Execution
                        Improve budget           37.   Budget execution                            69%     70%   72%    77%
                        execution                rate in priority sectors
                                                 38.   Absorption rate of                          66%     70%   72%    77%
                                                 external resources exceeds




                                                                         - 32 -

        Policy Area          Expected Outcome               PRSP/PRSC            2001    2002     2003    2004    2005  2006
                                                             Indicators           actual  actual  actual  actual  est.  target    comments
                                                     77 percent


C.    Budget: Procurement  Improve the               39.    Number of audited                                10%   12%    15%
                           transparency of public    procurement contracts: 5
                           resource management.      percent

                           Efficient and simplified
                           procurement system.
D.    Budget management    Improve           budget
and ex post control        reporting   and   public
                           accounting
                           Dispose of a functional
                           classification         of
                           expenditure
                           Follow more closely the
                           use and location of
                           government property

                           Reinforce the ex post
                           control
E.    Public sector reform Improve        personnel  number of ministries                                       3     4     5
and decentraliza-tion      management and data       where SIGASPE was
                           on wage bill              installed

                                                     number of region where                                                13
                                                     the software was installed
Personnel Management
                           More            effective
                           management of human
                           resources
Public sector reform and   Improve local service
decentraliza-tion          delivery             and
                           empowerment of local
                           communities.
(continued)
Decentralization
Management of rural
development ministries
                           Improve efficiency and
                           quality if basic services
                           of        the       rural
                           development ministries.




                                                                           - 33 -

    Policy Area      Expected Outcome             PRSP/PRSC            2001    2002     2003    2004    2005  2006
                                                    Indicators          actual  actual  actual  actual  est.  target    comments
                   Larger and improved
                   supply of initial and
                   professional training in
                   agriculture
F. Environment     Improve    capacity  to  50 percent of the selected                                      4    15
                   assess    environmental  ministries    have      an
                   impact of government     environmental cell
                   activities and protect
                   environment.




                                                                 - 34 -

