Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB524 
Project Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (4) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%); Health (20%); 
Primary education (15%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry 
sector (15%); Other industry (15%) 
Project ID 
P078994 
Borrower(s) 
BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Secretariat Permanent pour le Suivie des Politiques et Programmes 
Financiers 
Ministere des Finances et du Budget 
Burkina Faso 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 2, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 30, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 11, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Burkina Faso is a poor landlocked country of almost 13 million inhabitants with very narrow 
resource base, low level of exports, and limited human development. A large share of the 
population is dependent on agricultural activities and exposed to frequent climatic shocks and 
fluctuating international cotton prices. Moreover, recent political instability in the subregion has 
further exacerbated Burkina Faso’s difficulties in increasing trade flows and attracting foreign 
investment. Progress in attaining macroeconomic stability, maintaining steady growth, and 
reducing poverty remains vulnerable to frequent external shocks and is dependent on steady and 
predictable foreign aid. The low level of human development, exemplified by illiteracy rates 
exceeding 75 percent and high infant and maternal mortality rates, signify the need for large 
investments in the social sectors to make quick progress toward the MDGs. In addition, further 
improvements to public management and the legal system are desirable to increase transparency 
and reinforce the rule of law. The objectives of the 2000 PRSP to maintain macroeconomic 
stability and enhance equitable growth, improve human development indicators, create income in 
deprived areas, and improve governance reflect these key development issues. The strategy has 
been reaffirmed in three progress reports and will be updated in 2004 through a new full PRSP. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
PRSC-4 would support the government in making progress toward key PRSP objectives. By 
providing the necessary external financing, it would support the government in maintaining a 
Page  2
 
 
sound macroeconomic framework. A stable macroeconomic framework would be essential for 
achieving the economy’s growth potential and reducing poverty as targeted under the PRSP.  
The operation would furthermore aim at enhancing growth potential by supporting measures to 
reduce factor costs and enhance the competitive environment. In the education sector, the 
operation would target improvements in primary school enrollment and graduation rates. In the 
health sector, PRSC-4 would aim at a reduction in infant and maternal mortality rates, higher 
health center usage rates, and comprehensive vaccination coverage. In the water sector, PRSC-4 
would support key policy reform increase the share of the population with access to safe water, 
and reduce the public administration’s water bill. Moreover, to reinforce the programmatic links 
of the budget with the PRSP, enhance transparency of public spending and discourage 
corruption, reduce the cost of public procurement, and improve service delivery at the local and 
regional level, the operation would support key public sector reform measures and steps for 
decentralization. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has supported PRSP implementation through 3 PRSCs in 2001-03. PRSC-4 would 
continue quick-disbursing assistance to PRSP implementation by providing predictable resources 
for the 2004 budget that was adopted by the national assembly in December 2003. Through its 
PRSCs, the Bank has established a credible framework for supporting the PRSP, with 
increasingly close collaboration with other donors. Bank support through PRSC-4 would be 
crucial to maintain macroeconomic stability, implement the 2004 budget, and make progress 
toward PRSP objectives. Concrete actions supported under PRSC-4 would be closely intertwined 
with the PRSP objectives. 
 
4. Description 
 
In order to support progress toward PRSP objectives, PRSC-4 would support policies under three 
components: growth and employment creation, human resource development, and good 
governance. Measures for each of the component have been described in the program document 
for the previous operation, PRSC-3. They include steps fostering private sector involvement in 
telecommunication services, electricity production, petroleum product distribution, and cotton 
production to reduce factor costs and entice investments. In the education sector, they include 
measures aiming at better access to schooling, higher quality of education, and improved 
management of the school system at sustainable cost levels. Health sector reforms intend to give 
better access to care at lower costs, raise vaccination rates, and improve the management of the 
health sector. Public sector reforms include measures to improve budget formulation, verify the 
application of procurement regulation, improve electronic information systems, deconcentrate 
budget execution, introduce a new budget classification, and operationalize the decentralization 
framework. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
60 
 Total 
60 
Page  3
 
 
 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The reform program funded by this credit will be implemented by several ministries. The 
Permanent Secretariat for the Supervision of Financial Policies and Programs (SP-PPF) at the 
Ministry of Finance and Budget is coordinating the contributions of different ministries. 
Ministries involved in the implementation of the program are the Ministries of Finance of Budget 
(budget management reform, budget process, and budget allocations for line ministries), the 
Ministry of Economy and Development (economic developments and statistics, PRSP, statistical 
monitoring system), Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy (implementation of PDDEB), 
Ministry of Health (implementation of PNDS), Ministry of Commerce and Enterprise 
Development (privatization program, cotton reform), Ministry of Agriculture, Water, and Fishing 
(cotton reform, institutional reforms, agricultural diversification, sanitation program), Ministry of 
Territorial Administration and Decentralization (decentralization program), Ministry of Civil 
Service and Reform of the State (public administration reform), Ministry of Energy and Mines 
(energy reform), and Ministry of Environment and Living Conditions (environmental reforms 
and analysis). 
 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The reforms supported by the credit are expected to be sustained. By embedding the credit in a 
medium-term reform program that is owned by the government through the PRSP process, the 
measures supported by the credit and its results should be sustained in the medium and long run. 
The sustainability is enhanced by the series of PRSCs that accompany the reform program and 
ensure a close monitoring of results.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
A stocktaking workshop in Ouagadougou on March 22-23 with participants from a variety of 
government institutions, private sector and civil society discussed experiences with the PRSC in 
2001-03. It evolved around the following themes: the government’s interest in receiving 
predictable budget support for PRSP implementation within a medium-term programmatic 
framework; the importance of predictability of budget support; the integration of sectoral 
ministries into the PRSC; and efforts in harmonizing donor interventions. Participants in four 
plenary sessions underlined the overall good experience thus far with the PRSC instrument in 
offering reliable support for PRSP implementation through the budget and welcomed the efforts 
to align PRSCs more closely with the budget cycle. They noted the risks linked to a variation of 
PRSC amounts in case of unsatisfactory progress. Participants from line ministries, in particular 
the Ministry of Health, described the difficulties encountered in switching from a project 
approach to budget support. The health ministry was finalizing a long-term health-sector 
development program when the first PRSC was approved and sectoral policymaking and 
monitoring tools still needed to be developed. Moreover, health ministry staff underscored the 
practical problems arising from insufficient budget allocations for implementing measures 
included in the PRSC matrix. Donor participants presented the complex issues in harmonizing 
Page  4
 
 
budget aid and timing and the efforts undertaken in the joint budget support group (SBC-CSLP), 
noting that the main approaches using either policy actions or indicators as disbursement criteria 
were complementary. Participants in general believed that under the second PRSP (expected to 
be presented to the Executive Boards of the IMF and the World Bank by mid-2004) and a new 
PRSC series the government should focus on improving capacity and analytical tools to better 
program and evaluate budgetary spending; process the information generated by the collection of 
statistics and indicators more regularly. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[X] [] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Jan Walliser 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2329 
Fax:  
Email: jwalliser@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
 
 
 
