Page  1
 
 
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC493 
 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: February 11, 2004 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Burkina Faso 
Project ID: P078994 
Project Name: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (4) 
Task Team Leader: Jan Walliser 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 31, 2004 
Estimated Board Date: May 11, 2004 
Managing Unit: AFTP4 
Lending Instrument: Poverty Reduction Support 
Credit 
Sector: General public administration sector (35%); 
Health (20%); Other industry (15%); General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (15%); 
Primary education (15%) 
Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring 
(P); Public expenditure, financial management and 
procurement (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring 
and privatization (S); Administrative and civil 
service reform (S); Decentralization (S) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team: Remi Kini 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IDA: 60 
Other financing amounts by source: none 
 
 
 
B.  Project Objectives  
 
PRSC-4 would support the government in making progress toward key PRSP objectives. By providing the necessary 
external financing for the implementation of the government’s budget, it would support the government in 
maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework. The latter would be essential for achieving the economy’s growth 
potential and reducing poverty as targeted under the PRSP.  The operation would furthermore aim at enhancing 
growth potential by supporting measures to reduce factor costs and enhance the competitive environment. In the 
education sector, the operation would target improvements in primary school enrollment and graduation rates. In the 
health sector, PRSC-4 would aim at a reduction in infant and maternal mortality rates, higher health center usage 
rates, and comprehensive vaccination coverage. In the water sector, PRSC-4 would support key policy reform 
increase the share of the population with access to safe water, and reduce the public administration’s water bill. 
Moreover, to reinforce the programmatic links of the budget with the PRSP, enhance transparency of public 
spending and discourage corruption, reduce the cost of public procurement, and improve service delivery at the local 
and regional level, the operation would support key public sector reform measures and steps for decentralization. 
 
 
C.  Project Description  
 
In order to support progress toward PRSP objectives, PRSC-4 would support policies under three components: 
growth and employment creation, human resource development, and good governance. Measures for each of the 
component have been described in the program document for the previous operation, PRSC-3. They include steps 
fostering private sector involvement in telecommunication services, electricity production, petroleum product 
distribution, and cotton production to reduce factor costs and entice investments. In the education sector, they 
include measures aiming at better access to schooling, higher quality of education, and improved management of the 
school system at sustainable cost levels. Health sector reforms intend to give better access to care at lower costs, 
raise vaccination rates, and improve the management of the health sector. Public sector reforms include measures to 
improve budget formulation, verify the application of procurement regulation, improve electronic information 
systems, deconcentrate budget execution, introduce a new budget classification, and operationalize the regions 
Page  2
 
 
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
 
The project has no specific location and project components will be implemented in many locations, rural and urban, 
in Burkina Faso. 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies 
 
An initial assessment of capacity at the beginning of the first PRSC in 2001 found that Burkina Faso has the 
necessary regulations pertaining to environmental assessment but compliance with such regulations was weak. 
There were three main reasons for this low performance in complying with EA regulations. The first one was the 
very recent enactment of these regulations (1997), and the late adoption of the implementation decree of these 
regulations (June 2001). The second reason was the lack of clarity in the responsibilities of the institutions 
responsible for ensuring compliance with these regulations. Finally, the lack of technical capacity and awareness 
both within the government and in the non-government sector for applying EA to development operations 
constituted a great obstacle to getting higher level of compliance with the enacted regulations. Based on this 
assessment, capacity building in environmental assessment was a key aspect of prior PRSCs. Several measures, such 
as the creation of focal points for EAs, the clarification of key responsibilities, and the preparation of a three-year 
capacity building plan were implemented under prior PRSCs to tackle the institutional and capacity problems 
mentioned above. Further capacity building measures under the government’s capacity building plan would be 
supported under PRSC-4. However, these measures still need to be complemented and supported by sufficient 
investment in creating the technical skills needed to improve the enforcement of EA requirements in the 
implementation of the public investment program. In fact, compliance with EA requirements remains weak in both 
the private and the public sector despite the above-mentioned achievements. Lack of awareness among public and 
private operators, and low technical capacity of the agencies responsible for enforcing EA requirements remain 
strong binding constraints to achieving effective enforcement of, and compliance with EA requirements. 
 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[x] 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01) 
 
 
PRSC-4 may have potential adverse impact from privatization of the telecommunications 
company, the reform of the energy sector and its regulation, and the sale of two cotton ginning 
plants to private investors. Other environmental safeguard issues may arise from government 
investments in infrastructure in the education sector and the waste management of government 
health centers. 
 
The strategy for ensuring sufficient environmental safeguards for activity financed under PRSC-4 
builds largely safeguards for ongoing World Bank projects and their environmental management 
plans (EMP). The enforcement of EMPs is ensured through improved supervision by the Ministry 
of Environment that is part of the ongoing capacity building supported by PRSCs.  
a) 
Under the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project (Environmental 
Assessment E530), a pre-audit was conducted and it was determined that a full 
environmental audit and a decommissioning plan would be prepared under the project for 
the telecommunications operator ONATEL prior to the launching of the bidding process. 
The implementation of these activities have been monitored by the EMP of this project. 
b) 
The reform process of the energy sector is guided by both the Competitiveness and 
Enterprise Development Project (as regards restructuring of the sector) and an Energy 
Sector Reform Project (new investments) under preparation. The Competitiveness Project 
included the environmental audits to prepare the privatization of the petroleum importer 
SONABHY and private sector involvement in the electricity company SONABEL. 
Separate environmental audits for new investments in the electricity sector have been 
conducted as preparation for the Energy Reform Project. 
Page  3
 
 
c) 
As regards the sale of cotton ginning plants to private investors, as described in the 
environmental assessment for PRSC-3, an environmental audit has been conducted for all 
ginning plants of the current operator SOFITEX to prepare for launching the financial 
bids under the current project. 
d) 
In the education sector, safeguard policies for school construction, renovations, and 
sanitation are being implemented under the Basic Education Sector Project through the 
Project Implementation Manual and additional environmental work conducted during 
project implementation by the project implementation unit. 
e) 
In the health sector, safeguards for health waste management are being applied under the 
HIV-AIDS Disaster Response Project (Environmental Assessment E715) and its waste 
management action plan. 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
 
 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
 
 
The potential intensification of cotton production, triggered in part by the sale of two zones to 
private investors, could also intensify the use of pesticides. 
 
The safeguards issues related to pest management have been raised in the context of the 
Community-driven Rural Development Project (Environmental Assessment E377). They will be 
addressed in a broader context under the EMP of this project. 
 
 
 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
 
 
PRSC-4 would not finance activities requiring involuntary resettlement of population. 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
) 
 
 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
 
 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
 
 
[ ] 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
) 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 
7.50) 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Assessment Category:
    
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
If TBD, explain determinants of classification and give steps that will be taken to determine that EA category 
(mandatory):  
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
The safeguard policies for the operation would be laid out in an environmental annex to the program document that 
builds on the available environmental analysis, the environmental audit of ginning plants, and existing safeguard 
measures outlined above.  
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  4
 
 
 
A. 
Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS would be prepared. 
March 26, 2004. 
 
B. 
For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage ISDS 
 
C. 
Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  The specific 
studies and their timing
1
 should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
The environmental annex would be prepared by the Burkinabè government and reviewed with them by March 8, 
2004. It would be disclosed in Burkina Faso and the World Bank’s infoshop before the authorization of appraisal of 
the operation, anticipated for March 26, 2004. As background for the environmental annex, environmental audits for 
all ginning plants were conducted in the identification phase of PRSC-4 to prepare for the launching of financial 
bids for two cotton zones.  
 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
  
Task Team Leader: 
Jan Walliser 
2/11/04 
Approved by: 
  
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Thomas Walton 
2/12/04 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Marcelo Andrade (Acting) 
2/12/04 
Comments 
                                                          
 
1
 
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially af
fected 
persons.
 
 
