Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3900 BUR 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 13, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3900 BUR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 2004, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 
9, 2004, (the Letter of Development Policy) describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in a 
single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.” 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;  
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association 
a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:  
(a) 
“BCEAO” means 
Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest
;
(b) 
“CID” means 
circuit informatisé de la dépense
,
the computerized 
expenditure management system of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“CFAF” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine,
 the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(d)  
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the period from January 1 to December 31;  
(f) 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower's letter referred to in 
paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(g) “MEBA” 
means 
Ministère de l’Enseignement de Base et de 
l’Alphabétisation, 
the Borrower’s ministry of basic education; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“MTEF” means the Borrower's medium-term expenditure framework; 
(i) 
“ONATEL” means the Borrower’s national telecommunication operator; 
and 
(j) 
“PRSP” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, dated 
June 2000, as updated and amended.
 
ARTICLE II
 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty million nine hundred thousand
 
Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 40,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit 
Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in BCEAO, a 
deposit account in CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall 
have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as 
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2014 and ending April 15, 
2044. Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2024, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred 
to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall 
Page  6
-
5
-
be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
Page  7
-
6
-
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date one-hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
Ministère des Finances et du Budget 
03 BP 7008 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
 
  Facsimile: 
SEGEGOUV 
  5555 
  (226) 
31-27-15 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By  
/s/  Tertius 
Zongo 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ A. David Craig 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed 
or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Page  12
-
11 -
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower  
The Borrower has:  
(a) 
adopted the MTEF for FY 2004-2006 and a 2004 budget reflecting the 
priorities under the revised and updated PRSP in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 41 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(b) 
has invited the pre-qualified bidders to submit financial bids for the cotton 
zones of the center and the east including the respective ginning plants and opened these 
bids, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 20, of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
(c) 
has invited pre-qualified bidders to submit bids for a minority of shares of 
ONATEL, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 21 of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
(d) 
has adopted a new strategic framework for the electricity sector, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 22 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(e) 
has verified through the services of the general health inspectorate the 
application of the price structure defined by the February 2003 circular letter of the secretary 
general of the health ministry, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 27 of the Letter 
of Development Policy; 
(f) 
extended the CID to the regional capitals of Koudougou, Ouahigouya, Kaya 
and Tenkodogo and begun issuing payment orders, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 42 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(g) 
verified through the services of the general finance inspectorate the 
application of the May 2003 decree for public procurement, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 42 of the Letter of Development Policy; and 
(h) 
begun to prepare monthly treasury account balances and prepared the 
general account balance for 2002, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 42 of the 
Letter of Development Policy.
 
