Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C         ? -VA",
Report No. P-4190-GUA
REPORT AiD RECOMMENOATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
GUYANA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR TILE BAUXITE INDUSTRY
July 17, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Guyana Uollar (G$j
Since Uctober 6, 19a4, the currency is adjusted weekly with respect to
movements in a basket of currencies consisting of the Pound Sterling, the
Deutsche Mark, the French Franc, the Netherlands Guilder and the Japanese
Yen.
Annual Average
19b2-63             US$1.00 = G$3.UUU          G*1.OO = US*0.333
1984                US$1.0O = GS3.8258         G*1.OU = USU.2bl
19b5 (Jar.-June)    US*1.UU = GS4.3UUO         G41.UU = US*U.233
AkSBREVIATIONS
BIDCO    -  Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
CPEs     -  Centrally Planned Economies
EEC      -  European Economic Community
EFF      -  Extended Fund Facility
ETh      -  European Investment Bank
GIUYMINE  -  Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd.
DBB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      -  International Monetary Fund
LIB      -  1-imited International Bidding
UECI)    -  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
RAISI    -  Reynolds Aluminum International Services, Inc.
REER     -  Real Effective Exchange Rate
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THkE BAUXITE INDUSTRY
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Government of Guyana.
Beneficiaries:    Bauxite Industry Development Company (BIDCO).
Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd. (GUYKINE).
Amount:           SDR 6.6 million (US$7 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Onlending Terms: The Government would pass on USS5.3 million equivalent to
BIDCO for onlending to GUYMINE; the onlending terms would
be for a period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at an interest rate equivalent to the IBRD's lending rate
prevailing at the tLUe of credit approval. GUYMINE would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The balance of credit
proceeds (about US$1.7 million equivalent) would be
passed on to BIDCO and made available to GUYMINE in the
form of equity.
Project
Objectives and
Description:      The objective of the proposed project would be to provide
a basis for assessing the medium- to long-term economic
and financial viability of the bauxite industry and, as
appropriate, assist in the preparation of a full scale
rehabilitation project. The proposed project would
consist of four basic components: (i) a product
development program which would include a market study
for new products and a pilot plant for new refractory
products; (ii) a cost control program; (iii) marketing
support, technical assistance, and training; and (iv) an
alternative fuel study.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        The proposed technical assistance project would
contribute significantly towards the strengthening of the
bauxite industry's management and marketing capabilities
as well as provide a framework for assessing the
potential benefits to be derived from new product
development and the institution of new cost reduction
measures. Preliminary estimates indicate that, if the
case for financing the bauxite industry's rehabilitation
program is confirmed, its implementation is likely to
have high financial and economic rates of return and that
GUYMINE would return to sustained profitability within
two to three years. As a minimum, the survival of
Guyana's largest export industry should result in
I    doument husa mrkteddibution and may be ued by meciOpnt only i.the pufannmce
of hed ocisi dutieL Its contents nmy not othwinse be dsiad without Wod BEnk authoriztion



- ii -
substantial benefits in the form of increased foreign
exchange earnings as well as in direct and indirect
employment. The realization of the expected project
benefits depends on GUYMINE and BIDCO implementing the
project in a timely and successful manner. Work has
already been initiated on both the new product
development program and the cost control system and there
are good prospects that any technical problems would be
resolved without major delays. Unexpected delays, and
resulting cost overruns in the implementation of the
proposed project could also occur due to the relative
weakness of GUYMINE's management. However, this risk is
expected to be minimized in view of the external
technical assistance to be provided and the active role
to be played by the Project Implementation Unit to be
established. There is also a risk that GUYKMNE's
financial situation may deteriorate to the extent that
the company is forced into closure before the benefits of
the project are realized. Such a situation could arise
from a further disastrous collapse in. market prices or
bauxite sales. This is considered unlikely.
Furthermore, BIDCO/GUYMLIE are taking positive steps to
protect and, where possible, increase its market share
vis-a-vis its competitors.
-        US$ million
FOREIGN     LOCAL       TOTAL
Estimated Project Costs:
Product Development Facility
Phase I, Separation Pilot                      0.27         .09         .36
Phase II, Agglomeration Tests                  0.18         .03         .21
Phase III, Agglomeration Pilot Plant           0.40         .04         .44
Cost Control Program
Cost Accounting System                         0.60         .03         .33
Cost Control Components                        2.70         .53        3.23
Marketing and Technical Assistance              1.20         .10        1.30
Alternative Fuel Study                          0.40         .00        0.40
TOTAL                                 5.75        .82         6.57
-             _
Physical Contingencies                          .97         .14        i.11
Price Contingencies                             .28         .04        0.32
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             7.00       1.00         8.00



- iii -
-------S$ million
FOREIGN     LOCAL      TOTAL
Estimated Financing:
IDA                                            7.0        -          7.0
The Government                                 -          1.0        1.0
TOTAL                                 7.0        1.0        8.0
EsLimated Disbursements:
US$ million
1986       1987       1988
Bank Group Fiscal Year                         0.8        5.4        0.8
Map Number:       IBRD 19120



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO GUYANA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE BAUXITE INDUSTRY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit of US$7.0 million equivalent to Guyana, on standard IDA terms, to
help finance a Technical Assistance Project for the Bauxite Industry.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Guyana in January/February 1985 and
an economic report has been distributed to the Executive Directors
(Guyana - A Framework for Economic Recovery, Report No. 5592-GUA, of
Hay 15, 1985). Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        The economy of Guyana is primarily dependent on the production of
sugar, rice, bauxite and alumina.  Most of the agricultural activity is
concentrated along the coastal plains of the country, whereas the resources
within the densely tropical hinterland remain largely unexploited with the
exception of bauxite mining. The mineral and timber resources contained
within the interior are extensive, but access is limited because of
undeveloped infrastructure. At the time of Guyana's independence in 1966,
the bauxite and sugar sectors were controlled by foreign interests, with
the indigenous private sector involved in local trading and distribution,
agriculture and some small-scale manufacturing. Since the early 1970s,
this distribution of ownership has changed substantially. The Government
nationalized the bauxite and sugar sectors, and has progressively become
the main actor in the other economic sectors. It is the major employer and
controls over 90% of the recorded import and export trade.
4.        Economic performance during the 1970s was mixed.  During the
first half of the decade, real income grew by about 4.0% per annum as a
result of the rapid growth in Government expenditures and favorable prices
for Guyana's major export commodities. Unlike in many other developing
countries, the rapid increases in oil prices during 1973-74 were only
slightly disruptive in the short-term, as they were offset by a boom in the
price of sugar in 1974-75. The terms of trade for Guyana improved by
approximately 30% during 1970-75. National per capita income increased by
about 6% per annum, resulting in a rapid expansion in consumption and
investment (5% and 10% per annum, respectively). Much of the growth
occurred in the public sector, which utilized the windfall associated with
sugar (approximately US$140 million during 1974 and 1975) to expand both
Central Government consumption and investment expenditures.
5.        The period 1975-80, on the other hand, witnessed an economic
decline as a result of the fall in sugar prices, the weakening in the
demand of Guyana"s main exports, and the reduced output in the two main



productive sectors. The terms of trade fell during 1975-80 by
approximately 30%, wiping out the gains enjoyed in the first half of the
decade. Moreover, the levels of both consumption and investment
expenditures failed to adjust promptly with undesirable implications for
the balance of payments. During 1975-80, the resource gap averaged 12% of
GDP compared to less than 2% during 1971-75.
Government Response to the Crisis
6.        The Government's first coherent response to the post 1975 crisis
was the implementation of a short-term stabilization program in 1978,
supported by an IMF Stand-by agreement and a Bank/IDA Program Loan/Credit.
The program succeeded in temporarily improving fiscal performance and the
balance of payments by sharply reducing consumption and investment
expenditures in 1978. The public sector current account turned from a
deficit of 3% of GDP in 1977 to a surplus of 4% in 1978, while the overall
deficit declined from 21% to 13% of GDP. The deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments also dropped from 22% to 6% of GDP in
1978. The program did not, however, adequately address the underlying
structural constraints to increasing and sustaining investment, savings and
output levels and to adjusting the economy to the new international
economic environment.
7.        Recognizing that a longer term program was required to address
the fundamental development constraints of the economy, in 1979 the
Government entered into a three-year IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
arrangement. Guyana, however, failed to meet the program targets as a
result of (i) its inability to further reduce government expenditures and
contain domestic financial imbalance, and (ii) the continuing production
problems, related in particular to the labor unrest in the key
export-oriented sectors during 1979 and a further deterioration in the
terms of trade brought about by the second round of sharp oil price
increases.
8.        Faced with the continuing economic crisis, in 1980 the Government
began to formulate an economic program that aimed at resuming economic
growth, generating employment and strengthening the balance of payments
through the development and expansion of export-generating and efficient
import-substituting activities. In the short term, the program aimed at
improving the utilization of existing productive capacity, especially of
exportable goods, the execution of a production-oriented investment program
in both the public and private sectors, and substantial increases in the
level of national savings. In the longer term, it hoped to achieve a
structural transformation of the economy through: (a) sustained growth in
the production of agricultural commodities, of mining, fishing and forestry
products, and of non-traditional manufactures, and a simultaneous restraint
in the rate of growth of the Government sector; (b) diversification of the
output of the productive sectors by introducing new activities and by
increasing processing of raw materials such as timber, root crops, etc.;
(c) substitution of the imports of fossil fuels by the development of
hydroelectric power and also by utilizing local and imported energy more
efficiently; and (d) broadening the productive base by the development of
industry to include, in the longer term, the smelting of aluminum using
hydroelectric power.



- 3 -
9.        The Government's program was supported by a new IMF Extended Fund
Facility of SDR 100 million (augmented to SDR 150 million in mid-1981), and
a Bank/IDA Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit of US$22 million equivalent.
Under the IMF/EFF arrangement, the Government agreed, among other things,
to initiate the removal of price distortions, improvements in the producti-
vity of labor, to increase agricultural yields, and improvements in the
relationship between the Government and the private sector, particularly
through the removal of obstacles to private initiatives. Similarly, under
the Bank/IDA structural adjustment program, specific sector policies were
formulated which pertained to (i) energy resource development and
conservation; (ii) export development, especially relating to sugar, rice,
fisheries, timber, bauxite/alumina and non-traditional manufactures;
(iii) rationalization of pricing policies; and (iv) improving
organizational and managerial efficiency.
10.       The performance of the program fell far short of the targets
set because of the excessive delays in implementing critical policies, such
ds the failure to make relevant price adjustments on a timely basis
following the devaluation of 1981 and the lack of recognition on the part
of the Government of the seriousness of the economic problem. In mid-1982,
the IMF arrangement was terminated because of Guyana's failure to meet its
targets. Since then, Guyana has been unable to conclude another program
with the IMF because of the lack of conviction on the part of the
Government that the measures being proposed would be sufficient to revive
the economy and the realization that should the measures be taken it was
unlikely that the foreign resources necessary to support the program would
be available. The IMF and the Bank have, nevertheless, continued to urge
the Government to initiate measures on its own to strengthen the balance of
payments, such as an adjustment of the exchange rate through either
systematic deregulation or floating of the Guyana currency, as well as
other measures including the removal of price controls, and greater
emphasis on domestic resource mobilization, particularly through a
reduction of deficits in the public sector.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       Output.  During 1981-83, real GDP contracted significantly, with
output in 1983 approximately 182 lower than the level achieved in 1979.
There were significant declines in the bauxite and sugar sectors due to a
combination of technical, labor and managerial problems. Problems in
production-particularly of bauxite--not only reduced the operating
revenues of individual corporations, but also drastically reduced foreign
exchange earnings. This situation in turn inhibited the importation of the
spare parts and machinery necessary to overcome the technical problems of
the two sectors. The production and export problems were exacerbated by
the continued weakening in the external demand and prices for both bauxite
and sugar.
12.       The economy experienced some recovery in output in 1984,
primarily as a result of improvements in bauxite production, however,
preliminary data indicate a slight decline in 1985. Beginning 1983,
GUYNINE undertook, with external technical assistance, a program to
streamline its operations and rehabilitate its equipment. There was also a
significant recovery in rice production, which resulted from an increase in
the acreage reaped and generally favourable weather conditions. Sugar



- 4 -
production, however, continued to be disappointing, with output declining
to its lowest level in over ten years. The decline resulted from unusually
heavy rainfall during the fall of 1984 which impeded harvesting. Other
manufacturing activities continued to be very depressed owing to a lack of
imported spare parts and inputs.
13.       As a result of the deteriorating economic performance since 1980,
the real levels of consumption and investment expenditures have steadily
declined. The official statistics indicate a drastic contraction in
private consumption, evidenced by the shortages in basic consumer
commodities. However, the growth of the unofficial consumer market
suggests the inappropriateness of the official statistics on national
product and thus on aggregate consumption expenditures. The rate of
decline in consumption may thus be significantly lower than the level
indicated by the official statistics.
14.       Investment and Savings.  Investment as a percentage of GDP has
declined steadily since 1980; it was 23Z in 1984 compared to 32Z in 1980.
This decline resulted from the worsening fiscal situation, the lack of
foreign exchange, and the drop in project-related external capital inflows
in recent years. The above features are reflected in the trends in
national savings which have declined in absolute and relative terms since
1978. The main reason for the decline has been the deterioration of public
finances, particularly since 1981. Foreign savings have thus financed an
increasing proportion of total investment since 1978.
15.       Public Finances.  The deterioration in the real economy of Guyana
during 1981-83, unaccompanied by timely demand reduction policies, has
resulted in a significant worsening of the public sector finances over the
past four years. Public sector savings have been negative since 1981, and
the overall budget deficit widened from 13X of GDP in 1978 to about 60% in
1984. There was a slight worsening of the situation in 1985. Until 1981,
the current account deficit of the Central Government was offset by the
surpluses of the public corporations. However, the decline in
interiational demand for the output of the bauxite and sugar sectors has
meant a substantial decline in revenues and large operating deficits. The
problem has been further compounded by a decline in real economic activity
and an increase in the size of the parallel market, both of which have
helped to erode the Government's revenue base. While the Government has
sought to curtail the growth of expenditures its measures have been slow
and insufficient to offset the decline in real revenues. To finance the
public sector deficit, and particularly the substantial capital
expenditures of 1980-82, the Government resorted to short- to medium-term
domestic borrowing, mainly from the banking system. This policy has put
increasing pressure on Central Government expenditures as domestic interest
payments have risen sharply. Interest payments have increased by 238%
cumulatively since 1980; in 1984 alone actual interest payment represented
30% of total Central Government expenditures.
16.       Balance of Payments.  Despite a 44% decline in exports during
1980-84, the resource gap has widened by only 14%, reflecting the
substantial decline in imports that occurred over the period. The current
account deficit in 1984 represented 26% of GDP compared to 22% in 1980.
The current account deficits were financed by concessional capital inflows



- 5 -
while the shortfalls were accounted for by the accumulation of external
arrears which amounted to US$625.4 million or 158Z of GNP at the end of
1984.
17.       With the exception of a moderate increase in 1984, exports of
goods and non-factor services have declined continually since 1980, as a
result of the poor production performance in the sugar sector and weak
external demand for bauxite products. In 1984, sugar exports were 49% of
1980 levels (volumes declined by 34Z), and bauxite about 48Z (with a volume
decline of 43%). The fall in export earnings of the two leading sectors
also resulted from the decline in export prices; the price for sugar fell
by 26% while that for bauxite fell by 15%. The Government's system of
import license and foreign exchange allocation has been vigorously enforced
in an effort to reduce the level of official merchandise imports. In
particular, importation of consumer and intermediate goods has been
significantly reduced; by 1984 they were 28% and 54% respectively of their
1980 levels. Furthermore, as the result of the build-up of external
commercial arrears, external financial and commercial agencies have, since
1983, refused to extend suppliers' credit facilities to support Guyana's
imports, which are currently on a cash basis.
Development Strategy
18.       The Government's national development priorities as outlined in
its budget for 1984 and 1985 emphasize an agricultural thrust with a view
to food self-sufficiency, as well as the need for more efficient resource
allocation (including a program of regionalism and cooperatism),
institutional restructuring and solution to the domestic and external debt
problems. The Government's recent program addresses policy changes with
respect to the exchange rate, the public sector deficit and price
liberalization.
19.       Exchange Rate Policy.  In an effort to arrest the rapidly
deteriorating foreign exchange situation and to reduce the parallel market
premia payable by consumers and producers as a result of the disequilibrium
in the official exchange rate, the Government on January 11, 1984, devalued
the Guyana currency by about 2O0 vis-a-vis the US dollar. Concurrently,
the Government implemented the mechanism of a currency basket (originally
conceived of in 1981) for monitoring the value of the Guyana dollar which
is announced on a weekly basis. Meanwhile, the parallel market for foreign
exchange, has continued to grow. This is clearly a policy area that will
continue to require the close and careful attention of the Government.
20.       The Public Sector Deficit.  Since Guyana's economy is influenced
predominantly by the public sector, the size of the public sector deficit
has serious implications for creditworthiness. The Government is cognizant
of the problem, but except for some limited retrenchment of labor in the
leading public corporations, an action that has bad only marginal results
in terms of e,rpenditures, as yet it has implemented no comprehensive
policies. The 1985 budget, however, proposes a number of policy
instruments to deal with the public sector deficit. They include:



- 6 -
(a) manpower reallocation - a reassessment of the roles of the
ministries, with a view to the deployment of personnel from the capital
city to the regional centers where they might be employed more
productively. It is hoped that the normal attrition of labor resulting
from the exercise will lead to a reduction in the total expenditures for
labor, while productivity will increase because of more intensive use of
personnel;
(b) improved revenue collection system - to be achieved particularly
through ensuring compliance with existing laws. An IMF mission was
recently in Guyana to provide technical assistance in the area of budgeting
and fiscal systems;
(c) the re-organization of public corporations - the objective is to
improve productive efficiency. The Government intends to limit financial
transfers to those corporations whose performance does not improve; and
(d) restructuring of domestic debt - the intention is to roll-over
existing Central Government domestic debts that are due and to restructure
their maturity characteristics to more favorable terms.
On all the above proposed instruments, the specific policy tools and
associated timing have yet to be determined. Even if implemented, it is
doubtful that the overall public sector deficit will be significantly
reduced in the short term. In the long term, if these proposals are
properly and completely implemented, they should contribute to an
improvement in public sector finances.
21.       Price Liberalization and Incomes Policy.  Apart from the pricing
policies with respect to electricity, petroleum products and rice initiated
under the structural adjustment program (1981-83), no comprehensive pricing
approach has been adopted except those proposed in the 1985 Budget. The
Government is cognizant of the distortionary effects of administered prices
and during 1984 relaxed a number of controls on prices, in particular those
on sugar and alcoholic beverages. The Government plans to periodically
review the remaining items on the price control list and to employ the
price mechanism to determine the "desirable' allocation of resources by
using it as an instrument to discourage consumption, to change consumption
patterns, and to raise the efficiency of utilization. As an adjunct to
this policy approach, the Government proposes to abolish all "ineffectual"
subsidies as a means of discouraging the expansion of the parallel market.
While the proposed elimination of subsidies is in the right direction, the
continuing existence of administrative controls on the pricing of these
items may render the whole policy instrument ineffective.
22.       Guyana has had no incomes policy in the past.  Previous wage
changes have been ad hoc with a concomitant adverse effect on public sector
finances. The 1985 budget proposes two approaches to this issue:
(a) the establishment of a standing committee, with trade union
representation, to review the levels and distribution of public sector
incomes. It is proposed that appropriate adjustments will be made from
time to time on the basis of these reviews; and



(b) the promotion of agricultural production on individual plots or
in group arrangements to supplement personal income. The proposed
incentives would include easier access to land, marketing and technical
support.
The latter policy requires a careful rethinking within the framework of
agricultural fragmentation and past experience in Guyana with the promotion
of the cooperative movement.
Public Sector Investment
23.       A striking feature of recent developments in Guyana has been the
high public investment relative to private investment. Since 1980, public
investment has constituted about 80% of Gross Domestic Investment in
Guyana. A review of the sectoral allocation of public sector investment
for 1978-84 indicates that: (a) investments in agriculture--mainly in
irrigation system-have accounted for about 40% of total public investment;
(b) the mining sector (especially bauxite, which was the main foreign
exchange earner) has seen a significant decline in investment; and
(c) industry has also seen a relative decline in public investment. While
the Government's investment priorities are consistent with its development
objectives, physical project implementation has been affected by major
manpower constraints that have impeded the completion of many projects on a
timely basis and led to considerable cost overruns. The rate of
implementation of ongoing public sector investment has also been affected
by the uncertainty surrounding external resource inflows. Thus, as was the
case in 1982-84, the level of actual public investment in 1985 is likely to
continue to decline.
Development Prospects and Creditworthiness
24.       In view of the severity of the economic crisis facing Guyana and
the magnitude of its disequilibrium, it may not be possible to sustain
growth without comprehensive policy changes supported by substantial
external assistance. The Government, over the past two years, has been in
the process of introducing policy reforms to improve economic performance
(see paras 18-23). The analysis conducted by a Bank mission to Guyana in
January 1985 concluded that there is a need for additional actions in the
following policy areas:
(a) Reducing the size of the public sector deficit through
expenditure controls at the Central Government level and improved
performance of the leading public corporations. The target siaould be to
reduce the Central Government current expenditures from 68Z of GDP in 1984
to about 57% in 1987 through rescheduling of domestic debt and limiting
expenditures on wages and salaries by rationalizing labor resources. The
finances of the Corporations could be improved through the elimination of
price distortions and improvements in the management of the enterprises.
(b) Increasing the competitiveness of Guyana's manufacturing sector.



- 8 -
(c) Reducing price distortions by limiting the number of commodities
subject to official price controls in the medium term. In the long term,
the objective should be the total elimination of price controls.
(d) Promoting exports, especially through the removal of obstacles to
private initiative and the provision of direct assistance to exporters of
non-traditional commodities. The review of the investment code with the
objective of eliminating the uncertainty with respect to the Government's
intentions relating to the private sector (both domestic and external)
should be urgently conducted. Direct assistance for exporters of
non-traditional commodities should include the earmarking of foreign
exchange, as soon as practicable, to restore the Export Development Fund
(established under the Structural Adjustment program) to normal levels of
operations.
If the Government undertakes the relevant policy adjustments and external
resources are made available on a timely basis, the economy should be able
to grow at 3-5Z p.a. in real terms during the next decade.
25.       The servicing of public external debt obligations has become an
increasing burden in Guyana in recent years. Guyana's medium- and
long-term external debt as of December 31, 1984, was US$683 million or 172%
of GNP. Since 1981, because of the worsening foreign exchange situation,
Guyana has been unable to service its external obligations. It is in
arrears on most of its external debt and in 1984, its debt service payments
amounted to US$31 million or 13% of exports, compared to scheduled payments
(excluding arrears) of US$88 million or 38% of exports. Guyana is thus not
creditworthy for non-concessional financing. The Government's solution to
the debt/arrears problem has included the payment, in kind, with shipments
of bauxite, deferral of principal payments due and agreement with a number
of non-OECD bilateral creditors for some limited rescheduling of bilateral
debt.
26.       The OECD bilateral creditors, of which the US, UK and Canada are
the main ones, which were approached by the Government to reschedule debts,
indicated a requirement for a meeting of the Paris Club which can only take
place after an agreement on a new LIF program. Such a program has not been
possible because of Guyana's overdue payments to the IMF. Guyana was
declared ineligible for IMF resources in May 15, 1985 although the IMF
staff will continue to provide technical assistance to Guyana on request.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
27.       The first Bank loan made in 1961 to the then British Guyana for
agricultural credit was repaid in full. Since independence in 1966, Guyana
has received, net of cancellations, US$75.4 million in loans from the Bank
and US$36.9 million in credits from the IDA covering twenty development
projects and programs, including one credit in supplemental financing.
These include assistance in the highways, power, education, agriculture,
livestock, and petroleum sectors; a sea defense project; a structural
adjustment loan/credit; and two technical assistance projects. In
addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of US$3 million equivalent was



- 9 -
provided in 1979 for an import program. Supplemental financing in the
amount of US$8.8 million for the Upper Demerara Forestry project was
approved in March 1985 (Cr. 1555-GUA). There have been two IFC operations
in Guyana covering: a stove manufacturing project for which an investment
of US$2 million was made in 1979; and a forestry project in 1985 for which
an investment of US$1.7 million was recently approved.
28.       Earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana have been aimed at
strengthening both the physical and social infrastructure as well as
governmental institutions. The two Sea Defense projects (La. 559 and
Ln. 765) approved in 1968 and 1971 were designed to protect the coastal
agricultural lands and the country's administrative and population centres
from tidal inundation. The Highway Project (Cr. 301) was designed to
service the coastal agricultural areas, including technical assistance to
the Ministry of Works in the preparation of a national transport
development strategy. Similarly, the Power Project (Lu. 875) and
subsequent Technical Assistance for Power (La. 1906) were designed to
increase power generation, integrate the national power system through
frequency conversion and interconnection and provide training and
institutIonal improvements. There have also been projects in education
(Cr. 139 and Ln. 583) both aimed at infrastructure and institutional
development, and in agriculture and forestry (Cr. 221, Ln. 1016, and
Ln. 1623) directed at both expanding productive capacity and diversifying
agriculture. In response to balance of payment difficulties following
international economic crises, Bank Group assistance between 1978-81 were
directed at structural adjustment programs for which a program Loan
(1622)/Credit (853) and Structural Adjustment Loan (1948)/Credit (1098)
were prov.'ded.  A petroleum exploration promotion project (Credit 1208-GUA)
approved in November 1982 is currently under implementation.
29.       In general, the execution of earlier Bank Group operations (as
well as overall development projects) in Guyana has been slow. Shortage of
mAnagers and skilled technicians, institutional weaknesses, lack of
adequate project coordination and monitoring, and inadequate local currency
resources accounted for delays in project implementation. The Second
Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 1949-GUA) which complemented the
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit was almed at correcting some of the
institutional weaknesses although the overall outcome fell below
expectation. The Government is, however, in the process of reorganizing
the State Planning Secretariat, the main institution responsible for
project coordination and monitoring.
30.       Until the approval of Credit 1555-GUA (Supplemental financing of
the Upper Demerara Forestry Project - Ln. 1623-GUA) in an amount of US$8.8
million equivalent on March 7, 1985, there had been no Bank or IDA lending
to Guyana since FY82. This is partly a reflection of the rapid down-turn
of the Guyana economy since 1982 and its accompanying implications for
Guyana's creditworthiness for further Bank lending, and partly the result
of the Government's inability to reach agreement on an appropriate package
of policy measures that could be supported by the external donor community.
31.       In the meantime, Guyana's continuing economic difficulties and
resulting lack of foreign exchange have severely constrained the
Government's ability to finance needed inputs and other essential imports.



- 10 -
Of major and increasing concern also has been Guyana's rapidly
deteriorating ability to service its external debts which, if not
addressed, could reach unmanageable levels.
32.       The Bank has been working closely with the Government of Guyana,
the IMF and other concerned donor agencies in order to address the current
situation. In this context, the Bank's primary effort over the past
several months has been directed towards the identification and possible
support of critical areas and issues on the supply side which have the
potential for substantial export earnings and which, by enabling Guyana to
meet its external debt obligations, could enhance the chances for possible
subsequent agreement with the IMF on a stabilization program. The recently
approved Upper Demerara Forestry Project Supplemental provision (Credlt
1555-GUA) referred to above supported this objective. This initiative is
complemented by the proposed project.
33.       The proposed project would play a critical role in establishirg
the basis for further possible financial assistance for the complete
rehabilitation of the bauxite industry, which traditionally had accounted
for over 50X of foreign exchange merchandise export earnings and over 60%
of public sector employment. This possible operation could be considered,
along with other donors, for Bank financing on an enclave basis.
34.       Finally, the Bank stands ready to provide to the Government
technical assistance in order to help it implement the appropriate macro
and micro economic policy measures that are necessary to address the
current economic difficulties.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
35.       Bauxite is Guyana's major mining industry and its main industrial
activity. Previously the industry has provided over 50Z of Guyana's
merchandise exports and in 1980 accounted for 34X of GDP. Over the past
five years, the industry has experienced a prolonged sales decline and
large losses due to market difficulties associated with the general
recession in the industrial nations and the industry's s'Liding
competitiveness in the face of dramatically increased competition. The
industry is now at a critical point in terms of restructuring itself if it
is to re-establish its international competitiveness and economic and
financial viability.
Resource Base
36.       Bauxite reserves are widespread in Guyana in an inland belt which
roughly parallels the shoreline (Map IBRD 19120). The Linden and Kwakwani
proven reserves include 110 million tons and 35 million tons of recoverable
high grade commercial bauxite, respectively, which are sufficient for about
35 years of operations at the present rate in either location. Probable
reserves are in the order of another 150 million tons, some of which may
not be recoverable economically.



- 11 -
37.       The deposits differ from most other known bauxite orebodies in
two ways. First, the overburden is thick, at about 4 to 5 cubic meters per
ton; therefore, Guyana's bauxite would be too costly for metallurgical uses
if stripping were not required anyway to uncover more valuable refractory
bauxite. Metallurgical bauxite is, in a sense, a by-product of refractory
bauxite mining. Second, iron and silicon impurity levels are quite low;
this important characteristic makes Guyana bauxite (together with a few
orebodies in Suriname, Guinea, Brazil and China) suitable for use in the
refractory, abrasive and chemical markets, where tight chemical
specifications for these impurities have to be met. Because of the
stricter specifications, calcined bauxite is about four times as valuable
as metallurgical bauxite which is used in the production of aluminum.
Sector Organization and Management
38.       The two main bauxite operations, at Linden and Kwakwani, were
nationalized with compensation in July 1971 and in January 1975,
respectively. After some intermediary steps, a state owned company, the
Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd. (BIDCO), was formed in February
1976 to hold all the shares of the two entities. In October 1977, the two
entities were merged into a single operating company, Guyana Mining
Enterprise Ltd. (GUYMINE). Subsequently, BIDCO's activities were expanded
and now cover four operating subsidiaries, Guyconstruct (construction),
Guytrade (procurement), Guybulk (shipping) and GUYMINE (bauxite). BIDCO is
also currently responsible for marketing the products of GUYMINE. BIDCO
sells GUYMINE's products mostly through agents which provides basic sales
services to customers but not a full range of marketing or market
development functions. In 1984, BIDCO was placed under the direct
supervision of the Prime Minister. Before that the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources and the Ministry of Economic Planning and Finance shared
the responsibility for the bauxite industry. This simplification has been
beneficial.
39.       GUYMINE operates mines and plants in three locations namely
Linden, Berbice and Everton. The Linden operations, 100 km upstream on the
Demerara river, include three open cast mines producing about 3 million
tons of ore per year, a bauxite processing plant and support or ancillary
facilities, and an alui-na plant which has been closed since 1982 because
of unsustainably large operating losses. Given a large world oversupply of
alumina now and for the next few years, there appears to be no economic
justification for reopening the plant in the foreseeable future. GUYMINE
would carry out a study to determine the financial and economic viability
of the alumina plant. In the meantime, the Government has given assurances
in its Policy Statement (Annex VI) that it would refrain from re-starting
the plant without prior consultation with the Association. The Berbice
operations include three smaller open cast mines at Kwakwani, 220 km
upstream on the Berbice river, producing about 0.8 million tons of ore per
year which are barged downstream to a bauxite processing plant located in
Everton, a suburb of New Amsterdam on the river's estuary. The two bauxite
processing plants can produce up to 2 million tons of commercial products



- 12 -
per year. GUYMINE's headquarters are in Linden where most of the
management, financial and administrative staff are located.
40.       GUYMINE employs about 5,300 persons, 4,200 in Linden and 1,100 in
Berbice including Kwakwani and Everton. Management personnel constitutes
slightly less than 1,000, while there are approximately 1,200 clerical and
technical workers and about 3,100 laborers. A significant number of
employees is engaged in township and social infrastructure functions which
are, in essence, borne by the Company in the two enclave-type locations
(Linden and Kwakwani). The top and middle managers of the Company are
highly educated, well qualified technically, and motivated. Intensive
management training was initiated in 1984. Significant deficiencies are
still present at the first line supervision level and among some groups of
hourly employees; further management efforts to improve intra-company
communications and increase motivation at these levels are required.
Quantitatively, some further reductions in manpower appear to be feasible,
especially in clerical and low to middle management functions. Measures to
streamline GUYMINE's organization and hierarchical structure are contained
in the BIDCO/GUYMINE Action Plan (Annex VII) and are currently being
implemented.
Markets for Guyana's Bauxites
41.       While bauxite is primarily known as the main ore for the aluminum
industry which absorbs more than 90% of the worldwide bauxite production,
the specialty uses of calcined bauxite in the refractory, abrasive and
chemical industries are of much greater importance to GUYHINE which
presently supplies just over half of the world calcined bauxite. Such
specialty products yield much higher sales prices than metallurgical
bauxite does, are subject to different competitive pressures, and must be
sold to a variety of submarkets instead of being marketed as a generic
commodity. Calcined refractory bauxite accounted in 1984 for 72% of
GUYMINE's bauxite revenues, abrasive grade 5%, chemical grade 11%,
metallurgical grade 10% and miscellaneous 2%.
42.       High alumina refractory materials can be made from calcined
bauxite produced by GUYMINE or others and from various competing materials,
with significant possibilities of substitution. The steel industry
consumes approximately 70% to 80% of all such materials while the other
industries including the cement, glass, aluminum, copper and petroleum
industries, in that order, account for the rest. Therefore, the demand for
Guyana's main product is governed by (i) the worldwide steel production
level, (ii) the specific consumption of high alumina refractories per unit
of steel output, (iii) the market share of calcined bauxite among such
refractories, and (iv) the market share of GUYMINE's bauxite among the
calcined bauxite suppliers. Precise statistical data on the refractory
industry are not available; the best present estimates of relevant
information are shown in Table 1, Annex IV. Although the 1981-1983
recession accounted in part for the recent decline in refractory
consumption, calcined bauxite as a whole had independently lost a third of
its market share between 1975 and 1983 to substitute materials. During the
same period, GUYMINE's position deteriorated even more due to the loss of
market share to competitors.



- 13 -
43.       GUYMINE was until 1980 in a quasi monopolistic position for the
supply of refractory product to the main markets in Europe, North America
and Japan. During this period, GUYMINE enjoyed high prices for its
products and allocated quotas to its customers. In the process, GUYMINE
beceme less responsive to customers' needs. In 1978, other competitors
actively entered the market and captured a 20% share by 1980, causing both
volume losses and very rapid price erosion for Guyana's bauxite exports.
The Guyanese bauxite industry reacted slowly and is still in the process of
adapting to this new situation. In an effort to improve its sales
situation, GUYMINE has increased exports to Centrally Planned Economies
(CPEs). In 1984, about 10% of the sales were on a barter basis, for which
revenues, in local currency, are provided to GUYMINE by the Government.
44.       The medium- to long-term prospects are that the declining market
for GUYMINE's calcined bauxite may be reversed. Steel production is likely
to recover in 1985 to its 1980 level and to increase modestly, thereafter.
While consumption of refractory per unit of steel output is decreasing,
there is, however, for technological reasons an increasing demand for
higher quality refractory materials. Hence, calcined bauxite is likely to
regain its 1980 overall share of a larger market by 1990. However, the
outlook is less promising for other products in GU9MINE's present product
range which include lower grade calcined bauxite for other uses and dried
bauxite supplied for specialty chemical uses or for metallurgical
conversion to aluminum. Abrasive bauxites, used mostly in the metal
finishing industries, compete with other abrasives. Sales are assumed to
remain constant after an initial slow gain of market share during 1985-89
given: (i) stagnant demand; (ii) shrinking supply since Suriname, a major
supplier, discontinued production in late 1983; and (iii) improved
marketing efforts. The market for chemical bauxite, which is the raw
material used in the manufacture of alumns for water purification plants,
shows little growth prospects. Similarly, the outlook for metallurgical
bauxites is not good since the world markets for aluminum metal and
bauxite, the raw material, are depressed.
45.       The uses of GUIYiINE's bauxite products are highly fragmented and
the needs of the customers vary significantly from submarket to submarket.
In the past, customers have been served relatively poorly from very few
products which were the easiest to produce but frequently not the easiest
to use, partly because the former quasi-monopoly situation prompted little
innovation and partly because the separation of marketing functions
(provided by BIDCO) and production activities (provided by GUYMINE) had a
negative effect on the provision of customer services and the development
of new products and markets. As part of the industry's Action Plan, the
Government would cause BIDCO/GUYMINE to carry out a study to determine the
organizational changes that are necessary in order to improve the marketing
of GUYMINE's products. As an initial step in improving its marketing
strategy GUYMINE is now starting to gear itself to the development of new
products, and to the diversification and adaptation of old product lines to
customers' specific requirements. GUYMINE has already taken major steps in
this direction and is now starting to identify the market segments in which
the industry can survive and eventually return to profitability.



- 14 -
46.       The long term market prospects for Guyana's bauxite industry
depend mostly on GUYMINE's ability to compete in the calcined bauxite
market. There is a good possibility that the industry will be able to put
a new, high value product on the refractory market in the next two years
which would markedly strengthen its competitive position. From the
technical standpoint, GUYMINE has now developed at the laboratory stage a
new calcined bauxite product, which would compete for high technology
applications with expensive specialty aluminas. The successful production
would significantly improve GUYMINE's medium- to long-term economic
viability and financial prospects. The next stage in bringing this new
product to market would be to conduct (i) a detailed study of the potential
market, and (ii) pilot plant tests following the construction of a Product
Development Facility which will be provided for in the proposed project
(para. 66). Other product development efforts are also being considered,
but these are at a less advanced stage and few can be brought to fruition
in the absence of the product development facility mentioned above.
47.       The effectiveness of the industry's marketing strategy will also
be influenced by pricing and stockpiling policy decisions. BIDCO has been
considering for some time whether or not to abandon its present pricing
method which utilizes a basket of currencies. This has been a major source
of disadvantage vis-a-vis its main competitor, China, that is prepared to
price in the buyer's currency. As required under its action plan,
BIDCO/GUYMINE will study the benefits of pricing the industry's products in
major markets in the currency of the buyer. In addition, the Government
would cause BIDCO to carry out a study on the possibilities of establishing
small product stockpiles in its main markets (Europe, the United States and
possibly Japan) to improve the reliability of supply and increase
marketability to small customers and to implement the recommendations of
the above study as a matter of urgency.
Financial Performance and Recent Developments
48.       GUYMINE bauxite exports can be grouped into two major categories:
calcined products (refractory and abrasive bauxites), and dried products
(chemical and metallurgical bauxites). The calcined products account for
almost 80% of GUYMINE's sales, largely because unit prices for the calcined
products (US$147 per ton in 1984) are about four times higher than prices
for the dried products as shown in Table 2, Annex IV.
49.       Until 1980 GUYMINE was in a strong financial position and
earnings were acceptable. From 1981 to 1984, however, GUYMINE experienced
a sharp reversal in operating income when sales revenues declined from
US$172 million to US$103 million. Almost all of this decline was
attributable to a decrease in both the sales price and sales volume of
calcined bauxite reflecting both a severe recession in the world steel
market and production problems in GUDMINE.  During this period, GUYHINE had
total cash losses of US$121 million of which US$68 million was for
operating expenses and US$53 million was for financial charges. The
figures exclude US$6 million of non-bauxite related income. Cash losses
were most severe in 1982 and 1983 (see Table 3, Annex IV).



- 15 -
50.       Cash shortages in 1982 and 1983 resulted in capital investments
and repairs being reduced to a trickle, causing a rapid physical
deterioration of facilities which were already in poor condition at the
beginning of that period. Production capacity declined to the point that
by the end of 1983 the Company's ability to take advantage of improved
market circumstances was in doubt, and GUYMINE's reliability as a supplier
had become questionable. The crisis highlighted past management
deficiencies such as insensitivity to costs, excessive staffing, a
cumbersome organizational structure and low employee morale resulting from
several years' wage freeze.
51.       In 1984 GUYMINE's management took important initiatives in order
to turn around GUYMINE's operations. Cash operating losses were reduced to
US$4 million; staff was reduced by approximately 30%, the organization
simplified, and modest salary and wage increases linked to performance were
allowed. Very specific and detailed objectives were assigned at all
levels, management to laborer, and accepted by a workforce motivated by its
faith in a Chief Executive Officer coming from its ranks, the seriousness
of the Company's situation, the restored wage incentives and improved
internal communications. Making use of the somewhat increased cash
availability which resulted from improved sales, operations personnel
patched up critical equipment, and were able to increase total production
by 13% while reducing the cost of sales by nearly 12%. The importance of
good leadership, wage incentives and of organizational streamlining was
amply demonstrated by the improved performance in 1984.
52.       Financial data prepared by GUYMINE indicate that cash operating
costs in 1984 consisted of fuel (46%), labor (21%), maintenance (24%) and
supplies (9Z). But the information available from GUYMINE's accounts is
presently not suitably organized to provide a meaningful breakdown of
production costs between the various bauxite products.  The provision of
appropriate cost control systems, the rehabilitation of facilities, the
development of cost objectives, the training of both managers and workers,
savings in fuel costs, and the introduction of wage incentives are all
essential ingredients if GUYMINE is to continue to improve its cost
effectiveness and become more competitive. The development and
implementation of a modern cost control system must be given the first
priority equally with the purchase or reconditioning of equipment to
measure or monitor technical parameters critical to cost control.
Significant cost reductions are achievable and expected with appropriate
rehabilitation efforts and cost control programs. Further, the close
linkage of wage incentives with the achievement of cost objectives could
provide important cost savings as well as improving employee morale.
GUYMINE has already taken some initial steps to improve its cost control
system and the additional measures needed to further improve GUYMINE's
overall cost effectiveness would be financed under the proposed project.
53.       Improved cost accounting will also provide a basis for improving
the sector's net foreign exchange earnings. Accurate information is not
available regarding the split between foreign exchange and local sources
for operating and capital expenditures. GUIVNINE estimates indicate that
net foreign exchange generation by GUYMDNE was negative in 1983 but



- 16 -
improved to US$17 million in 1984 (including all debt charges). However,
the lack of accurate data not only prevents reliable estimates of the
economic benefits of the bauxite operation but also undermines efforts to
replace activities associated with foreign costs with those in local costs
which would help to increase net foreign exchange receipts. The situation
is further complicated because GUYMINE does not in practice receive all of
its sales revenues in the form of foreign funds since about 10% are barter
transactions for which GUYMINE is compensated with local funds from the
Government. With better information, efforts could be made to improve net
foreign exchange generation as well as designing a more satisfactory
foreign exchange allocation system. The Government would take all
necessary action to provide funds, and other resources necessary, to ensure
the continued operation of Guymine.
54.       Judgments regarding GUYMINE's long term viability must take into
account overall market factors such as reliability of supply, product
differentiation, market share and marketing strategy as well as estimates
of comparative costs. Because of GUYMINE's previous quasi-monopoly
position, little information has been collected in the past which permits
an informed judgment on how well GUYMINE can compete with its major
competitor which has one cost advantage in that it uses low-cost domestic
coal as its main energy source, whereas GUYMINE uses higher-cost imported
oil. With regard to product differentiation and marketing strategy, a
priori it is considered that GUYMINE can maintain a long run market share
and survive financially since most users of an important commodity such as
calcined bauxite would want to have some supply diversification and would
strongly resist again becoming dependent on a single supplier. Also,
GUYMINE's effort to more closely service its customers' technical needs is
essential for improving its competitiveness. Nevertheless, it must be
recognized that GUYMINE will almost certainly always be a higher cost
producer than some of its competitors and, thus, will always have to search
for ways to improve its products and reduce its costs in order to protect
its long run market situation. In this regard, in order to identify
savings in fuel cost, a study of alternative fuels is included in the
project (para. 64).
55.       During the period 1981-1984 GUYMINE required large amounts of new
funds to finance its cash losses (US$121 million excluding minor
non-bat xite income) and capital expenditures (US$19 million). The required
funds have been financed by equity contributions and sharp increases in the
overdraft at the Central Bank. A first equity contribution of US$55
million was made by the Government in 1982 followed by a second equity
contribution of USS48 million in 1984. The GUYMINE overdraft at the
Central Bank increased from US$15 million at year-end 1981 to USS81 million
as of December 31, 1985. The shift to short-term overdraft financing to
cover cash losses has had serious consequences for GUYMINE's financial
results since GUYMINE is charged 22% per year on its overdraft at the
Central Bank, and it is presently estimated that interest expense on the
overdraft alone will reach about 18% of GUYMINE's total sales revenues in
1985. As an initial step to putting GUYMINE on a sound financial basis the
Government provided an equity contribution of US$41 million in March 1986
to pay off half of the overdraft.



- 17 -
56.       Performance in the first half of 1985 indicates that the market
conditions of 1984 have persisted. Volumes have improved slightly for
calcined products and markedly for dried products and prices have remained
very close to the level of 1983 and 1984. As a result, 1985 revenues are
expected to be about 10 above those of 1984. As for costs, there is
strong upward cost pressure essentially because of the higher maintenance
costs of deteriorated equipment. However based on first half results of
large increases in dried products, GUYMINE can be expected to reduce unit
operating costs to well below 1984 levels. Consequently, GUYNINE is
expected to be able to achieve an improvement in its operating income which
will be close to break-even in 1985. Since GUYIMINE can expect little
foreign exchange assistance from the rest of the economy, the financing of
urgently needed imported capital expenditures and spare parts, needed for
GUYMINE to continue improving its performance, is critically dependent on
external assistance.
57.       According to latest estimates, GUYMINE is projected to earn
operating profits (before finance charges and depreciation) of US$3 million
in 1986, based on an improvement in efficiency and stringent cost control.
In 1987 and 1988 operating profits should further increase to US$5 million
and US$11 million, respectively. Such estimates are considered
conservative because they are based on prices remaining at 1983-85 levels.
This would imply a price decrease of 6-7Z per year in real terms based on
latest inflation estimates. From 1986-88 GUYMINE should be able to cover
finance charges and long term debt repayment but will require about US$26
million for capital expenditures. This would be covered by about US$4
million from the Government and US$22 million in new long-term loans from
several sources (including the proposed IDA credit--US$7 million (of which
Us$1.7 million is passed on as equity), suppliers credits-US$10 million,
and EEC funds-US$5 million). In addition, about US$28 million will be
encurred in interest charges on the overdraft in 1986 and 1987. The
Government has agreed to convert by project completion GUYMINE's overdraft
(including accrued interest) into equity or an appropriate combination of
equity and long-term debt. The above projections indicate the need for
careful monitoring and control of capital expenditures as well as for a
sound financial structure to be established. PrudEnt capital expenditure
plans together with a financial restructuring would therefore be key
elements of any subsequent Rehabilitation Program. As part of the
financial restructuring of GUYWINE, the Government has agreed to
(i) provide the additional local financing required by the Program in its
entirety in the form of common equity; and (ii) convert the 1984 issue of
8% preference shares into common equity as soon as practicable. The
Government has also recently converted 50X of GUYMINE's overdraft, as of
December 31, 1985, into equity. In addition, the Governmnnt would carry
out a study, on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, in order to determine the financial restructuring needs of
GUYMINE, and implement its recommendations on the basis of a time table to
be agreed with the Association.
58.       While financial and operational improvements since 1983 have been
impressive, GUYM4INE is in need of a comprehensive rehabilitation program to
re-establish its international competitiveness. Such a major program,
which is already well defined, would cost around US$90 million (in 1985
terms) and, providi'ng satisfactory progress is made, could be implemented



- 18 -
from late 1987 onwards with possible financial support from multilateral
agencies.
Bank Group's Role in the Bauxite Sector
59.       The Bank Group's initial involvement in Guyana's bauxite sector
took place in 1981 when a Mining Sector Review identified the need for
major improvements in the industry's management, operations and marketing.
This was followed-up in 1983 in discussions with BIDCO regarding possible
assistan:e under the Second Technical Assistance Program (Loan 1949-GUA)
during which the technical assistance needs of the industry were defined
and the Mining Sector Review was updated. An amount of USS500,000 was
provided under Loan 1949-GUA to finance a consultant team, US Steel
Engineers and Consultants, to assist in the preparation of a rehabilitation
'Master Plan' and to provide on-site support in mine and plant maintenance
and operation until mid-1984. In addition, Kaiser Aluminum Engineers,
hired directly by BIDCO, also prepared a diagnostic review of the industry
and a preliminary proposal for rehabilitation during the same period. The
reports prepared under the same two studies largely represent the initial
proposals for the Rehabilitation Program prepared by BIDCO/GUYNINE for
restoring the international competitiveness of Guyana's bauxite operations
over the next three to four years.
60.       In March 1985, BIDCO selected Reynolds Aluminum International
Services, Inc. (RAISI), recently redesignated Reynolds International
Incorporated (RII), to provide management support and other technical
services, including assistance in marketing and market research, to GUYMINE
for the period 1985-87 and to assist in finalizing and implementing the
bauxite industry's proposed Rehabilitation Program. RAISI staff have been
working with GUYMINE staff in Guyana in a productive and satisfactory
manner. The BIDCO/RAISI contract has been reviewed by the Association and
found to be satisfactory.
61.       The Bank Group's activities in the sector are being closely
coordinated with the activities of other agencies that are interested in
the sector. In mid-1984, the EEC approved a SYSMIN intervention for the
Guyana Bauxite Sector, in an amount of up to ECU 35 million, of which about
ECU 3 million were committed in late 1984 and at least ECU 5 million are
expected to be committed in 1986 for the purchase of emergency spare
parts. It is expected that the balance of funds remaining under the above
allocation would be available to co-finance a possible Rehabilitation
Program for the sector, as appropriate. In addition, the EIB has also
indicated its preparedness to provide around ECU 10 to 15 million towards a
rehabilitation program as may be agreed. The IDB has maintained close
interest in the developments in the sector even though it has, so far,
taken no position about its possible participation therein.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
62.       The proposed project represents the Association's initial
response to the Government of Guyana's request for assistance aimed at
rehabilitating Guyana's bauxite industry. It was identified by an IDA
mission that visited Guyana in November 1984. The proposed project was



- 19 -
prepared by BIDCO/GUYMINE with assistance from consultants, Reynolds
Aluminum International (RAISI) financed by the Government, and appraised in
April 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in November, 1985, and
concluded in March 1, 1986. The Guyana delegation was led by Mr. Bernard
A.I. Crawford, Chairman, Bauxite Industry Development Company. Since the
proposed project is essentially for the provision of technical assistance,
no separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared. Supplementary data
are contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives atnd Description
63.       The proposed project would provide a basis for assessing the
medium- to long-term financial and economic viability of the bauxite
industry and, as appropriate, assist in the preparation of a full scale
rehabilitation project.
64.       The proposed project would comprise the following four basic
components:
A.   A Product Development Program
The product development program would consist of: (i) a formal
market study to be conducted by BIDCO/GUYMINE and their
consultants (RAISI) for the proposed new product, covering, inter
alia, the issues of submarket, optimal product specifications,
pricing, volumes, substitution and competitive risk; and (ii) the
development of a pilot plant with a capacity of about 8 tons/day
of new refractory products.
B.   A Cost Control Program
The cost control program would include:  (i) the definition,
design, test, and full implementation of a modern cost control
system fully integrated with GUYMINE's accounting system;
(ii) control instrumentation and equipment to monitor product
flows and operating conditions at the Linder. and Everton bauxite
processing plants, in order to provide inputs to the cost control
system and permit operating optimization; and (iii) rehabilita-
tion of conveyor structures at the bauxite processing plants.
The present conveyor structures are damaged to the extent that
they are entirely inadequate in their present conditions for the
installation of relatively precise control equipment.
C.  Marketing and Technical Assistance
Marketing and technical assistance would be provided by BIDCO/
GUYMINE external consultants (RAISI) as follows: (i) market
research, intelligence, technical support and strategy
assistance, including the training of GUYMINE staff; (ii) market
development, including new applications of existing products and
new products; (iii) technical marketing support for the use of
RAISI's product evaluation facilities in the United States for
evaluating GUYMINE's products; (iv) assistance in the management



- 20 -
and organization of operations and maintenance in the Linden and
Berbice divisions, including the training of GUYMINE staff; and
(v) project preparation and project management.
D.   Alternative Fuel Study
The objective of the coal substitution study is to define the
costs and benefits of coal as a replacement for fuel oil
currently used in GUYMINE's operations and GUYMINE's own power
generating facilities. The study would examine coal sources and
logistics; coal handling, storage preparation and utilization
requirements; it would also identify specific points in GUTMINE
where coal can substitute for oil.
Project Costs and Financing
65.       Total project costs, including physical and price coutingencies
(US$1.43 million) are estimated at about US$8 million equivalent, excluding
taxes and duties, of which US$7 million is foreign exchange.
66.       The cost of the Product Development facility (US$1.1 million) has
been projected on the basis of flow sheets, equipment lists and preliminary
cost estimates and vendor quotations. The cost of the cost control system
(US$4.2 million) has been projected based on equipment specifications and
materials lists. However, because the new cost control system will need to
be integrated into the existing accounting system, it would have to be
procured as a single vendor item. A 20Z physical contingency has been
included for the pilot plant and cost control components. The cost of the
marketing and technical assistance will have a fixed component (US$1.2
million) and a variable component, as specified under the BIDCO/RAISI
agreement. The variable component comprises certain reimbursable costs and
contingent fees which are to be uetermined under the above BIDCO/RAISI
agreement on the basis of performance actually achieved in various areas
such as cost reduction and new product development. Accordingly,
assurances have been obtained that the Government would cause BIDCO/GUYMINE
to providS for the financing of such costs from their own resources.
67.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 6.6 million (US$7.0 million
equivalent) would finance 100X of the estimated fixed foreign exchange
costs, or 88Z of total project costs, net of duties and taxes. GUYMINE
would finance the cost of reimbursable expenses and contingencies related
to the RAISI technical assistance as well as local costs from equity
contributions made by the Government. The Government would pass on US$5.3
million equivalent to BIDCO for onlending to GUYMINE; the onlending terms
would be for a period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an
interest rate equivalent to the IBRD's lending rate prevailing at the tim
of credit approval. GUYMINE would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
balance of credit proceeds (about US$1.7 million equivalent) to finance
consultant's services would be passed on to BIDCO and made available to
GUYMINE in the form of equity. The execution of a subsidary loan agreement
between (i) the Borrower and BIDCO, and (ii) BIDCO and GUYKINE, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Also, the completion of all action
required, satisfactory to ths Association, to effect the capital



- 21 -
contributions to be made by the Government to BIDCO and by BIDCO to GUYMINE
will be a condition of credit effectiveaess.
Project Implementation and Scheduling
68.       The proposed project would be carried out under the general
supervision of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of GUXYINE.
To assist the CEO in the day-to-day implementation of the proposed project,
the Government would cause BIDCO/GUYMINE to establish a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to be responsible for coordinating and monitoring
implementation of the proposed project, with staffing, functions, and
responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association. The PIU would be
assisted by counterpart RAISI personnel as provided for in the BIDCO/RAISI
agreement.
69.       The seriousness of the situation confronting the Guyana bauxite
industry requires that implementation of the proposed project would need to
be expedited in order to avoid further and rapid deterioration of GUYMINE's
operations. The Implementation Schedule (Annex V) has been designed in
order to achieve this objective and efforts would be made to ensure that it
is closely adhered to. The extent to which the proposed project is
implemented on schedule would also largely depend on the timeliness with
which various decisions that are required to facilitate project
implementation are reached by the concerned parties. This would be
important since a number of major and far-reaching decisions that are
critical to assure the chances of GUYHINE's survival may be required. To
facilitate this process, the various measures envisaged under the
Government's Policy Statement (Annex VI) have been incorporated in an
Action Plan (Annex VII) for implementation by BIDCO/GUYMINE. Both the
Policy Statement and Action Plan have been reviewed by the Association and
found to be satisfactory. The Government would cause BIDCO/GUYMINE to
carry out in a manner and in accordance with a time-table, satisfactory to
the Association, the variouP actions specified in its Policy Statement and
Action Plan for the bauxite sector.
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       Of the proposed Credit amount of US$7 million equivalent, about
US$2.5 million will finance consultant services. Of the above amount, one
contract (RAISI) for US$1.2 million (in foreign exchange) has been
negotiated under IDA guidelines and because of the advanced state of
project preparation up to US$800,000 of this requires retroactive financing
covering services and equipment since April 1, 1985. The other three
contracts for consulting services will also be arranged under the
Association's Consultant Guidelines. The remaining US$4.5 million will
procure equipment and materials. Because the consultant to be engaged
under the TA component is to assist in finalizing the procurement
requirements, the current list is preliminary. However, it appears that
about ten packages exceeding US$100,000 and totalling about US$2.7 million
will be procured through international competitive bidding and about four
packages between US$100,000 and US$300,000 and totalling about US$600,000
will be procured through limited international bidding by inviting at least
four bidders from at least three countries. Many packages less than
US$100,000 and totalling about US$1.1 million will be procured through



- 22 -
international shopping by inviting bids from at least three suppliers. Two
packages for proprietary pilot plant equipment will be procured by direct
contract for a total of less than US$100,000 under direct procuTement,
satisfactory to the Association (see details in Annex VIII - Procurement/
Disbursement Summary). To facilitate disbursements a US$0.3 million
Special Account will be created. Disbursements under proposed Credit will
be fully documented, except for those eligible expenditures not exceeding
US$20,000 equivalent that will be made on the basis of statement of
expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for those expenditures will
be retained by the implementing agency for review by IDA, as required. All
procurement will be documented as required by respective Association
procedures and all packages exceeding US$200,000 will be pre-reviewed by
IDA. The project will be implemented over 18 months and disbursements are
expected to be completed by second quarter FY88.
Benefits and Risks
71.       The proposed project would contribute significantly towards the
strengthening of the bauxite industry's management and marketing
capabilities as well as provide a framework for assessing the potential
benefits to be derived from new product development and the institution of
new cost reduction measures. Preliminary estimates indicate that the
implementation of the bauxite industry's rehabilitation program is likely
to have high financial and economic rates of return and that GUYMINE should
be able to show profits from 1988 onwards. As a minimum, the survival of
Guyana's largest export industry should result in substantial benefits in
the form of increased foreign exchange earnings as well as in direct and
indirect employment.
72.       More specifically, the proposed project would result in a number
of immediate benefits. First, it would provide funds to finance urgently
needed external technical assistance to support on-going efforts by both
the management and staff of GUYMINE to improve operating efficiency and to
reduce costs. This is critical if the company is to continue to operate
over the next 12 to 18 months-while its future prospects are being
assessed. Second, it would enable GUYMINE, assisted by their consultant
(RAISI), to prepare in a timely manner, a detailed assessment of the long
term competitiveness and viability prospects for the industry's operations
which is important in order to determine the relative merits for proceeding
with a rehabilitation program, at a later stage. Third, the proposed
project would finance the initiation of a new product development program
and cost control system, both of which require a long lead time and also
represent critiLal elements of a subsequent rehabilitation program.
Fourth, it would foster improvements in the organizational structure and
marketing arrangements for the bauxite sector which are essential for
improving the industry's overall performance.
73.       The realization of the expected project benefits depends on
GUYMINE and BIDCO implementing the project in a timely and successful
manner. Work has already been initiated on both the new product
development program and the cost control system and there are gcod
prospects that any technical problems would be resolved without major
delays. Unexpected delays, and resulting cost overruns in the
implementation of the proposed project could also occur due to the relative



- 23 -
weakness of GUYMINE's management. However, this risk is expected to be
minimized in view of the external technical assistance to be provided and
the active role to be played by the PIU to be established.
74.       There is also a risk that GUYMINE's financial situation may
deteriorate to the extent that the company is forced into closure before
the benefits of the project are realized. Such a situation could arise
from a further disastrous collapse in market prices or bauxite sales. This
is considered unlikely. Furthermore, GUYHINE is taking positive steps to
assure its competitive position. Finally, there is a risk that while the
proposed project may establish sufficient justification for proceeding with
a rehabilitation program, implementation of such a program may fail to
materialize within a reasonable period because of the absence of
appropriate macro-economic policy measures to support the financing of the
program. However, this risk is expected to be minimized in view of the
strong policy commitment on the part of the Government to the restructuring
of the industry's operations (see para. 69 above). At present, prospects
are good that the rehabilitation program would be viable, given the
progress being made by GUYHINE's management in improving its operations,
and the strong emphasis being given to reducing costs through the cost
control program included in the proposed project. It is also expected that
the implementation of the Product Development Program together with the
proposed marketing arrangements and new strategy to be developed would
lessen the industry's exposure to market risks, especially if, as expected,
the new high alumina product to be developed is well received
commercially. GUYMINE is also actively strengthening its ties with
customers by expanding its marketing activities to include sales support,
technical back-up and improved product characteristics.
PART V - RECOMIENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
.Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
July 17, 1986



-24-                                        ANNEX I
e C.  I of  7
cuvA                                uafr   n  soul. (WIIGaLU AVIAGS) re
*auST                       cn lcUSn  icsTuIATh) a
Cam              c muD. tacos            uIbDl.t INCUS
IVOuI     197UL. gSUTSA .          LAT. AkdCA & CAB             bIROFI
AMA  (iTMOOAM p. m)
TOrAL                              213.0       213.G      2I13.0                .
ACItLITURAL                         13.         13. 7      27.2
W   QM CIMTa ()                         ..          ..       n2o.0             1675.9                    2144.3
a1_? wTiA  ram Cae
(KILOCRAIM OP OIL P4UIVALENT)      376.0       72.L0      693.0              993.9                    111.3
ioumaIo. Am VITAL uranmSns
6OPULATIUON.CD-TIAR (b43DS)        349.0      7(19.2      SOLO0
U33  POPULATUION Ct   TOTAL)        29.0        29.3        31.5              e7.J                     47.S
rOtiaTIOu Pf0IECTIONS
POPULATION in  YER 2000 CHLL)                              I.0
STAtONR  PILATToP CKILL)                                   1.4
POPULATTIO  flIENT                                        1.6
POPULATION 01StT1
P&I SQ. m.                         2.4         3.3         3.7              ah.u                     ea.?
PE  SQ. CM. ARI. hUI              42.0        31.7       46.4               91.1                    leb.W
roPULATIoN AGE sTUCTuKR tl)
0-14 naS                         46.4        ' 7         3.1               33.1                      31.2
13-I   IRS                        50.1       46LI        57.6               57.1                     e1.S
65 AND ABOVE                       3.2         3.4        3.9                6.2                       7.2
POPULATIO GR0W1 RATE (C)
TOTAL                              3.0 Ic      2.2 Ic     0.9 Ic             2.4                       1.e
uR34                               3.1         2.4       -0.2                3.4                      3.7
CIOIIID Utl IRAM (PEa T7OUS)        42.2        34.0        26.3              30.9                      23.4
CRUDE NEAS  RATE (On THOS)           9.7         7.7         1.8               3.0                      3.9
cGROSS RMOODCTIN RATE                3.2         2.4         1.6               2.0                       1.5
FAILY PLNNING
ACWTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (C Or "m   m   EN)           ..          ..          ..              4*.3
-OOs  mnTXia
NOEI OF FOOD PROD. ftR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       95.0        96.0       30.0              1u9.6                     W0.1
PER CAPlTA SUPP-L ro
CALORIEs CZ or RWUIRNEJNTS)      10&.0       101.0       118.0             113.2                     131.5
PROT lS (CaRns PER OAY)           37.0   55.0            30.0               b9.4                     92.4
OF WIIOI ANDIAL AND PULSE        A6.0        30.0        26.0 /I           34.2                      3465
otLD (CAES 1-4) DEATS RAtT          5.6         3.d         1.0               4.b                       4.7
WmAA
LIFE  lPECT. AT Utan  (TEARS)       W9.9        63.3        bd.5              64.8                      e7.2
WNFANT MORT. RATE (PEa Tous)        68.0        56.5       35.8               59.7                     53.3
ACCESS To SArE iaAER (POP)
TOarAL                             ..         7O          7LO 2-0             .3                      7u.2
URBA                               ..        100.0       10. 7W             76.5                     69.4
RURAL                              *-         63.0       bo.o 7             44.2                      57.U
ACCESS TO EICXCTA DISPOSAL
(I or PoPULATIlO)
TOTAL                               .         93.0        36.0 /a          53.3                       5Y.6
URBAN                              ..         95.0       1.0 0 77           73.4                     65.9
RURAL                              ..         92.0        30.0 7.           25.3                      47.b
POPlULATIO  PER PCSMICI           3920.0      '230.0     9270.0 /f          1909.7                    1070.6
POP. PER IU1IC PERSON             1730.0 A   6330.0        740.0 7f          80J.2                     769.5
POP. PIE HOSPITAL ED
TOTAL                            1*0.0       210.0       200.0 /0          362.0                     313.3
1RBA                              60.0 It   110.0        130.0 7h          422.0                     201.S
RURAL                           1330.0 7W   1420.0       920.0 7r         2716.7                    '519.7
AInISSIuNS PER HOSPITAL 3ED          ..         37.3         ..               27.3                      20.0
Cmat
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEHLO
TOTAL                              S.0         5.4
URBAN                              *.          ...
RURAL                              3.1         ..
AVERAGE YD. OF PERSONS/ROOV
TOTAL                              2.1         2.1
URBAN                              1.7         ..
RURL                               2.1         ..
PERCENARG or owDLLSGS WITi ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBA                               ..          ...
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 25-                                            Pg. 2 of 7
GANA                   - SOCIAL 1IDT   OAT 3NrT
GYANA                                3crre euns (wITZD AVERAMS) /a
MuST                     C ST "cm  'STI4ATh) /b
UCKqT            iHIDL  IC               IODLF zuMi
nn!bsLf   ts7uLb ZsrT      lb       LAr. AI.itICA  &CAt          EURUPS
ADJUSTED K.NOLZit  RATIOS
PtDqAM:  TOTAL                   107.0        99.0        96.0             1.0.7                     1018.
.mAL                   107.0      IOl."        96.0              106.5                     IU .Z
FqALZ                  106.0       96.0        95.0              14                        97.5
sCONDAIt: a OTAL                  33.0        50.0        57.0              44.2                      S7.
HALE                    36.0       5b.0        55.0               *L7                       WY.9
FrMALC                 30.0        50.0        59.0              4.9                       Su.u
VOCATIONAL (I Or SCNDAE)            13.7         5.1         ..                Ls3                      21.U
IPIL-TZACUU RATIO
lPIAX                            41.0        29.U        33.0 I.           29.9                      25.1
SEWUMDARY                         32.0        20.0         ..                16.7                     19.1
PASSINCgR CAB/OUSAND POP            17.2        25.5        36.5 /d           46.0                     5.Z
RUDIO 4CEITERS/71ROUSAD POP         65.0       112.6       407.3       .     326.3                     t7O.7
TV   CVRS/ToUS        O              ..          ..          .. r12.4                                  149.3
XMrM ("AouLT camNAL
ZT'AFST) cItOLArTON
PR TllOUSAND POPUATIOU            6".3         62.I        S5.0 /f           e1. 1                     9J.u
CDIA AKYAL ArTIUMIcEAPITA            7.7        12.3        16.7               2.4                       2.7
COTAL  UER PoRCE (TWAIS)           175.0       204.0       276.0
rcMAL  (CENT)                     22.0        23.8        25.9              23.0                      36.3
AGICULCR (NPCIGHT)                37.0        33.0        34.0 J/            31.4                     40.s
lllOtS   CNEWT)                   28.7        42.0        45.0 72 2 .3                                23.3
ART=IC1ATION BATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                             30.8        28.5        34.6               33.5                     43.1
KALE                              47.5        "4.1        50.5              51.3                      55.1
PFALS                             13.9        13.6        17.5               15.9                     31.-
ECOHOC DUCENUKC  Ratw                1.          1.5         1.2               1.3                       0.9
ll3l=  DWISf11fI011
PLeRZT o  PIUVATE INCQ
glDCED a
HIGHS? 5S uV wOUSm0OLUS           1....
RICHu  20m Or EOUUKOS             46.5  -      ..          ...
LaOS? 20C OF MOSEtOLDS             4.3         ..
LoUSr  40z OP  _OUSEHoLDS         14.06
S-        -D ASOXXZ IPOWf UINCE
LWEL CUSS NR CAPITA)
URB                                ..          ..          ..              236.3
EA                                 ..          ..          ..              185.3
ESTDIATED IJlTIVE POMRT INCN
LEVL CUSS  IM CAPITA)
URIBA                              ..          ..        171.0 Id          519..
RURAL                              ..          ..        171.to            359.7
ESTDIATE PM.  UW  AISOLur
PoVRTry IrC=  LLV   (2)
URIAN
RURAL                              ..
MT AVAILABLE
MOT AIPFLICAE.EE
11 0 t S S
/a  tb- grasp awarasa for each irdicator are populatio_m-1 tad aritlmtic _a  CWD-np of caictris
Mog cbs i.icator. depeds on eval lity of data   d Is net udf0r
lb   Unlass otbeawla uoted. "Dat for 1960"r refer to aey year bea*m      1959 ad 1901;  ta& for 1970" bemmen
1969 ad  1971; mid data for "cet RCent  atisate"  eaWmen 1961 aad 1983.
Ic   Due to emigration poulaeton grgitb rate is lpsr tha  rate of atural inecrase:  Id 1977; Ia 19d0;
If 1979; /L 1963;  h 1976;  hi 1964; /  1955-56. ecluding  elf-e loped in the igh icee_ brckt.
UU91. 1955



ANNEX I
-26 -                                        Pg. 3 of 7
DEFINMItONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nutes. Although the dta are drawn from sources generfl, judged the most authontase and reliable. it should also be noted that they may not be uncernutmonilly
comparable because of the Ilac of standardized definitions and concepts used by dsfferent counrmes in collecting Ihe data The dat are, nonetheless. u *fl to
dscribe orders of mgnstude. indicate trends, and characterie certain major differences between ountnes.
The reference groups are iI tihe same countr group of the subject countrb and t', a country group with somewhat hagher dverage twome than the Lounin
*  group ofhe subject country (except for -Hgh Income Oil EsponesV group where -Mddle Income.Norh Afrca And Middle Entischosen because o.tronyer
socto-cultural altnitnesl In the rcfercn.e group data the ateragcs are population weighted arthmetic means for each indicator and shown *only hen mapnrity
af theounuriti in a group ha'data for tOat indicator Sante thetcoserage of cumnries among the indicatoideplends on the aailabili ofdjta and ii n't unmtorm
crauLon must be %ecrcised in rdating acrages otl one !ndicdwr to antbher These .ierages are onlk useful in comparing the %alue of one indc.itorat a time jnionra
the countr, and relerente groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.I                                             Crnde Birt Rate (per ehousmnd-Number of live births tn the cear
Toni-Total surface area comprising land area and intand waters:    per thousand of mid-year populatton: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cruk Deart Rate (per rhonsandj--Number of deaths in the ycar
Agriculual-<lEstimatc of agricultural area used temporarilv or     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dalta
permanntly for crops. pasturcs. market and kitchen gardens or to   Goss Re            Rae--Average number of daughters a woman
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproductive peniod if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually liv-year atcrages endtng
GNP PER CAPITA (UJSS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market price  caklulated by came conversion method as World        Awtly Planniag-Aceprors. Anmal (thousandui-Annual num-
Bank A4 tlas (1981-83 basisl: 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSLMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercal primarv energy (coal and lignite.         FSy Planiit-Users (percent of married asse) --The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and gcothermal clec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricitv) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception Wonmen
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
somnc countries contraceptive usage is mcasured for tither age
POPULATION AND VITAL SMTTISTICS                                    groups.
Total Population. .Iid-Yew (thousandni-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Index ofFood Pradtnio Per Capite rf969-71 = 10() - Index of per
Urba  Population (percent of total) --Ratio of urban to total     capita annual production of all food commodities- Production
popblatton: different definitions 9f urban areas may affect conpar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counztes. 3960. 3970. and *983 data.         includc primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supnr
Popultion Projiecions                                              which are edible and contain nutrients e.g. coffee and tca are
Population in sear  xxZ)- - The projection of population for 2000.  excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
madc for cach cconom% seraratelt  Swtring -with information on     vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beet., livestock. and
total p. pulation by age and ses. fernlmtt rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production *tf each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. ihese parameters    on national average producer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at tirve-ear intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Anr cata Supply ofCaoies c   perent ofrefareentsi-- Comput-
Stanrnacr popularcan  Is one in which age- and sen-specific mor-   ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taLity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capit per day. Available supplies comprise domestic pr.duc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tton. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
mnet reproduction rate = I . In such a population. the hirth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds ror use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Reqwrement,  ere
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationarn population   estimated bv FAO based on physiological needs for normal actititr
stze was estimated on the htsis of the projected charicienstics of  and hcalth considering environmental iemperature. body weights.
the population an the year 2000). and the rate of decline of fetiliht  agc and sex distribution of population. and allowing It percent fovr
rate to replacement leel                                          waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population .tlenrin-- Is the tendency for population grovw th to   Per Capita SWply of Protein (gras per day --- Proticn content ol
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per dav. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requtrements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum ofa population in the year t is measured as    protide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. ofv which 1 1t grams
the vcar r. given the assumption that fertili  remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein a' an
Ppultin Deni ry                                                    average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World I-ood
Per sq.krn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1963. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Cita Protein Supply   From A4mmal and Puls-Protnt  upply
Per sq.km. agriulrural land--Computed as abovc for agricultural    offood derived from animalsand pulscs in grami  perday: 3-6h;-65
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1912 data.                              1970 and 3977 data
Pbopation Age Stmrture qperrentj-Children (0- 14 learss. work-     Child raes 1-4) Death Rate (per rhousandp--Number of death' of
ing age ( I 5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same ate
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. Fir most developing countries data derived
firom life tables: 1Q60. 1970 and 19113 data.
Popuation Growth Rate (percensi-sotal- Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percentr)-urhar- Annual growth rates       Life Expecrtay at Birth (yersi--N umber of ycars a newborn
of urban population for 1950-O. lQ6I)-70. and 19711X-2( data.      infant would live if prc6ailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX L
-  27 -Pg. 4                                          7
at tU  im  of of in birth we  to wty te Ual  throughout its life;  Rwm.eA   Ratio - plbry. mod aeccadp-Totul studentseo n
1946. 1970 ad 19113 data.                                     roild In primary and seodary  ve. divdd by numb    of
howMWvp  am (per ,{)- Number of infants who die                tdku In the corepoodig levels.
before mcing oae yar of ag pr thousad live births in a mave
year 1960.1970 nd 1963 dCONU                                               ION
Ac    ueS* t  SO nWr (iuw   V          J    an         M      &mqe  Car (pe  hmd ecan corn-
WSP-Nur ofpeopl (Al u Nd rurl) wio reaabl                      p    mor car seating  ssth  eight peons; exclud  ambtdi.
-iss to sf war supply  mlWin tated sarfe wae  or               eae  hias  and muliMy vicles.
unheated but UmmWaUIIUaUI warn  dich us that train ~prateeed   Rub Rai_Js (pe thn_us -papeuedJ-All types ot  ivern
borsbohe. spg and sntay wal) a percentages of thr rop.-        tor radio bradca   to geeral public per thousnd of population;
tv popultons in an urban am  a pubWic fountain or -undpt       exdudes un-icnsd reive  in countri  and in yar when
locted not mo  thnn 200 mnstra fmo a hom  may be consudd        ndion of radio nU was in ede; data for rmt  yean may
a beg witho reasomable         of that hams In rural area      m-r                                abotihd      i
reasonable xm vouid imply that th  ouwwtfe or membin o thecrrwb  (pe imkim u coursi                   rnen a aheod broadsasg
housMold do n  have t spend a diproportionate pan ot the day   rvtopealpu    p   hm   popu_a_-W , _cluders unliobad ct
Ain t     Ethe fam ply' w atrm nt of ds.n es in countus and in yas when ritaion of TV se was
Mod _ura-Number of peopie (totaL urban, and rusl) srved by         icL
comt  dipoul as peag    of their rpeve populutions.            '          C    i  (per tlelJ-Sbows the aw-
Exeta dspos        include the coection and disposal wit or    'p citki  of odaty gmen  mUs new5pet defined as a
without tratment, of human exacrt and waste-water by water     piodl pdan  devo    primarily to nowii pnea  ws.
bone sysem or the um  of pit privies and simiar inslation      It is cosdd0  to be daily if it appas at lm rour *im  a wek.
hpwIem per PApAimn-4bpulation divided by number of prac-       CLnm  Aa_   A_endaime per CapiG_ pw YewA-Darnd on the
teing physicians qualii ftrom a medical school at uniesity level  number of icket sold during the year. including admison to
Al    I Ipwr N_msq Pbsom-44pulation divided by number of       drive-in cnema and mobilde uitL
pracicng mak and female grduate nurse, asstant nurne.
practc  nurs  and nursing auxili.                              LA       FORCE
Apus I   pa j.r HeepAl kd-ma    wha. _d mai-Populauon           .mE Lehw Fhe  fthnnankr--Econouncally active perons in-
(total, urban and rural) dividd by their re     number of      duding armed forcs and unempoyed but edauding housives.
bospital beds avalabk in pubic and private. gliaW and smd-liaed  students. etc.. covering population of all as. Denitions in
hospital bed   bailahetion  centd Hospia ls  an espabie        vnowus countries am not compable; 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
permanently sffed by at lt one physician  sb         prov-     F h (Ps -emak laor fm fa  peenta     totl labor
iding prinpay custodil car are not included. Rural hospitls.    ore
bowever include heldth and medic centers not pemanendy staffed  AVdaur (pwcw)-Labor forc in frmin  foeesry. hunting
by a physcan (but by a medical aistant, nune, midwife ec)      and fishing a pernt   of total labor forno  1960 1970 and 1910
whih offer in-pati  accomiodation and provide a limited range  dataL
of medica faciities.                                          ladeAry (pocw J-Labor force in mining. consuctm  mmnu-
Advdie ar p      YHpa An-Toral number of admisons to or        ractring and eectncity. water and ps a prcentae of total labor
discharge frm bositals divided by the number of beds.         force; 1960. 1970 and 19R0 data.
Jridped. Rar (prrcet-l,   ue, J. idfh-*trcpation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rte are computed as totl, ma% and ralk lbor forc
Avra  SiWe o Hsetio (pqn  pgr AouseWdJ_e-4oral, what,          as pametag  of total male and fele population of all aM
mdnrg_--A household consists of a group of individuals who shae  respe;tivey 1960, 1970. and 1983 dau  The  wae bued on ILOs
living quuters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation ratesreflectinage-  structureofthe population. and
may not be induded in the housebold for statistical puwoses.  long tm  trend. A few emtes are from national sou
Aftre NaweMr o Ple.r pr  R            ,is-tt   wrhm. wed rwra-  Ecoaodc Dependrncy Rarl-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persn  per room in all urba  and rural       65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-4).
occupied conventional dwellings, respecively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent strucrs and unoccupied parts.                    INCOME DISTRI3UIION
Percewvq of DwEgs **t Eieridty-u.rai, when and rval-          Pecener V Tod Dpmlr lcen (hwe iw casli ad kimd)-
Conventional dwllings with edcricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of bousholds ranked by total bouse-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A&Wad E&a rem Rids                                             The folowing esmates are very approximate measures of poverty
mxwy sdwool - total. maka aNd feaGnr_  total. male and         levels. and should be interpreted with considable caution.
remale enrollment ofail ages at the prmary level as percentgesn of  EsdedAhskue  Pten x Ibc    Leve fU Spr ceqita) -
rspective pimary school-ag populaionu  Wbile my countrui      iand r -Absolute poverty income level is that income level
conider primary school age to be 6-Il Iy     othe  do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of shool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
ar reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with unversal  Esuiurwd Relti  herupy Icomw Levl (fUSS per capm)--erhm
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 perent since some   ad rural-Rural relative poverty income klev  is one-tbird of
pupils are bdewl  or above the country's standard primary-school  averge per capita personal income of the country. Urban lvel is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary sdhod - totl makl amdfemak-Computed as above         living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at leat four years of approved pri-  Eu_ceed Pps uer  Bew Ahsib   Pobrty In=w Lewe (fpr-
ntiry instrucuon; provides  neral, vocational, or teacher traning  CTd rua- Pernt of popuation (urban and rura
instructions for pupils usamlly of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor."
ence courses are gnerally excuded.
Vocasioalr En meni (percent of secondaryj-Vocational institu-            Compartive Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technicaL industiaL or other programs which opere         Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Pg. 5 of 7
amf - wioic  msr DM
Ah       Anml    As P        - i aUP
13   at 1977 I    llJa             Ckutb 1im          uzmut mdm 
SM 15OL IlqG    M    191B]94 1!WM A  l e -g w
QXum          Pnk Bix:&                    43Z    39B    325       32      216        -1I.7         IW      10)    IW
of          -Ef-e   -47                                          -4     -a5            ..           ..       .. .
Qmn Dma3dr                      416    3D      278      253     221        -11.9.
Ream   Gap                                  42    -%       4)       5) 3O              -6.5          11      17      11>
IN  -;(a)                                313    256    1)         6      129        -16.2         8D       72      *
0MLty tD lUt                             271   L19S    13D       114      99        -W12.                     .       .
El it(QGM                                  2f1    246    177       13      14         -15.5          (       5$     S5
Td  e1sftuz                                467    4)0    318       333     251        -11.3         110     117      116
03=Mdm                                     336    29)    244       22      206         -9.3          78      90      93
1amut                                      121    118      74      75       45        -17.9         31       27      23
1k.c    d                                   OD     &0)   Y3         25      15        -2&5           19       9       7
tNau1S.drp                                  47     21       1       6        7        -3.7           12      -2       4
VALE AR) BNY MLR
Aza naz, FxeP zy & Fit                      84      78     72       64      52         -9.1          23      23       25
Mxdg &qmiy%                                 55     44  ZB           22      25        -14.6          17       7       5
and na     S Pm                             52     0)      41       33                - 129          12      14       13
'-*--t-<l                                   27     25      21       m       16          9.9           7       b       7
Sezvi                                      171    15S    133       127     101        -10W          41       16      5D
UP atFa     Ozt                            3LO    352    29        ;b      Zl)        -10.7         IOD     IID    1C
EELC SO=  FDOM                                            WS U  i II-       -
02e    aen   CtdGtRIvt)                    177    198  I& 3 18             157                       3J              35
at3  LNm rz   (03,1  (brt)                 Ni1    2%      255      Y9      3D3                       41      53      ff
GAL-r    S /        t (chtmL (bi't)       -64    -        -73    -110    -146                      -11      -15     -33
Oxiu         5 S /      (Ril Secw)         13   -035    -        -129    -171                       2      -AD     -3
(C,Lt1. iawtille (Rbic  Btw)              148    16B    133       123    1C9                        25      2B      25
REIC 9x:    D&SIMI Ram                            AS 1B     t c taE o
ftlaltze. Forastry &   Elsbft               33     3       47      41       41
lrsZx                                       1s     14       8       5        7
rit  &Qmrg                                 14      5       4       -        4
EbPr                                         8      5       9       2        3
Mmspar and Gkmr 4tltc                      1U      2       17       1L      12
otr                                         16      17     15       41      33
xmur 1Hm Ixii (19776-4D)                     1.5     1.D3  2.167   2.43b   3.057
AI g  ate (tlSSl                             2.550  2.813  3OM0    3.0W    3.82b
Jnuay/Fekwry 1%6



ANNEX I
-29 -                                             Pg. 6 of 7
UATM  - SILCIE OF PATuSI
PreI.
1974     1975     1M      1977   197      10 7       4 100  Sul    1302    1113         104
bafreber brlbme                   2.7    377.2   204.4  271-.   313.6   311.0   41*1-  373.3              4.0   225.0   230.5
Ur eaulad  Epartr                  170.2   364.3   279.0  250.3   2S S    232.5   31.0    344.4   142.2    13.3   201.2
COgr)                         (1227.0)  (175.4)  (101.5)  02.0)  432.0)   M3.)  M21.)  410.9)  (07.7)   (U-S)   (3.)
t(muuite)                      (10.1)  4122.6)  C113.2) (123.9) (130.3)  (n2.4)  (118.0)  4152.71  (104.4)   (73.3)  (90.4)
Coles)                          (22.0)   (36.0)   (23.93  (26.2)  437.)   C31.71   (34.)   (3.1)   (32.2)   21.7)  (20.31
(Other)                        00.7)   (0.4)   05.4)  (30.4)  435.6)   (42.0)  (44.0)   43.1)  (29.1)  (2.0)   31.1)
Itreartrr Servmes                   224       13.3   S1    1n.         3.1     WA       13.5    20.3    212a       31.7    23.3
Imprts *of Gods mod
efUeetar Sw,,Ie                  -04.-5   -377.7  -4054  -47.5  -313.7   -60.10  -W4,A          14.3   -45.7  -424.3   -01.1
wrebmadle. Import                -254.4  -364.1   363.7  -315.4  -2.3  -317.7  -3U0.0  -433.   -2.4  -241.3  -22.2
(Commonr)                      E47.S1   tSS.25 1 (-6430)      l 6.t1-SIA4 )  (t-7T)  (.SA)  (-4.0)  (43.0)  (-25.0)  (-14.)
(S.t.rmdlata)                 (40.1) (-117.5) C-122A4) (-.2) I-91.5) (-110.4) (-126.0) I-IS3.0)  (-465.)  (-76.)  4-68.0)
(CapItal)                     (405.7) 4-112.A) -11.1) (0-U.0) (-40.2)  (57.2)  (-76.0),  -77.0)          3   (0.0)  (-31.6)
(Ful & Lubricans.)            1-46.2)  (-57.2)  (-3.3) (462.)1  44.7)  (-00.3) (-141 .0) t-143.0)  -101-.0)  *-tA) (-101.1)
(*"ml.glaevea                  4-1.5)   (-1.0)   C-3.5)  (-3.4)  (-2.0)   (-2.0)   (-3.0)   (-3.0)   (-2.6)   (-2.0)   (-1.3)
Neaf atgr bruIse                   -3o.1    -53.f   -41.7  -32e0  -34.3   -42.3   -74.    -44.1   -5S.3   -70.0   -76.3
beurn. blale.                        8.3    -0.1  -110.I O    4J 1    -0.1   -4O.0    4U20   -111.0    41.7    -n1.3   -70.6
Faster Orvlees (ot)                -22J    -14.0   -23.1  -26.3   25.3    -0.2    -4.2    -51.1   -43.4    -.233    .20.2
I are*t so bNIel _md
Le" Term Debt                 (-0.7)   (10.3)  (-13.1) (-IS.2  (-17.3)  4-5.2)  (-26.7)  (-6.1)  (-24.1)  (-24.1)  (-.1.2)
Ober (set)                    (-13.4)   -3.7)   (-4.1D  (-1l.1)  (-.0)    -5.01  (-14.5)  (2.0)  (-10.3)   (4.2    (-4.0)
Coret Tr_afers (met)                -3.5    -3.0    -6.1    -3J    -6.5         0.3    -6.0       0.2    -0.2       0.7      4.7
Current Acssat blame.              -17.S   -1.0  -140.J  -0.0  -31.7   -73.0  -100.2  -16t.U  -133.3  -12-.    U-6.1
PubFlI CapItalt I t)                23.7    U6.2    56.0   30.5   27.3    31.6    S2.2   124.0    544              25.0     11.7
Ore"r Dlaburaaete               35.0t)   (4.7)   (70.0)  (47.2)  5.6    (7.7)   (05.0)  (167.0)   (7.4)   (4a.1)  (26.5)
_*a tlaail                     (-5.3)   (C-5)  (-13.1) C-16.7) (-32.3)  4C6.1)  (-42.0)  (43.01) (-23.0)  (-21.1)  (-14.5)
Otibr Capital (no) %'                15.3   -31.0    -CJ    3.6 C      4.0     -6.5   -41.0    -7.3   -145    45.5    -G.1
Capital Accoit bIamc                46.0      57.2    50.2   63.1    10.3    25.1        11.2   101.7    3.9   -0.5    -56.4
Overall bsloon                     -25.0      23.5     33.2  -90.7  -12.4   -5.3    46.0   -42.2   43.5   -141.5  -142.5
Chenge In ComreralI Arrears 6/
(Inerease - *)                                                    22.2      5.2     17.0    91.0   113.1    201.1   174.0
Ceg"se. Ila nt Ibarwac O/
( Imrs "  - -)                 -2.5    -0.2        00.7   23.7 -    .      40.6     "1.0   -2.8   -13.5   -12.5
of beIuetl; latedt. direct Iuees_mt. private 1pital. _erFteru espitel. err           * ena
amleelems. SU  mlleatlam debt ruflosamlWdeefrment Bad other.
w  Imeludem buk er Suyevu arrears wi   frl mra  ter_ay*e_t of IWeret am blitarel
depelte and CJlF hbalancs  In arrearo.
gJ Dcer rMt melub bet @t Of rya   lIabilItIes - aceaumt to urrears aod hepse InIMF polUBtl.
eussse St tletltal sureeu. bat *tof Suy". 1W. als ln _mtleletam.
Jasiry/February 1S35



- 30 -ANN  I
Pg. 7 of 7
;WNYA - Eixlermal  mdiua and la-U-Term PubUc Debt and Selected Debt IUi.ctr
(US$S illoos)
End of Year                  1975   197b   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
(A) External Public Uebt (Ebd of Year) - UIS  uilUia
Total Uebt (lcd. uzdisbursed)    405.1  460.8  484.0  656.9  731.2  77b.6  b90.7  833.4  8.2  828.3
Cammercial                       147.6    T    -3Y?   94    221.9    3b  MIT   196.6 2128.   1W.6
Supplers Credits               12.6   2.8   29.2   27.9   25.9   3U.9   23.b   19.6   17.1   14.3
PinaxzLal Institutias          59.1   82.9   d5.3   79.2  113.7  129.4  126.1  117.7  112.5  106.0
fBoxs                          12.3   10.3   11.6   12.3   13.5   14.5    7.b    6.4    5.8    4.6
Nbatkxoa1izatiLo               63.6W   81.6   79.3   75.2   68.8   63.8   55.4   52.9   43.0   41.7
Non-Commercial                   258.1  257.2  278.6  4b2.3  515.3  510.0  678.0  659.8  649.8  661.7
M*tilateral                    53.2   53.1   57.9  166.4  2)1.3  221.4  307.5  306.6  3W0.1  332.4
Bilateral                     2)4.8  2W4.1  22D.7  295.9  314.0  318.6  370.5  353.2  349.7  329.3
Z of Total
Commercial                     3S     44      42      30      3U     30      24      23      22     20
Nor-Cmimercial                 64     5Sb     58      70      70     70      76      77      78     Su
Disburzsd Debt                   295.5  363.8  404.3  438.8  507.1  566.3  660.0  681.3  692.6  682.5
Gamnrcial                        132.5  180.6  196.3  191.0  215.2  224.4  194.4  190.8  176.8   166.6
SeppUers Credit                9.0    17.4    25.8     8i            2S.3    Z.8    8.2             14.3
Eiandal Insxitutikes           47.7   71.3   79.7   75.b  107.6  119.8  110.6  113.3  110.9  106.0
Bonds                          12.3   10.3   11.6   12.3   13.5   14.5    7.6    b.4    5.8    4.6
Na tioxaizatioa                63.6   81.6   79.3   75.2   W8.8   63.8   55.4   52.9   43.0   41.7
Ncr-Coamrcial                    163.0  183.2  20B.0  247.8  291.9  341.9  465.b  490.5  515.6  515.9
Ftilltilastera                D2.O    2       23.9   41.7  -76.-6  108.0  T.5  I35.5  2934  -2b.2-
llateral                     143.0  159.5  179.1  206.1  221.3  233.9  292.1  285.0  281.3  2W.7
X of Total
Camnuprrial                    45     50      49      44      42     40      29      28      2b     24
Nn-Cbmrdocial                  55     50      51      56      58     60      71      72     74      76
(B) Selected Llebt Iicatos  (Z)
DCD/XZL                           78.0  123.8  144.8  139.8  163.0  138.4  176.9  258.0  3MM.0  295.7
XD/CMP                            60.4   86.3   97.3   93.0  103.5  102.9  129.4  158.4  161.9  172.0
TDS/XGS                            4.4   11.2   11.4   15.8   29.4   17.1   21.2   17.8  ZW.0   13.4
TDS/C3P                            3.4    7.8    7.7   10.6   18.6   12.7   15.5   10.9   10.5    7.8
iNT/XLS                            2.7    6.7    5.4    5.5    8.1    6.6    9.7    9.0   1U.6    6.9
INf//GNP                           2.1    4.7    3.7    3.6    5.1    4.9    7.1    5.6    5.6    4.0
Note:
DOD  Dishrsed and Oitstad1rg [ebt (end-ear).
'mS - Public lkbt Seryice Paymens (interest and am-r zati).
INr =Piblic 1bt Interest Payments.
GNIP = Gross National Product.
XLS = Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Servis.
MM = Ivports of Goods and Nni-Fa*tor Services.
Jaiar,y/Februry 1985



ANNEX 11
- 31 -                     Pg. I of I
STATUS U1' BNK GROUP UFEkRALUNS IN (wUYANA
A.   State of bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As ot March J1, 19bb)
Amount (Less Cancellation)
Loan or     Fiscal                                      US4 million
Credit No.  Year   borrower       Purpose           bank    IDA  Undisbursea
Eleven loans and seven credits tully
disbursed or cancelled:
(Loans: 265, 559, 5b4, 7bi, 075, 1U1b,
hlUb, ibL2, lbZ3, 194M, and 1949;         bb.3b
Credits: 139, 221, 301, 544, 62U, 853,
and 1W9b)                                        Zb.14
19Ub        19b0  Governmen.t   Tech. Asst.
Ot Guyana       For Power        b.UC              U.49
1ZU8        1982  Government   Petroleum Expl.
o Guyana    Promotion                   1.70      1.15
1555        1985  Government   Upper Demerara
of Guyana    Forestry
(Supplemental
Credit)                   8.        6.k$U
Total (net of cancellation)                 7b.3b   37.7b    1U.44
of which has been repaid (March 31)        12.0?    0.52
Total now outstanding                      b3.Ud   z7.5u
B.  Statement of IFC lnvestments
(As of March 31, 19b)
US4 million
Total
Investment Fiscal                Type of                     Held   Total Un-
Number      Year  Ubligor        business kguity Loan Total by LFC disbursed
437-GUA     1979  Industrial       iome
Domestic    Appliances   -    2.0  2.0   ! 3b7        -
and
Electrical
Appliances
Ltd. (IDEAL)



ANNEX IIl
- 32. -            Page I of I
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PkOJECT JFUk THE is&U&ITE INDUSTaY
SUPPLEMbNTAKY PROJECT DATA bSEET
SECTION 1: TIME TABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  tour months.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  BIUCO/GUY?MINE/AISl.
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:  November 1ib4.
(d)  First IDA Mission to review project:  January 19b5.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 1965.
(f) Completion of Negotiations: March lYbb.
(g) Planned date ot effectiveness: September l1bb.
SECTION II: SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTlONS
Nil.
SECTION III: SPECIAL CUNDITIUNS
(a)  The Government would cause BIDCO/GUYMINE to:  carry out in a
manner and according to a time-table, satisfactory to the
Association, the measure outlined in its Policy Statewmut as
further detailed in the JIDCU/GUYMINE Action Plan (para. bY);
establish a Project Implementation Unit, with staffing,
functions, and responsibilites satisfactory to the Association,
to coordinate and monitor progress in the execution of the
project (para. b8).
(b) Conditions of etfectiveness would be:
(i) the execution, delivery and ratitication of the Project
Agreement by the Government; and
(ii) the execution of the BIDCO and GUYMINE subsidiary loan
agreements by the Government.



- 33 -
ANE IV
Pagi 1 of 4
TABLE 1: EfL& ALbmzna Refractorles Industry - Selected  stimates of Wrld Market DIta
(Steel: uiJIax   tas; other volus: In thsaod tas)
1975     1980      1981      1982      1983     1985       1990
World Steel Production           653       714       710      645       663       708       766
Befractozy Coasuptica          1,215     1,600     1,475    1,35D    1,215    1,600       1,900
Steel ratio, kg/tao             1.86      2.24     2.08      2.09      1.83      2.26      2.48
Cairized Bauxdte Caosimptico     925    1,075       900       775       600    1,000      1,250
Calcined Bawdte Share, Z          76        67       61        57        49        62        66
Qiynlme Sales                    788       598      485       373       351       600       690
Qymdne Sbare, Z                   65        37       33        28        29        38        36
SDUe: Steel production: EFD.
Otber data: 1975-830, Oqy ;n/EIDW;
1985 & 1990, Back prellhinary estimtes.
TAKE 2: QeWlze - Sals Vobm, Buvems, and Pdi   1D-1984/
198D b/     1982 b/      1983 b/    1984
Sales Voh1es ('000 t)
Calcined products                       598         373          351         546
Dried products                        1,011         699          806         767
Total                              1,609                     157 
m              m      
Sal  Revms (BS ullias)
Calcined products                       135          68           52          to
Dried produtBs                           32          23           25          23
Toa                                   6-791                    77         103
Aerge Sal  Ptice (USSlt)
Calcied Products                        226         182          148         147
Dried Products                           32          33           31          30
a/ Productiao and sales are similr, as storage capacity is omll.
b/Excldrg alxmuzm data for 1980, 1982 and 1983 to faciLitate
Souxmr iscy2-s
Source:   198D-1984:- Qrjzinde.



- 34 -
AN= IV
Pap 2 of 4
TAELE 3: Qymine - Selected EYzJucal Indicators 1977-1984
(US$ S1111)
1977       1980       1981       1982      1i83         1984
BmzxltejlAlud.m Sales              128.4       210.2      171.9      104.3       80.2       104.0
Other Incomu                         0.5         1.8        3.8        3.3        1.9       (2.5)
Cbat of Sles                        89.1       160.5      156.8      117.3      100.6       90.9
Overheads                            & 5        12.7       17.4       16.0       14.0        17.0
Cpueratlog Tom                      31.3        38.8        1.5      (25.7)    (32.5)        (6.4)
Flnmxclal ChQrge                     1.9         9.3       11.0       12.0       14.7        13.2
.,=- m atixz                        10.5        11.4       12.8       11.0       10.1        6.1
Net lncxm e(Lous) Before
rdYW7 Items                18.9        18.1      (22.3)    (48.7)    (57.3)       (25.7)
Capital Eiqenditures                 nae.        n.as       7.8        4.7        1.0        5.2
ure6t Assets a/                     66.8        98.1       83.6       85.3       83.2       74.5
oerdraft a/  -                       2.0        14.8       42.6    ) 70.7        82.3       57.9
Other S/T labilities a/             29.6        39.6       44.0     )           56.4        58.3
Net current assets a/ --=                                  r.U)    -T.iT       T535F        TC.7)
1 US$ - G$                          2.55        2.55       2.81      3.00       3.00        3.83
a/  As of eb   er 31 of the irdicated year.
Source: BIJJO/Qzrdfr*s fi*a1       t



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
TABLE 4: Guymine - Sales Volumes, Revenues, and Prices 1985-1988a/
1985         1986         1987        1988
Sales Volumes ('000 t)
Calcined products                         560          600           620         640
Dried products                          1,100        1 200         1,270       1,270
Total                                1,660                      1,890       1,910
Sales Revenues (USS millions) b/
Calcined products                          83           89           92           95
Dried products                             31           34           36           36
Total                                               123           128         131
Average Sales Price (US$/t) bJ
Calcined Products                         149          149           149         149
Dried Products                             28           28            28          28
a/  Production and sales are similar, as storage capacity is small.
-9, In current terms (i.e. including inflation).
Source: Bank projections.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
TABLE 5:  Guymine - Summary Financial Projections 1985-1988
(US$ Million)
Profit and Loss Statement
1985        1986        1987       1988
Bauxite Sales                      114.2        123.0      128.0       131.0
Other Income                         2.0          2.0        2.0        2.0
Cost of Sales                       99.2        104.7      107.9       105.8
Overheads                           17.0         17.0       17.0        16.0
Operating Income                     0.0          3.3        5.1        11.2
Interest - Long-term Debt            5.0          5.0        5.5        6.4
Interest - Overdraft                15.0         10.3       13.4        0.0
Depreciation                         6.3          6.2        6.5         6.6
Net Incomel(Loss)                  (26.3)       (18.2)     (20.3)     ( 1.8)
Sources of Funds
Net Income/(Loss)                  (26.3)       (18.2)     (20.3)     ( 1.8)
Depreciation                         6.3          6.2        6.5         6.6
fiew Equity a/                       0.0         40.6       70.1        0.0
New Long-term Debt b/                0.0         10.0        6.3         4.0
New Overdraft                       25.0         13.0       14.8         0.0
Total Sources                        5.0         51.6       77.4         8.8
Uses of Funds
Investment c/                        5.0         10.0        8.0        7.8
Repayment .of Long-term Debt         0.0          1.0        1.0         1.0
Repayment of Overdraft               0.0         40.6       68.4         0.0
Total Uses                           5.0         51.6       77.4         8.8
Note:  For purposes of projections US$1 - G$4.30.
a/ Includes US$1.7 million of IDA Credit received as equity.
b/ Includes US$5.3 million of IDA Credit received as loan.
c/ Includes US$7.0 million for project.



ANNEX V
- 37-_          Page 1 of 1
<I I;
.iH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j  ,,I jI   s    fiI    I|   Xi|   i,   IXIIX|II|II   l



- 38 -                       ANNB VI
Page 1 of 5
POLICY STATEMENT BY GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
IN RELATION ro THE RESUSCITATION OF THE BAUXITE INDUSTRY
A:   GENERAL
The Bauxite Industry is crucial to the social and economic well-being of
the Guyanese people. In particular, it has been, and continues to have the
potential for being, a very significant net earner of foreign exchange.
For a number of reasons, the industry has been experiencing serious
difficulties, which have resulted in the need for a major Resuscitation
Programme, involving not only rehabilitation of Plant and Equipment, as well
as Financial Restructuring, but also, new approaches and new emphases in
relation to the Planning, Organisation and Management of both Production and
Marketing, with particular regard being paid to cost and quality requirements.
The Government of Guyana is committed to taking such measures as are
prudent, necessary and effective, to restore the industry to a position of
international competitiveness and net foreign exchange generation, as well as,
general profitability, and to ensure that the industry is run in an efficient
and businesslike manner. In this context, the Government re-affirms its
commitment recently given in the 1985 Budget Statement, to allow public
sector management, greater autonomy in decision-making, in return for in-
creased accountability on the part of management.
Within the context of the foregoing, the Government of Guyana takes the
following policy positions in relation to the various major relevant aspects
of the industry's Resuscitation Programme.
1.   M'ANAGEMENT BY OBJECTIVES:
The Government of Guyana has recently highlighted its commitment to
having public corporations work in a structured manner towards the achieve-
ment of clearly identified objectives.
Arising out of this commitment, a regime, including performance contracts,
has been instituted for all the Guvstac Corporations.
The '3auxite Industry has also been required to formulate and develop, a
programme of management by objectives, in which particular attention is to be
paid to notable areas of weakness in the company's structure.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 5
The Government of Guyana is strongly committed to linking productivity
increases, cost reductions and quality improvements with incentive payments
to employees. The industry's current incentive scheme will be further
developed to link remuneration with cost improvements and quality control and,
as far as is practicable, the payment mechanism will be restructured to have a
significant impact on the take home pay of workers.
2.   MARKETING:
Production of Bauxite in Guyana is undertaken by the Guvana Mining
Enterprise Limited (GUYMINE) while the marketing function is located in the
Bauxite Industry Development Company Limited (BIDCO) - which also carries
out Holding Company functions in relation to GUYMINE and three other smaller
subsidiaries. Close liaison, interdependence and interaction as between the
Production function and the Marketing function, are, of course, necessary in
all industries, at all times. They are particularly crucial at this time in
the Guyana Bauxite Industry, given the technological and other changes which
have been taking place in the market, especially in respect of the Steel
Industry.
Thus, while the marketing function, as a set of specific activities with
an ultimate purpose, can be distinguished from the production function, there
is an especial need, at this time, for the Marketing team and the Production
team within the Guyana Bauxite Industry, to work in the closest possible fashion;
also of course, the institutional and organisational arrangements must ensure
the definition and the achievement of industry goals and objectives which are
realistic, effective and consistent in terms of both Production and Marketing.
The company will be required to carefully examine, the appropriate organ-
isational location of the marketing function with a view to achieving the most
effective arrangement with respect to the co-ordination of production and
marketing.
3.   FINANCIAL STRUCTURE:
(a) Guyana Dollar Indebtedness:
The Government of Guvana agrees that the funding of the Resuscitation
Programme for the industry has to be accompanied by appropriate restructuring
of the finances of the industry. In this regard, current local overdraft
levels and additions to them arising out of the Guyana dollar needs of the
resusciation programme, have to be funded by an appropriate mix of equity



-40-                       ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 5
and loans from Government and other sources in accordance with overall
resources available and financial needs of priority sectors. To this effect,
the Government will (i) provide the additional local financing required by
the Programme in its entirety, in the form of common equity,  (ii)  convert
the 1984 issue of 8 per cent preference shares into common equity as soon as
practicable, and (iii) convert the local overdraft level at the time of
effectiveness of the Potential Rehabilitation loan into common equity or a
combination of equity and rescheduled long-term loans. Any package, including
rescheduling, will be discussed with the World Bank before being effected.
(b) Foreign Debt Restructuring:
The Government of Guyana has commissioned its Finance Advisory Group
(Lehman Bros. Lazard Freres and S.C. Warberg) to assist in negotiations with
a view to reaching agreement with the lender Banks concerned, on the
restructuring of the industry's foreign debt independently of that of the
rest of the country. An approach has already been made to the main lender
group of banks, led by Royal Bank (Orion). At this point, there is some
indication that the desired restructuring can be agreed and that the necessary
arrangements can be put in place. The Government agrees to consult with the
World Bank before concluding the restructuring of this debt.
(c) Debt Servicing:
The Government of Guyana agrees to the establishment of ar. appropriate
mechanism to ensure the repayment by the industry, of its dedebtedness in
respect of foreign loans. Such a mechanism would include the funding of the
industry's debts by means of an arrangement such as a Trust. The Government
agrees to implement the latter mechanism, provided it can be managed in a
manner that does not give rise to undesirable cash flow constraints which
jeopardise the financial viability of the industry.
4.   FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS:
As a matter of policy the Government of Guyana will not countenance
countertrade transactions which undermine the viability of the industry. This
concept includes the maintenance of the industry's ability to meet all its
expenditures and, in particular, its foreign cost expenditures including debt.



- 41 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 5
The Government also wishes to ensure that the industry will have sufficient
foreign exchange to maintain its facilities and avoid either physical
deterioration or significant losses in efficiency, while keeping appropriate
business constraints on operations. Accordingly, the Government will seek
to ensure that no countertrade transaction undertaken by the industry,
infringes the above conditions.
The Government agrees that the industry will be authorised to have
access to its foreign exchange revenues without time limitations and only
subject to its reasonable requirements, in foreign exchange, and the need to
secure Guyana dollars, in order to meet some part or all of its local expenses.
5.   ALUMINA PLANT:
The policy of the Government of Guyana with regard to the rehabiliation
and recommissioning of the Alumina Plant is as follows:
(a) If such rehabilitation and re-commissioning can be
demonstrated tobe econo:.iically feasible, and if it
can be demonstrated, in particular, that it would
not adversely impact on the availability to, and/or
utilisation of, financial, manpower and other resources
by the rest of GUYMINE's operations, every prudent
effort should be made to secure the necessary financial,
manpower and other resources, and to proceed
expeditiously with the rehabilitation and re-commissioning
of the Plant; and
(b)  if not, the Plant should be "moth-balled" at least possible
expense, consistent with adequate preservation of the
assets, until such feasibilitv can, and is in fact,
demonstrated.
In the light of tl.e foregoing, and following careful consideration of
the cost structure and market outlook of the international Alumina Industry,
it has been concluded that the Linden Alumina Plant cannot be operated as a
financially viable unit for the production of metallurgical alumina alone, at
the present time; however, a restart of the Alumina Plant may be warranted,
at the present time, primarily on the basis of production of specialty
aluminas. Accordingly., the policy of the Government in this respect will be



-42-                         ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 5
to continue the study of the Plant's re-opening, while the Industry, in the
meantime, minimises the maintenance and other expenses related to the Plant
and also refrains, in the meantime, from any significant commitments or
expenditures in relation to the restart of the Plant without the specific
approval of the institutional lenders.
6.   IMPLEMENTATION:
It is intended that these policies will provide the basis from which
Guyana's bauxite operation can successfully be restructured with the
support of the World Bank Group as well as other international agencies.
We look forward to the successful completion of the Technical Assistance
Project and subsequent finalization and implementation of a full-scale
Rehabilitation Programme.
Yours sincerely
Carl B. Greeni e
MItISTER OF FINANCE
85-11-07



- 43 -               ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5
GUYANA - TECHNICAL ASS ISTANCE PRUJECT
iFOK TE bAUXITE iNDUSTRY
ACTION REQUIREI) TO BE TAKEN WiTHIN THE GUYANA SAUXITE INDUSTKY
IN FULFILMENT OF TUE POLICY UF  hE tOUVhKNMENT OF uUYANA WITH
kEbPECT TU THE INDUSTRY
Wichin the tramework provided by the August 19b5 "Policy
Statement by Government ot Guyana in relation to the Resuscitation or the
bauxite Industry', the two state owned Companies in the Industry, namely
the Bauxite Industry bevelopment Company Ltd. (biiAU) and Guyana Mining
Enterprise Ltd. (GUYt1NE) will, inasmuch as they are respectively
concerned, take the following steps, inter alia, to improve the lndustry's
pertormance and implement the Government's policy decisions.
1. Marketing
1.1       In recognition of the crucial need at this time for a close
liaison, interdependence and interaction between production and marketing
functions of the bauxite industry as specitied by the Government's Policy
-tatement, a study ot the organizational and physical location of the
Industry's Bauxite Marketing unit (part of BIVCU) in relation to the
Industry's bauxite Production unit (GUYNINE) will be undertaken by
BIDCU/GUYMINE with the assistance of RAISI and PHIBILO. The study will
determine the organizational changes necessary to improve the marketing of
GUYMINE's products and where, within the Industry, the marketing function
should best be organizationally as well as physically located and how it
should be structured and staffed in order that it might make an optimal
contribution to the definition and achievement of Industry goals and
objectives which are realistic, effective and consistent in terms of botb
production and marketing. The abovementioned study will be completed not
later than October 31, 19tb, and its recommendations implemented as soon as
practicable thereafter.
1.2       BIICO has determined that while it is obviously desirable to
minimize the Industry's exposure to foreign exchange risk in respect of
sales, the present practice of pricing product in relation to a 'basket ot
currencies' has been adversely affecting the industry's competitiveness in
a number of cases and should therefore be appropriately modified as soon
as, and wherever, practicable. Accordingly, a study to that end will be
undertaken by BIDUW/GUYMiNE, with the assistance ot KAISI and 1'UIJKO, and
completed not later than October 31, 19bb. Tne study will specifically
address the posFi.bility of pricing product in the currency of the buyer in
at least three major markets-Europe, the US, and Japan.  With regard to
Europe, the study will determine whether pricing in ECU's or in a few
individual major European currencies is preferable.
1.3       While consideration shouid be given to the possibility of
increasing sales volume with countries experiencing serious shortages of
foreign exchange by developing countertrade with such countries,
countertrade in which the Industry does not cover its own foreign exchange



- 44 -               ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
costs (i.e. countertrade tor other items than oil, specific spare part6 and
supplies or capital equipment tor GUYMINE) eventually results in a shortage
of foreign exchange for the Industry hence a drain on the Country's foreign
exchange earnings. Guymine will not enter into countertrade sales which
would result in an insufficiency of foreign exchange to maintain its
respective debt repayment obligations and to avoid deterioration or
significant losses in efticiency of its respective facilities.
1.4       A study by BilGU/GUYL4INE, with the assistance of k(AISI and
PkIbRO, on the establishment of stockpiles in Europe and Japan and the
possible expansion of the present stockpiles in the United States will be
completed by October 31, lbo, discussed with the Association by
'.ovember 2b, 19bb, and implement thereafter.
1.5       The detailed plan for an analysis of the market potential of
GUYCOR 93 by a BIDCO/GUYMINE/RAISI team has been finalized.  The analysis
will be conducted by October 31, 198tb, and reviewed with the Association by
November 2d, 19b8, with a view to finalizing the design of the Product
Development Facility by December 31, 198b.
1.6       BIDLOUIGUYMINE will. with assistance from RAISI and PHIBRO,
prepare a comprehensive market analysis and strategy proposal for each
major product line no later than January 3U, 1987, for review with the
Government and the Association in February 27, 1987, and implementation no
later than March 31, 1967.
2. Cost Controls
2.1       GUYILNE will complete the redesign of the accounting system,
including the development of peripheral but related systeus (i.e.
maintenance, inventory control, fixed assets management, procurement, etc.)
no later than October 31, 1986.
2.2       The cost control system presently being defined with MSA will be
fully operational by July 31, 1ML7.
2.3       Cost control reviews have been initiated by GUYMINE and they will
be continued with a monthly trequency in Linden and extended to Everton and
Kwakwani as soon as practicable. Their tormat will evolve progressively as
the cost control system mentioned above develops, to incorporate analyzed
data at increasingly lower levels as it becomes available. Reviews at the
foreman level with fully analyzed relevant data will be in effect no later
than March 31, 1987.
2.4       Cost control targets and quality control targets will be
incorporated, insofar as the main products and major costs are concerned,
in the 1986 plan; accountability at the General Superintendent level will
be specified therein and a substantial part of the quarterly review
meetings in 1986 will be reserved to the analysis of periormance in
relation to such targets (in addition to the present production targets).



- 45 -              ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 5
Z.5       An incentive system taking into account cost and quality
performance, as specified in the bovernment's Policy Statement, will be
developed by LUYZINE for discussion with the Association and implementation
as an addition to the existing Production Incentive system on September 3U,
19bb. The revision of salary scales presently under consideration will be
tinalized according to the same completion, discussion and implementation
schedule.
Z.b       quarterly communication meetings with foremen, general foremen
and project engineers/assistant superintendents with a strong emphasis on
cost controls, as initiated by GUYMINE in July 1905, will be continued at
Linden, Everton and Kwakwani, as well as the Quarterly Keview meetings,
with Superintendents and General Superintendents initiated in 19b4. The
Division feedback meetings with all divisional personnel including
industrial workers recently made mandatory will be monitored by the
Industrial Relations Department and other executives; a preliminary
assessment and 19bb Action Plan will be prepared for implementation after
discussion with the Association.
3. Management and Urganization
3.1       GUYMINk is in the process of implementing progressively the
modifications to the present organization chart and management structure
which are necessary to improve the etticiency, responsiveness and morale of
the organization, by shortening the lines of command and generally
streamlining it. The Association recognizes that progressive
implementation is preferable to abrupt changes and that some of the changes
considered are sensitive. It is agreed that the reorganization presently
contemplated cannot be implemented fully before the end of 198b, but that
the corresponding action plan must be developed quickly. Such Plan as
distinguished from the implementation itself, will be available for
discussion with the Association no later than July 31, 19b7.
3.2       WUYhINE will initiate and supervise an internal study (with
outside assistance by Guyanese or other experts if necessary) of its
requirements in management, supervisory, clerical and industrial
personnel. The study will include detailed recommendations for reductions
in the workforce in each of these categories if, when and where warranted.
It is expected that the study will be completed prior to April 30, 1917.
lt will be communicated to and discussed with tne Association as soon as it
becomes available, tor the purpose of developing the appropriate Action
Plan by May 29, 1987, at the latest.
3.3       The project organization reporting directly to the Chief
Executive of GUYMIhE for the purpose ot supervising the implementation of
the Technical Assistance project has been detined and its members
identified; its detailed duties, responsibilities and authority, the
procedures under which it will operate and its interfacing with the
Production function have also been defined and discussed with the
Association tor implementation upon Board approval ot the proposed TA



- 46 -               ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 5
loan. While it is agreed that this project structure should be light in
view of the relatively minor scale of the TA project, the main intent is to
use this project for breaking in personnel, methods and procedures in
preparation tor the potential Main Rehabilitation Project. It is expected
that these dual objectives will be compatible but Main Project preparation
will take precedence if and when they are not.
3.4       As specified by the Government of Guyana, it is desirable to
remove from GUYMlNE the managerial, administrative and tinancial burden ot
providing community services, as tar as is consistent with the efficient
operation of the Industry and its role as a good Corporate Citizen. To
this eftect, to the extent that Central or local government authorities
cannot, or do not wish to, take over these activities while maintaining or
improving the quality of the services provided, the removal from GUYI11NE or
responsibility for these activities including the transter of their
supervision from GUYMINE to b1DCU will be studied; a recommendation will be
available for discussion with the Association no later than April 3U, 1Mb7.
3.5       The Bauxite Industry's Management by Objectives (MBU) programme
will be further developed to include by Uctober 31, 1987, non-management
personnel.
4. Technical
4.1       A preliminary assessment of dragline stripping operations at
Kwakwani will be completed no later than September 3U, 196b for discussion
with the Association by November 30, 158b, and implementation thereafter;
it will include cost and efficiency comparisons, proposals for further
gains in etficiency and cost reductions and a recommendation as to the
transfer of a second large dragline to Kwakwani.
4.2       A GUYMIINE technical mission will assess the feasibility and
advisability of purchasing new high cutting strength bucket wheels tor the
existing excavators, with a view to increasing tne height of the BW4
benches and reducing stripping costs. A report, including preliminary
capital and operatiag cost impact estimates, will be discussed with the
Association in October 3U, 19ib.
4.3       The Mine Planning department will prepare, prior to September 3U,
1Y9b, a study of possible mining practice improvements in the Linden mines
and Kwakwani mines. These two studies will have the objective of outlining
and quantifying specitic proposals for further discussions on the reduction
of stripping costs, including but not necessarily limited to, increases in
the height of the main dragline benches, improvements in scraper operating
practices, straightening ot mining taces and other relevant considerations
compatible with the continued uses of the present equipment.



- 47 -              ANhEX VlI
Page 5 of S
4.4       A detailed program with reasonable time constraints for the
improvement ot process and material tlows control at the Linden and Everton
bauxite plants will be prepared no later than January 3U, 19b7, tor
discussion with the Association by March L, 19b7, and implement,
thereafter.
5. Alumina Plant
5.1       As specitiea by the Government's Policy Statement, (JUYMINE will
continue, with the assistance of a competent external consultant
satisfactory to the Association, to study tne feasibility of rehabilitating
and re-'ommissioning of the Alumina Plant. In the meantime, GUYMINE will
minimize its expenses in relation to the maintenance of the Alumina Plant.
To this eftect, the real costs of maintaining this Plant, regardless of
present accounting or allocation methods, will be evaluated by a joint
GUYMINE internal auditors and production/maintenance team; recommendations
for the reduction of such costs to a minimum consistent with preservation
of the assets will be made by the team. This latter study will be
completed no later than September 3U, 19bb, tor discussion with the
Association by November 3, 19b6, and implementation by December 1, 19b.
b. Alternative Fuel Study
'.1       Guymine shall (i) complete, by July 31, 19b7, and on the basis of
terms of reference satistactory to the Association, a study of alternative
tuel use tor the bauxite processing plant and associated power generating
facilities, with assistance trom consultants; and (ii) by June 30, 19b7,
discuss with the Association the results of such study.
April 19bb



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - ---- - - - ---  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -------------------------
a  ____a________________________2                                                      a_     _. _
- 14 1             -------------- -----------------------
III,~~ ~~~~~~~                                   III
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
X~~~~~~~~ .                  I                   .,,,....   .1, .j
Q~~~~~1 8                    5nR5 t'  '                                              I;@|    
____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; _________    ______---_____-____________    _



IBRD 19120R
.  ;-4rwhonna                                                GUYANA
BAUXITE T.A. PROJECT
f       YN@obaruma-; -      =     .23                                   Bauxite belt
r      >JF           ;,                ^    -    !                             *^  ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~Bauxite mines  
/        \      -'                                '      'J'               *    Processing plants
.t   XPort Koaihjmo                                         ' - ' - Barge route
Kuo        -'   Primary highways
If     Mathws                                                                              Olber roads
V Rdgdet                                         __KWO  Ch-rit            ---Traccs
Bag       -4--~~ Railroodu.
/r  "\- /)>Towolkoamo                                            egino                    Principal airfields
rel                    ~~~~~~Rivens
V E N  E Z U E L                                                     Sup                                   Intrnational boundaries
j3 -                                                                             wv 
Penal Settlerentf               dye aOnvenwoagt
IKartabu Point                                      Artemherirdm
Teperu Stone Quarry              Bauxite P&CSinoIloseholl
Ko?         uII.                                    -.          Rcksnmin e                   Pl         Bauit
I'   ~~~~~                                                              McKenzie    i ~~~~~acstPlanit
Potoro Landing *tuni mi. .libre
.<^ l(Kaieleur                     kKon            (e  { )'
s  B R A Z I L   ,SOrinduik                    I
.   ,_p                 *  vol~J..r  MonkeyMr                         w 
Monk" Mr                                                        SURINAME
Surona   K/
K,ib..0    20  40  00   80  roD  120                                       Apo,
M.il.tO      20      40      80       ec            H Hope
.el;        Koronombo
ethem
rh. W.0 O.W.I   Wckoba
4~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- \ -
Cws5u, ,-S \ 5 . '
~Wf   di Th. Kw .'Snd                      W
YP V_  Ms. .S -, VW 
of NW   w                                                                                , w
...     Ntumidpou                                                                  .
r   s
0a11BIAw rJ,                       CCE-h             >                Gunn' Sirt                     _
BRAZIL                                                            .                             BRAZIL
APRIL1986



