Document of
The World Bank
F'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15509
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
BAUXITE INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1729-GUA)
MARCH 29, 1996
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollars (G$)
The Guyana dollar floated with the pound sterling from July 1972 to October 1975, when the
Government announced its linkage to the US dollar at G$2.55 - US$1.00. A new rate of
G$3. 00 - US$1.00 was established on June 1, 1981. On January 11, 1984, it was adjusted to
G$3.75 - US$1.00. The average rates for the period 1984-89 are set out below.
Annual Average
1984           US$1.00 = G$3.832          G$1.00 = US$0.261
1985           US$1.00 = G$4.252          GS1.00 = US$0.235
1986            US$1.00 = G$4.272         G$1.00 = US$0.235
1987           US$1.00 = G$9.756          G$1.00 - US$0.103
1988           US$1.00 = G$10.00          G$1.00 = US$0.100
1989
January-March        US$1.00 = G$10.00         G$1. 00 = US$0.100
April-March       US$1.00 = G$33.00          G$1.00 = US$0.033
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bermnine         -          Berbice Mining Enterprise Ltd.
BIDCO            -          Bauxite Industry Development Company
EIB              -          European Investment Bank
Guymine          -          Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd.
Guysuco          -          Guyana Sugar Company
ICR              -          Implementation Completion Report
IDA              -          International Development Association
IRP              -          Initial Restructuring Phase (of the Project)
Linmine          -          Mining company at Linden
RASC             -          Super Calcined Bauxite
SDR             -           Special Drawing Rights
SOE             -           State-owned Enterprise
SYSMIN          -           Financing facility of Commission of
European Communities



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
PR E FA    C E    .......................................................i.
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................I................i
INTRODUCTION: ........................................................                                                                                iii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS: ....................................................... iv
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED: ...............................................V
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................................1
A. BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................................1
Background ......................................................1
Project Objectives ......................................................2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................................5
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ........................................................7
Factors subject to Government control ...................................................... 7
Factors subject to implementation agency's (BIDCO) control ......................................................                                  7
Factors subject to both  Government and BIDCO  control ......................................................8
Factors subject to neither Government nor BIDCO  control ...................................................... 8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................9
E. IDA PERFORMANCE ........................................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................................1.1
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................................................11
H. FUTURE OPERATION ........................................................11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................                                                                        12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................                                                                   15
APPENDICES ........................................................ 23
APPENDIX  A  - ICR  MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE .......................................................                                                     23
APPENDIX  B  - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION  TO THE ICR .......................................................                                           25
APPENDIX C - MAP .......................................................                                                                             34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
BAUXITE INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit Number 1729-GUA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bauxite Industry
Technical Assistance Project in Guyana, for which Credit 1729-GUA in the amount of
SDR 6.6 million was approved on July 7, 1986. The Government of Guyana fell into
arrears with the Bank Group, and the Credit signing was accordingly suspended until the
liquidation of those arrears. The Credit was signed on June 16, 1990, and was declared
effective on December 3, 1990. However, during the hiatus between Credit approval and
effectiveness, the goal underlying the Project's activities was superseded by events. The
Project was therefore revised through a Credit amendment which was approved on March
12, 1992 and which was mnade effective on September 29, 1992.
The Credit was closed on April 30, 1995, compared with the December 31, 1993
closing date which had been agreed as part of the Credit amendment. Final disbursement
took place on June 27, 1995, and a balance of SDR 32,304 was canceled as of August 31,
1995. Cofinancing for the Project was provided through the SYSMIN financing facility of
the Commission of European Communities, the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the
Government of Japan.
Preparation of this ICR was led by Christopher Barham of the Public Sector
Modernization and Private Sector Development Division of the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, with the assistance of Adrienne Taptich and Micheline Mescher,
Consultants, and reviewed by Krishna Challa, Division Chief, John Strongman of the
Industry and Mining Division of the Industry and Energy Department, Russell Muir of the
Private Sector Development Department, Felipe Saez, Colombia Mission Resident
Representative and the original Task Manager for this project, and Robert Crown, Project
Advisor. Comments from Cofinanciers have been reflected in the ICR. The Borrower
provided comments that are included in Appendix B to this ICR.
This ICR was begun during IDA's project completion mission on March 22, 1995.
It is based upon material in the LAC project files, and discussions with participants in the
Guyana bauxite industry and managers of the Linden Mining Enterprise Limited
(Linmine). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing project
and Credit historical information, and by producing its section of the report.






- iii -
GUYANA
BAUXITE INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit Number 1729-GUA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION:
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bauxite Industry
Technical Assistance Project in Guyana for which Credit No. 1729-GUA in the amount of
SDR 6.6 million was approved on July 7, 1986. The Government of Guyana fell into
arrears with the Bank Group, and the Credit signing was accordingly suspended until the
liquidation of those arrears. The Credit was signed on June 16, 1990, but was not
declared effective until December 3, 1990 when all of the conditions precedent had been
met. The initial Project's goal was to assist in preparing for a full-scale rehabilitation
Project for the Guyana bauxite industry, and the Bauxite Industry Development Company,
Ltd. (BIDCO) was to be the implementing agency.
2.    During the hiatus between Credit approval and effectiveness, the goal underlying
the Project's activities was superseded by events, including a deterioration of the bauxite
company's financial performance, and a change in the policy environment where the
Government had decided to favor privatization of the industry. Hence, the Project was
revised.
3.    The major goals of the revised Project were to: (i) stabilize and restructure
Linmine's (the most important Guyanese bauxite operation) finances; (ii) rehabilitate its
operational capacity; and (iii) lay the basis to privatize it, in order to recover the
company's sales potential. The revised Project supported an Initial Restructuring Phase
(IRP) of eighteen months to set the stage for the privatization of the company, and to
avoid continuing losses during the intervening period. The Credit amendment was
approved on March 12, 1992 but did not become effective until September 29, 1992 when
all conditions precedent were deemed by IDA to have been met.
4.    The Project was estimated to cost US$43.6 million, to which external financiers
would contribute US$21.8 million and Linden's internal cash generation US$21.8 million.
Given that the IDA Credit would provide only US$7.0 million (the 6.6 million SDR
equivalent at the time), cofinancing was arranged, taking advantage of resources (US$5.6
million) already approved by the EC's SYSMIN Facility for the Guyana bauxite industry,
and a loan from the European Investment Bank for US$6.2 million. After the Project was



- iv -
revised, a Japanese Government grant for 97.2 million Yen (approx. US$0.7 million) was
obtained to finance technical assistance.
5.    The Project closing date was extended until April 30, 1995, by which time the
Credit had been fully disbursed (i.e. US$9.1 million equivalent), except for a balance of
approximately US$48,000 equivalent, which was canceled..
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS:
6.    Achievement of Objectives: The original Project achieved several of the
objectives in preparation for a full-scale rehabilitation Project: marketing studies were
undertaken and a new product development program was pursued; technical
improvements foreseen by the Project were made and some of the management changes
were put into effect. However, cost control measures and the alternative fuel study were
not implemented, and the achievements under the original Project were of little utility in
preventing the company from financial collapse at the time. With respect to the revised
Project, the equipment rehabilitation in the end was insufficient to improve Linmine's
supply capability and competitiveness swiftly enough for the company to maintain its sales
volume. Simultaneously, world bauxite prices declined and markets softened significantly,
especially since 1994. The loss of markets for Guyana was made even more acute because
of the earlier hiatus period during which Guyana was not able to deliver the supplies
promised, and other aggressive competitors such as Brazil and China were able to
penetrate and ultimately secure larger shares of the international market. Thus, while
some restructuring was accomplished, it did not protect the company from a secular
decline in the volume of bauxite which it was able to sell. Moreover, although by June
1995 the Government had adopted a plan to privatize the company, privatization had not
actually been accomplished.
7.    Impact on the country: The present situation finds the Guyana bauxite industry
and the Government worse off than at the start of the Project. The Linden operation has
not been privatized and no potential investor has yet been attracted decisively. The
company has lost market share throughout the life of the Project, and the Government has
been burdened with additional sovereign debt due to the financial restructuring of Linmine.
8.    IDA performance: fDA performance was generally good, especially during the
initial Project when a traditional approach to company rehabilitation was involved. In the
revised Project, IDA contributed assiduously to assisting resolution of delicate financial
and managerial issues in the uncharted areas of financial restructuring and privatization.
However, the Project as designed could not be implemented swiftly enough to confront
adequately the commercial risks arising from rapid shifts in the world market for calcined
bauxite. In particular, essential but intricately woven conditionalities -- which were
necessary to ensure targeted use of Project funds, given the financial distress and liabilities
of Linmine -- engendered damaging delays in the implementation of what emerged as a
highly time-sensitive undertaking.



9.    Borrower performance: The Borrower's apparent lack of aggressiveness with
respect to Project supervision or in the pursuit of an agreed privatization strategy,
especially in the period following the 1992 elections, added to the delays in execution of
the revised Project. The Borrower did not aggressively use the established structure, the
Review Committee, to monitor effectively the progress of the Initial Restructuring Phase
(IRP) of the Project .
10.   Project outcome: The Project assisted the Government in restructuring the
bauxite industry and in avoiding closure of Linmine, but was not able to prevent its loss of
sales to competitors. As of June 1995, the Project had not resulted in Linmine's
privatization. The Project outcome must therefore be assessed as unsatisfactory.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED:
11.   Future operations and sustainability: Given that the Project has not achieved
its major goals, it is not sustainable. Future operations should not involve further debt but
possibly technical assistance and grants to assist the Government of Guyana in dealing
with the declining Linden area.
12.   Lessons learned: The major lessons learned from this Project are:
(a)   IDA and its borrowers need to be exceedingly thorough in assessing
whether the instruments and experience available to IDA match the client's
needs and are adequate to manage the risks which may be encountered
during project implementation. In cases where it appears after scrutiny
that IDA may be unable to satisfy client needs with a high probability,
IDA's exit from the project should be clearly perceived by the involved
parties to be a routinely acceptable option;
(b)   the use of a project with intricately-woven conditionalities is not
sufficiently flexible for carrying out time-sensitive undertakings, as required
in the case of Linmine. In addition, if equipment rehabilitation is the goal,
it is imperative to put the emphasis on an adequately-scaled investment
project rather than a technical assistance project;
(c)    privatization projects should not aim to rehabilitate, given that the
investment strategy of the potential investor is unknown and the
rehabilitation might tend to harden the negotiating stance of the
Government;
(d)   there is no prescribed procedural path to negotiating privatization, and in
some circumstances there may be few alternatives to a pragmatic "deal"
approach as a short cut. The role of IDA and other public financial
institutions in such pragmatic deals remains an open question;



- vi -
(e)   IDA procurement guidelines may be too complex and not appropriate to
the process of selecting a joint venture partner in delicate restructuring and
privatization processes; and
(f)   financial restructuring should not try to involuntarily reschedule payments
to important suppliers of goods and services to an operating company, as
they are essential to its continued operation.
With hindsight, the question must be raised whether the Project stood even a fair chance
of success, given that: (i) a heavily constrained State (itself undergoing debt rescheduling)
was required to assume the liabilities of a distressed State-owned Enterprise (SOE); (ii)
the SOE's creditors in many instances were its suppliers, who therefore had to be
important subjects of debt restructuring; and (iii) no immediate buyer for the privatized
SOE had appeared decisively.



PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ASSESSMENT
A.   BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Bauxite was Guyana's major mining industry and its main industrial activity.
Previously, the industry provided over 50% of the value of Guyana's merchandise exports
and in 1980 it accounted for 34% of GDP. Presently, it accounts for only 8% of GDP as
its finances have declined steadily due to increased competition in the international market
for calcined bauxite.
2.    The two main bauxite operations at Linden and Berbice were nationalized, with
compensation, respectively from Alcan of Canada (Alcan) in July 1971 and Reynolds
International of the US in July 1975. In October 1977 the two operations were merged
into a single operating company, Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd. (Guymine).
Concurrently, a state-owned company, the Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
(BIDCO) was formed to hold the shares of Guymine. In 1984, BIDCO was placed under
the direct supervision of the office of the Prime Minister, where it has remained until now.
3.    Until the late 1970's Guyana enjoyed a quasi-monopoly position for its major
product, high quality calcined bauxite, commanding high prices on the international
market. Due to its low iron and silicon impurity levels, it is suitable for use in the
refractory, abrasive and chemical industries, where tight chemical specifications for these
impurities need to be met. In the late 1970's Guyana lost market share as new
competitors, in particular Brazil and China, entered the refractory market with lower
priced product and improved product quality. In addition, the demand for refractory
bauxite remained stagnant due to recession and changes in production technology in the
steel industry. As a result of not being able to effect significant efficiency improvements
rapidly enough, Guyana's bauxite market share fell from 75% in 1975 to about 45% in
1984, and this led to substantial reductions in revenues that were not matched by a
reduction in costs. By the mid- 1980's the industry had ceased generating operational
surpluses and contributing positively to the country's fiscal and external accounts.
4.    Financial problems were compounded by serious difficulties on the production
side. Deteriorating mining and processing plant machinery and equipment, gradual
depletion of existing mining deposits, labor relation conflicts, overmanningl, deteriorating
I In 1986 Guymine employed 5,300 persons.



- 2 -
compensation and an erosion of managerial and technical manpower capabilities led to
increasing unreliability in the quality and quantity of Guymine's output. By 1989 the
company had further lost market share, down to about 30% (300,000 tonnes) of the
international refractory market, resulting mainly from its inability to generate a reliable
output. Further losses in market share occurred after 1989. These may be imputed to
delays in company equipment rehabilitation which occurred due to the complexities of the
(essential) financial restructuring and the associated lack of timely availability of sufficient
investment funds. In the last few years, sales of calcined bauxite on the market at discount
prices by the United States National Defense stockpile have aggravated the situation for
the Guyana bauxite industry. The Guyanese industry will continue to be affected
adversely if such sales continue.
Project Objectives
5.    The rationale for the original Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project was
the need to assess the viability of Guyana's bauxite industry as a prelude to making
investments aimed at increasing its efficiency and output under continued State ownership.
As such, the development objectives of the original Project were to assess the medium-to-
long-term economic and financial viability of the bauxite industry and to assist in the
preparation of a full-scale rehabilitation project. The Project sought to achieve these
objectives through the financing of components aimed at:
(a)   improving the industry's efficiency through the financing of cost control
and product development programs; the strengthening of the management
in operations and maintenance; and studying the feasibility of using
alternative fuels, since these represented close to 50% of the industry's cash
operating costs;
(b)   strengthening the industry's marketing capabilities through the financing of
market research, an intelligence and strategy development program, and
technical marketing support for the evaluation of Guymine's products; and
(c)    overcoming some critical shortages of equipment and spare parts by
financing the rehabilitation of conveyor structures and the construction of a
pilot plant for new product development.
6.    An ambitious rehabilitation project was contemplated to implement the
recommendations of this first-phase technical assistance Project.2
7.    Even before the Project Credit Agreement was signed, the (then) Government
announced, during the September 1989 Annual meetings of the World Bank and the IMF,
its intention to privatize the bauxite industry. It "had clearly decided to split Guymine into
two separate parts, the Berbice operation and the Linden operation. Both operations were
2   See the Draft Guyana Bauxite Industry Rehabilitation Project IEPS for US$50-100 million. August
4, 1989.



- 3 -
to be transformed into joint ventures with..." the foreign partners from which they had
been nationalized in the 1970's. "This would be a return to management structures
existing before the nationalization, although the Government would at this time keep a
stronger involvement through its participation as shareholder." "Talks were already quite
advanced" between the Government and both Alcan (regarding Linden) and Reynolds
(regarding Berbice). In view of the Government's new privatization strategy for the
bauxite sector, IDA reviewed the most appropriate use of the remaining proceeds of the
Credit.3
8.    To become more responsive to Borrower needs, IDA staff agreed to recommend
amendment of the Project to reflect a change in Project rationale, which was now to help
move the bauxite industry towards privatization. Given the deteriorated plant and
financial distress of the industry, IDA suggested to the Government a two-pronged
strategy for the Linden operation: an Initial Restructuring Phase (IRP) that would set the
stage for a subsequent rehabilitation/privatization phase.
9.    Before formally amending the Project, IDA participated as an observer in
negotiations with Alcan and the Government of Guyana regarding the possible
privatization of Linden. Alcan had decided not to invest its own funds initially, but to
consider becoming the management contractor in the proposed two-pronged scheme to
rehabilitate Linden, with a possibility of owning a 50% share after the proposed IRP: 25%
as free equity and 25% paid-in capital. The negotiations failed in May 1991 when the
Government found the Alcan proposal unsatisfactory, since Alcan wished to risk no
capital of its own, while expecting full, guaranteed payment for its "management services",
Govermnent assumption of most past debts, and transfer of the ownership and control of
the company to Alcan at a very attractive price. The analysis and criteria provided by the
international lenders (led by IDA) supported this decision. As a result, Alcan pulled out.
Since there was no other potential investor interested in taking over the operation, it was
decided to find a management contracting firm to manage Linden during the IRP period
and to carry out the privatization.
10.    With the Government's agreement, the Project was redesigned and the Credit
amended to finance the IRP. The amended Project was to achieve two objectives over
eighteen months: (i) the basic restructuring tasks designed to put the Linden operation in a
viable commercial position that would make it attractive for privatization; and (ii) the
preparatory work to underpin the launching of the privatization and rehabilitation phase
following completion of the IRP.
11.   The restructuring involved five major tasks:
(a)   achieving a reliable and sustainable production level of at least 400,000
tons of calcined bauxite per year;
(b)   an equipment rehabilitation program;
3 S. von Klaudy, M. Nagasu, P. Taylor-Lewis, Back to Office Report, January 16, 1990, p. 1.



-4 -
(c)    financial restructuring,
(d)    labor rationalization; and
(e)    legal, administrative and record-keeping work required to establish a new
corporation, the Linden Mining Corporation (Linmine), that would operate
the Linden facilities.
12.   Preparing the groundwork for a privatization and rehabilitation phase consisted of:
(a)    defining a long-term corporate strategy;
(b)    defining an investment program for the long-term rehabilitation of the
industry compatible with that strategy; and
(c)    designing and implementing the divestiture strategy.
13.   The new objectives were consistent with the Economic Recovery Program of the
Government, which was begun in 1988 and which was supported by IDA's Second
Structural Adjustment Credit. Their prompt achievement was important to the survival of
the bauxite industry.
14.   The revised Project held implicit risks. Achievement of its objectives necessarily
hinged upon the successful financial restructuring of Linmine and the timely rehabilitation
of the company's equipment, in the context of a rapidly changing world bauxite market.
With hindsight, however, the Project design may have under-estimated the crucial role of
speed in improving the competitiveness of the company -- perhaps by privatizing
immediately and letting the private investor rehabilitate -- and concentrated instead on
mobilizing funding for the IRP.4 Moreover, adverse developments in the bauxite market
accelerated the deteriorating financial situation, cutting down further the time available for
a turnaround. Additionally, despite the fact that political risks associated with an
upcoming election were foreseen in the President's Memorandum on the proposed Credit
amendment of February 10, 1992, the revised Project did not provide resources for
developing and executing a "fall back" strategy in the event that the privatization effort
was unsuccessful.
15.   Those risks materialized. The delays in restructuring and rehabilitation caused the
company to continue to lose market share to competitors. When the privatization
negotiations with Alcan failed in 1991, the Guyana bauxite industry was left with no
potential candidate specifically identified for a future privatization (See paras. 9 and 43).
A new Government was elected in 1992 and changed the top management of BIDCO. It
4   However, given the prior failed discussions with Alcan, the apparent lack of other interested private
partners, and the subsequent ambivalence of the new Government (para. 15) in pursuing an
aggressive privatization strategy -- and the resulting protracted negotiations with the management
contractors at each stage -- a privatize-before-rehabilitation strategy may not have been an available
choice.



- 5 -
took time to embrace the objectives of the Project and remained skeptical of privatization
as a policy option for Linmine. As a result further timely privatization actions were not
taken.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTrVES
16.   Original Project. The original Project was effective for 21 months, as compared
to its 4-year projected life. However, BIDCO and Guymine autonomously achieved
several of the Project objectives during the Credit suspension period, even before the
Project became effective. The Credit ultimately disbursed US$1.1 million retroactively on
equipment and materials and on technical assistance used to meet the original Project
objectives. The marketing studies were completed and some of their recommendations
were implemented. On the basis of the positive results of the new product development
study, Guymine pursued a new product development program. Technical improvements
in plant and equipment were made, but were insufficient to take the new product to
market. With respect to the cost control program, difficulties in implementation were
encountered. The improvement of Guymine's management structure and reduction of the
work force had progressed, but the alternative fuel study had not been executed.
Notwithstanding the progress made towards the initial Project objectives, by the time the
Project was restructured, the bauxite industry was on the brink of financial collapse.
17.   Revised Project. The revised Project became effective on September 29, 1992
and was effective for 31 months, until its closing date of April 30, 1995. This compares
with its projected 18 month life. While the restructuring objectives were achieved
partially and closure of the company was avoided, the privatization objective was not
realized5, and at the time of Credit closing Linmine remained in Government hands,
showed little promise of recapturing market share without major additional restructuring,
and remained a drain on fiscal reserves. Main developments under the Project were:
(a)   a management contractor was chosen to manage the IRP. His contract was
signed in April 1992 and became effective in October 1992,
(b)   the equipment rehabilitation program was de facto not comprehensive
enough, and was implemented too late to avoid a precipitous loss of
market share, since the company's price and supply competitiveness did not
improve rapidly enough to compete effectively with rivals;
(c)   even though product quality and customer confidence were partially
restored, only an estimated 170,000 tons of calcined bauxite were shipped
in 1995, rather than the targeted 400,000 tons, owing to losses in market
share. Protracted negotiations and arguments between the Government
and the management contractor as to who was responsible for this adverse
turn of events further delayed the rehabilitation process,
5 However, as of June 1995 the Government had adopted and was pursuing a plan for privatization.



-6-
(d)   the financial restructuring took place before Project effectiveness.6 It
embraced all of Linden's creditors, necessarily including suppliers and
contractors. Deadlock in the negotiations was resolved with the issuance
of a legislative order (similar in nature to the United States' "Chapter 11"
procedures) in June 1992. It issued creditors 12-year and one day bonds
bearing 5% interest for the full undiscounted value of their claims.
Although the objective was deemed to have been met when the legislative
order was decreed, some creditors have challenged the order, with the
result that the order's final effect has not been determined decisively (paras.
29 and 35 (a));
(e)   the labor force was reduced successfully from 3300 to 2200 employees;
(f)   the legal and administrative establishment of the new corporation, Linmine,
to operate the Linden facilities, was put into place pursuant to the
Government's privatization policy statement of 1991 and was implemented,
but not without problems due to the management structure that had been
created. (para. 23). Adequate records and accounts have not been
forthcoming as there were important delays in distributing Guymine's assets
between Linmine and Bermine. Audited reports have begun to be received
on Linmine's accounts only after the Credit closing;
(g)   the long term strategy and investment program have not been implemented,
as they awaited the results of the feasibility study which were only received
by BIDCO in their final form in May 1995, after the closing date of the
Credit. The study was delayed owing to BIDCO's request that the
consultants project the consequences for Linmine of the rapid deterioration
in the market for Guyanese bauxite that became evident in 1994;
(h)   the design and implementation of a divestiture strategy suffered many
delays and changes in direction. It began in December 1993 and led to the
writing of the terms of reference for an investment banker. In May 1994, it
was decided that an investment banker was not the appropriate mechanism
for the Linden privatization since proceeds from the privatization were
unlikely to justify the associated fees. By that time the Project was overrun
by delays and lack of funds. British foreign assistance, which was
supporting wider privatization efforts in Guyana, assumed support for this
objective and hired a consultant who prepared alternative strategies for
either privatizing or liquidating the Linden operation. This work formed
the basis for the Government's plan to privatize Linmine (footnote 4).
6   This was because it was felt that "the efficient utilization of the resources the Government is
envisaging to inject into this industry as working capital will require that a clear framework is in
place to deal with the industry's creditors and ensure the continuity of its operations." Source: IDA
letter to BIDCO, September 17,199 1.



C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   Major factors affecting the Project were: (i) market forces outside the control of
the Government, BIDCO, IDA or cofinanciers led to an extremely difficult competitive
environment for Linmine; (ii) following the failure of the Alcan negotiations in 1991,
privatization actions were not taken again until 1993, partly due to the new Government's
skepticism about privatization following its election in 1992; (iii) delays arising from the
need to sort out Linmine's financial entanglements, and a defacto insufficiency of funds
for equipment rehabilitation allowed market events to overcome the Project's ability to
rescue Linmine. The company lost market share not only due to its higher than
competitive prices, which the higher grade Guyana bauxite was less able to command over
time, but because of the inconsistent quality, availability and reliability of supply, and
aggressive competition in the international market by other exporting countries like Brazil
and China.
19.   The revised Project essentially aimed at re-establishing Linmine's finances and
market share before privatizing it. The implementation of the essential investment in
stripping equipment was the critical element to re-establishing the stripping lead, to ensure
sufficient and timely product availability to allow recapture of market share, and to turn
the finances of the company around. Delays in the availability and defacto insufficiency of
funds caused extreme delays in rehabilitation of equipment as suppliers expected payment
in advance and long lead times were required for the specially manufactured parts. Hence
stripping fell behind and the company could not fulfill its commitments on time. However,
since 1994 Linmine's market share has fallen so far below its production capacity,
estimated at 400,000 tons of calcined bauxite per year, that it no longer runs the risk of
unning out of ore.
Factors subject to Government control.
20.   The 4-year suspension of the initial Credit effectiveness due to arrears in payment
of Bank Group debt was a damaging factor affecting the outcome of the Project.
21.   Delays in taking privatization action since the failure of the Alcan negotiations in
1991 were due to a change in Government administration which initially was suspicious of
privatization and needed to be familiarized with and convinced of Project objectives.
Hence no efforts were made to begin to design a divestiture strategy until December 1993,
costing very valuable time.
Factors subject to implementation agency's (BIDCO) control.
22.   The management contractor, who inherited a very deteriorated plant, worked very
hard at improving Linmine's standing with its suppliers and clients, and made important
improvements in the technical and managerial aspects of the company's operations.
These included improvements in ore recovery, shipping efficiency, and financial
management. However, a bonus clause revision based upon achievable profitability



- 8 -
criteria7 was not incorporated into the contractor's contracts. Notwithstanding the
observed efforts and accomplishments of the management contractor, this latter fact
(coupled with limited oversight by the Review Committee (para. 23)) has given rise to
questions by the Govemment and BIDCO as to whether the management contractor took
as much care of the company's finances as an owner would have.
Factors subject to both Government and BIDCO control.
23.   The Linmine management structure, put into place pursuant to the Government's
1991 privatization policy statement, allowed it almost unlimited independence from the
Government. This created some animosity between the Government, BIDCO and the
management contractor. The management's monitoring and advisory body, the Review
Committee, made up of Government, BIDCO and management contractor representatives,
did not monitor and guide the work of the management contractor regularly, even though
the Government and BIDCO expressed serious reservations with respect to some actions
taken by the management contractor to rationalize Linmine's operations (para. 22).
Indeed, except for the review meeting on September 1993, this committee did not start
meeting regularly until April 1994.
24.   Delays in defining a long-term strategy and mobilizing privatization actions were
caused by delays in undertaking the feasibility study on which the strategy would be based.
The feasibility study was not contracted until March 1993 and its final version was not
received by BIDCO until May 1995, after the Credit closing date. The delays and expense
of the feasibility s.-udy may have been due to its fragmentation which occurred as a result
of a disagreement between the Government/BIDCO and the management contractor
concerning whether a subsidiary of the management contractor could carry out the
feasibility study due to a potential implicit conflict of interest. The management contractor
eventually overcame this hurdle by splitting the study into 8 sub-contracts which it
managed for a fee.
25.   Completion of the feasibility study was delayed further when BIDCO requested
in late 1994 that the study be updated to reflect market realities. The original feasibility
study had not foreseen a low production scenario equivalent to that actually faced by
Linden in 1994/95, hence the study's value would have been compromised had it not been
revised.
Factors subject to neither Government nor BIDCO control.
26.   China and Brazil competed head on with Guyana in its privileged refractory
markets and gained market share by lowering prices below that of Guyana's product, and
7   A bonus clause was incorporated in the initial management contract, based upon achievement of a
minimum net operating income of US$1.6 million per quarter for the 5th and 6th quarters of the
IRP. However, at the time of the contractor's inception report in August 1992, the contractor
estimated that Linden would make a gross operating loss during the entire IRP period. However, the
bonus clause was never amended.



- 9 -
improving quality. As a result, they offered an acceptable product at a lower price, and
more consistent quality and supply.
27.   In 1993, the United States National Defense stockpile began selling Guyanese
bauxite on the international market at uncompetitively low prices. It is expected to
continue to sell approximately 50,000 tons a year. This has effected a severe decrease in
the effective demand for new Guyana bauxite, which fell to 170,000 tons in 1995.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Project sustainability is unlikely, since the probability of privatizing Linmine as a
going concem following Project completion appears low.
29.   The financial restructuring was not sustainable as it forced suppliers to accept non-
payment for their goods and services, and several suppliers refused to accept the
legislative order: one has brought about legal action against the Government and another
threatened a seizure of bauxite export revenues (para. 17 (d)).
30.   In addition, the Project created a less sustainable financial situation for the country
as a whole as trade credit, amounting to approximately US$25.0 million, was converted
into sovereign debt (para. 17(d)).
31.   While the labor force reduction at Linmine is sustainable, the compensation policy
is not. Having increased wages of the remaining employees, the compensation policy is at
odds with economy-wide wage policy: it created a high-wage, high cost-of-living enclave
at Linden which will impede the establishment of other industries in a region suffering
from unemployment due to Linmine's setbacks.
E.    IDA PERFORMANCE
32.   Identification. IDA performance was satisfactory and the initial (1986) Project
design targeted the needs of the client at Project inception. IDA also attempted to be
responsive by offering to re-cast use of the technical assistance Credit in 1989/90 to help
stabilize Linmine's finances and competitiveness; however, Alcan's proposal to delay
taking an equity position until after IDA financing of an initial restructuring may well have
been affected by its expectation of concessional funding (para. 43). The sales target of
400,000 tons/year of bauxite shipped -- which underpinned the feasibility of the revised
Project -- was based upon a 1990 Government/Alcan technical study which was accepted
as professionally sound.
33.   Preparation and Appraisal. IDA staff followed known and recorded experience
when they advised upon the need for transparency and competition in the privatization
process8. However, subsequent project design focused on enterprise restructuring,
8   "The mission voiced its concerns...in discussions with Government officials and prepared a proposal
for a more systematic divestiture approach. Although no clear consensus was reached at



- 10-
rather than design of a privatization process. While restructuring may indeed have been an
essential prerequisite to successful privatization of Linmine, given its financial
entanglements and deteriorated assets, retrospectively this focus may have set
stakeholders on a "no win" course which resulted ultimately in the unsatisfactory outcome
of the Project.
34.    With hindsight, given the "vicious circle" of events described above, there were
insufficient funds for equipment rehabilitation, which caused major delays during the IRP.
While the revised Project necessarily sought the stabilization of Linmine as a step prior to
privatization, the Project did not provide adequately for possible delays in privatization.
Rather, the IRP took a deliberate "band-aid" approach to rehabilitation as it was assumed
that the company would be privatized in the short term.
35.    Due to the design of interlocking conditions precedent, effectiveness of the IDA
Credit and the associated cofinancing were delayed for 7 months. This created delays in
the rehabilitation of important equipment and adversely affected company operations.
Specifically:
(a)    The financial restructuring which was to be a Project activity was
interpreted to be part of the conditions precedent, and the time it took to
resolve delayed Project effectiveness.9 These negotiations not only delayed
Project implementation , but also severely damaged the company because
suppliers were necessarily included in the debt restructuring. These
creditors called a moratorium on supplies pending a positive outcome of
the negotiations, which made it difficult for the company to meet orders
and further eroded the company's market share as clients had to turn to
other suppliers of bauxite.
(b)    The effectiveness of the management contract was a condition for the
effectiveness of the Credit.'° Moreover, IDA Credit effectiveness triggered
cofinancing fund availability. As a result the management contractor could
not be hired initially with Project funds nor did he have any Project-
Government levels ... some receptiveness seemed to arise regarding (i) the possible need and
justification to use part of the TA Credit for transitional actions in Guymine; (ii) the merit of
receiving some outside assistance for divestment of Linden, the more complex part of Guymine's
operations; and (iii) the necessity of involving the EC and the advantage of keeping other financiers
informed." Source: Von Klaudy. January 16, 1990, p. 3.
9   The condition precedent stated: "a satisfactory financing plan has been agreed for the
implementation of the IRP...". Source: Memorandum and Recommendation of the President,
February 10, 1992, p. 11. Bank staff interpreted that "an implicit requirement for the viability of the
IRP's financing plan... was that BIDCO/GIUYMINE would eliminate or substantially reduce debt
service outflows". Source: Bank internal memo, September 28, 1992, p. 3.
0  A condition for the effectiveness of the Credit stated: "all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Management Contract Agreement have been fulfilled". Source: Memorandum, p. 11.



- 11 -
financed working capital with which to implement the IRP until the
resolution of the debt restructuring mentioned above.
36.   Whether the financial restructuring could have been designed differently remains an
open question, given that: (i) financial restructuring of Linmine was felt to be essential to
ensure targeted use of Project funds, given the extent of the company's liabilities and
associated debt burden; (ii) Linmine's creditors were also principally its suppliers, who
thus would have to sign off on any debt restructuring, and (iii) no immediate buyer for the
company had been identified specifically.
37.   Supervision. IDA promptly provided key technical assistance, and financial, legal
and strategic guidance to the Government on divestiture and the restructuring of Linmine's
debt. This facilitated the conclusion of an intense and difficult debt restructuring process.
IDA also helped resolve some contentious issues between the Government and the
management contractor. However, while IDA was very responsive during supervision,
the skill mix may not have been fully appropriate as the Project progressed. While it chose
very capable technical consultants during the initial Project, after the focus of the Project
changed to restructuring for privatization, technical mining staff or consultants appear to
have played a limited role in project supervision. Due to a lack of technical input during
the life of the amended Project, the supervision reports' ratings were too optimistic and
may not have accurately reflected the IRP's implementation record on the ground. The
"rating inflation" was exacerbated by the suddenness with which the extent of the market
collapse for Guyana bauxite was revealed in mid-1994.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   The Borrower's apparent lack of aggressiveness with respect to Project supervision
aggravated execution delays, and the wavering commitment of the Government towards
Linmine's privatization in the period since 1992 delayed privatization initiatives. There
was a lack of adequate reporting of implementation progress by the Review Committee
which was charged with monitoring the IRP's progress.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The present situation finds Linmine and the Government worse off than at Project
inception. As of June 1995, Linmine had not been privatized and no potential investor had
yet been attracted. Linmine bauxite sales declined secularly throughout the Project's life.
In addition, the Government has been burdened with additional sovereign debt due to the
financial restructuring. The Project outcome must therefore be assessed as unsatisfactory.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
40.   The remaining IDA role would be to mobilize grant funds to assist the Government
of Guyana to develop a strategy for mitigating the social dislocations in the declining
Linden area.



- 12 -
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Linmine is a commercial enterprise working in a very volatile commodities market
that involves quick adaptation to market forces. Hence, even though Project objectives
were well-intentioned at the time they were conceived, the multilateral funding and
decision-making mechanisms on which Linmine's future depended were not appropriately
flexible and agile, and were perhaps intrinsically inadequate for the task attempted, given
the technical and financial state of Linmine at the inception of the amended Project. The
overwhelming lesson learned is that IDA and its borrowers need to be exceedingly
thorough in assessing whether the instruments and experience available to IDA match the
client's needs and are adequate to manage the risks which may be encountered during
project implementation. In cases where it appears after scrutiny that IDA may be unable
to satisfy client needs with a high probability, IDA's exit from the project should be clearly
perceived by the involved parties to be a routinely acceptable option. What is clear with
hindsight is that in the case of Linmine, the use of a project with necessarily intricately
woven conditionalities was not sufficiently flexible for carrying out such a time-sensitive
undertaking. It is also clear that if equipment rehabilitation is the goal, it is imperative to
put the er,:Thasis on an adequately-scaled investment project rather than a technical
assistance project.
42.   As a corollary, privatization projects should not aim to rehabilitate, given that the
investment strategy of the potential investor is unknown and the rehabilitation might tend
to harden the negotiating stance of the Government.
43.   The practice of the Bank Group and established theoretical systematic divestiture
processes were the guidelines by which IDA staffjudged the progress of the initial Guyana
bauxite privatization negotiations in 1989 (para. 34). However, Linden presented a
particular case where the prospective investor, Alcan, was well known to the Government
and understood the business and the company well, and was the only investor decisively
interested in taking over the operation. IDA's understandable support of a systematic and
transparent process (footnotes 3, 7) may have led to a wait-and-see attitude by Alcan and
its subsequent preference to incorporate concessional financing into its proposals."1 These
proposals were subsequently not accepted by the lenders (para. 9). The lesson learned is
that there is no prescribed procedural path to negotiating privatization, and that in some
circumstances there may be few alternatives to a pragmatic "deal" approach as a short-cut.
The role of IDA and other public financial institutions in such pragmatic deals remains an
open question.
44.   Negotiations with Alcan as management contractor/investor in 1991 appear to
have been complicated by the application of IDA procurement guidelines to its proposed
hiring. These negotiations subsequently broke down. The lesson learned is that IDA
11
"...the viability of Alcan's financing strategy seems to rely heavily in the availability of concessional
financing for the industry. Even if concessional financing were to be available, a basic condition for
lending should be that no subsidy element should be passed to the new corporation which should be
expected to operate on strictly commercial terms." Source: IDA internal memo, April 22, 1991.



- 13 -
procurement guidelines may be too complex and not appropriate to the process of
selecting a joint equity partner in delicate restructuring and privatization processes.
45.   Finally, another important lesson learned is that financial restructuring should not
try to involuntarily reschedule payments to important suppliers of goods and services to an
operating company as they are essential to its continued operation. However, the caveats
mentioned in para. 36 apply.
46.   In summary, the major lessons learned from this Project are:
(a)   IDA and its borrowers need to be exceedingly thorough in assessing
whether the instruments and experience available to IDA match the client's
needs and are adequate to manage the risks which may be encountered
during project implementation. In cases where it appears after scrutiny
that IDA may be unable to satisfy client needs with a high probability,
IDA's exit from the project should be clearly perceived by the involved
parties to be a routinely acceptable option;
(b)   the use of a project with intricately-woven conditionalities is not
sufficiently flexible for carrying out time-sensitive undertakings, as in the
case of Linmine. In addition, if equipment rehabilitation is the goal, it is
imperative to put the emphasis on an adequately-scaled investment project
rather than a technical assistance project;
(c)    privatization projects should not aim to rehabilitate, given that the
investment strategy of the potential investor is unknown and the
rehabilitation might tend to harden the negotiating stance of the
Government;
(d)   there is no prescribed procedural path to negotiating privatization, and in
some circumstances there may be few alternatives to a pragmatic "deal"
approach as a short cut. The role of IDA and other public financial
institutions in such pragmatic deals remains an open question;
(e)   IDA procurement guidelines may be too complex and not appropriate to
the process of selecting a joint venture partner in delicate restructuring and
privatization processes; and
(f)   financial restructuring should not try to involuntarily reschedule payments
to important suppliers of goods and services to an operating company, as
they are essential to its continued operation.






- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                             l            G             Cl             V
Sector policies                          O             'V             E             °
Financial objectives                       l            $             E             E
Institutional development                E             '              E             E
Physical objectives                       [l            'E Cl
Poverty reduction                        El            EE                           'V
Gender issues                             O             E                           I/
Other social objectives                    l           El             E 
Environmental objectives                   l           El             E 
Public sector management                 El             V             E             E
Private sector development               E             EL                           E
Other (specify)                            l             l            E             E
(Continued)



- 16-
B. Project sustainability                               Likely                   Unlikely                Uncertain
(/)                      (/1)                      (/)
Highly
C. Bank performance                                  satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                      (I)                       (V)
Identification                                             O                         /                         2i
Preparation assistance and Appraisal                         i                        i                        '/  IX
Supervision                                                O                        Oi                              2/
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                              satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation of restructured Project                      Li                       Li                        V/
Implementation                                           0L 0/
Covenant compliance                                      Li                                                 Li
Operation (if applicable)                                a                           i                      L
Highly                  .                                    Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                             satisfactory        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
F]                                      v/                   F]
1/ IDA staff followed known and recorded experience when they expressed reservations about the initial
divestiture negotiations with Alcan, rather than recognize the need for a 'deal-maker" approach and quick sale in
line with the Government's intentions. Moreover, with hindsight, the revised Project lacked sufficient funds for
rehabilitation of equipment, and the design of interlocking effectiveness conditions resulted in delays in
implementation (paras. 33. 34 and 35). However, the caveats mentioned in para. 36 apply. The Project design
also did not provide resources to support a "fall-back" strategy, in case the privatization effort was delayed.
2/   IDA staff facilitated the conclusion of an intense and difficult restructuring process, and helped resolve
contentious issues between the Government and the management contractor. However, due to lack of technical
input during the life of the amended Project. the supervision reports' ratings were too optimistic and may not have
accurately reflected the IRP's implementation record on the ground. The "rating inflation" was exacerbated by the
suddenness with which the extent of the market collapse for Guyana bauxite was revealed in mid-1994.



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title             Purpose            Year of approval    Status
Preceding operations
1. Technical Assistance   To increase power generation,   1980        Completed
for Power (C1906)       national power system &
training
2. Energy Development   Petroleum Exploration         1982             Completed
(C1208)                 Promotion
3. Agriculture and      Upper Demerara Forestry       1985            Completed
Forestry (C1555)        (Supplemental Credit)
Following operations
1. Technical Assistance    Macro Management Capacity,   1990          Supervision
Credit (C2169)          TA to support structural
adjustment
2. Structural Adjustment  Support Macro-economic      1992             Closed
Credit                   Program
3. Public Administration   Financial Management, Staff    1993        Supervision
(C2480)                 Structure and Salary, Tax and
Customs Administration
4. Financial Sector &   Banking Sector Restructuring,   1995           Supervision
Business Environment    Privatization , Investment
Credit (C2669)          Service Agency TA
5. Private Sector       Enable Reforms in Financial    1995           Supervision
Development Adjustment  Sector, Privatization, Tax,
Credit                   Trade & Business Environment
Table 3: Project Timetable
f |   Date actual/
Steps in project cycle           Date planned          latest estimate
Original Identification                November 1984        July 16, 1990
Preparation                            January 1985         June 21, 1985
Appraisal                              April 1985           September 21, 1985
Negotiations                           N/A                  November 11, 1985
Letter of development policy (if applicable)  N/A           April 21, 1985
Board presentation                     N/A                  August 5, 1986
Signing                                N/A                  July 16, 1990
Effectiveness                          N/A                  December 3, 1990
Amendment to Board                     N/A                  January 24, 1992
Amendment Signing                      N/A                  March 12, 1992
Amendment Effectiveness                N/A                  September 29, 1992
Project completion                     June 30, 1993        January 31, 1995
Credit closing                         December 31, 1993    April 30, 1995



- 18 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual
(US$ millions)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Appraisal estimate   0.70   1.54   2.94   4.62   6.30   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00
Actual               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.12   7.23   8.56   9.10
Actual as % of estimate  0%    0%    0%    0%    0%     16%    104%   122%   129%
Date of final
disbursement         6/95
Note: Disbursements of over 100% of US$ estimate at time of appraisal reflect the nominal
appreciation of the SDR against the US$ as the credit amount was set in SDRs.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in SAR/                     Estimated                   Actual
President's Report
1. Production level of calcined    400,000 tons.           170,000 tons (owing to
bauxite per year.                                        market collapse for
Guyana bauxite).
2. Equipment rehabilitation     Rehab. stripping, mining,    Substantially completed.
program                      railways, bauxite plant.
3. Financial Restructuring      Renegotiation of existing  Partially completed.
debt with suppliers.
4. Labor Rationalization        Reduce personnel by around  Completed.
1/3.
5. Legal & Administration work   Establishing adequate      Partially completed.
inventories of assets &
liabilities & the up-dating of
adequate records &
accounts.
6. Privatization                Design and implement       Not achieved.
divestiture strategy.
II. Modified indicators         N/A
(if applicable)
III. Other indicators (if applicable)  N/A



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not defined with client at the tine the project was designed and negotiated,
since not standard procedure at the time.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined        Status     Impact of study
1. Long-term        Analyze corporate & management    Completed    To be used in
strategy for     strategy, assess productive &    after Credit   planning and
Linden           operational efficiency, prepare  closing.      implementing
operation.       investment rehabilitation plan &               privatization.
assessment of environmental impact
of operations. __ _          _



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Government of Guyana Linden Restructuring Program
(US$'000)
Investment Program          Appraisal       Actual/latest
estimate        estimate*
Total Investment                        32,712              18,552
Technical Assistance
1. Management Contract                2,000               2,570
2. Specific Technical Assistance        500               1,352
3. Privatization Phase                 1,400                  0
Total Technical Assistance               3,900               3,922
Retro payment                                               1,120
Working Capital                          7,000               4,942
TOTAL                                   43,612              28,536
Table 8B: Project Financing
Government of Guyana Linden Restructuring Program
(US$'000)
Appraisal estimate     Actual/latest
Source                                 (US$M)   estimate (US$M)
Internal Cash Generation                21,762             4,662
Government Equity                        2,300             2,330
Contribution
IDA                                      7,000             9,106
European Investment Bank                 6,250             6,130
(EIB)
European Commission                      5,600             5,400
(SYSMIN)
Japanese Grant Facility                    700               908
TOTAL                                   43,6122536
Note: Actual IDA and Japanese Grant Facility financing both exceed US$ estimates at appraisal
due to nominal appreciation, respectively, of the SDR and Yen against the US$ in the course
of Project implementation.



- 21 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Although Linmine financial data are not sufficient to determine the actual Net Present
Value for this project, it is nonetheless clear that the NPV would be negative. The market
value of Linmine operations is currently no higher, and may be lower, than when the project
was initiated, despite the expenditure of US$28.5 million over the life of the project.
It is not clear whether the funds spent on rehabilitation of Linmine would have led to
an increase in the sale price sufficient to generate a positive NPV if the bauxite market had not
worsened. The study undertaken jointly by Alcan and the GOG in 1990 suggested that it
would have. The assumptions regarding production underlying that study, however, proved to
be unduly optimistic. Further, the assumption of a steady state in the bauxite commodity
market for the life of the project has proven untrue. In any event, available data are not
sufficient to separate out the impact of the fall in prices in the refractory bauxite market from
the impact of operational improvements arising from the project.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agree-              Covenant   Present  fulfillment  fulfillment   Descfiption of covenant
ment    Section      type      status     date        date                                     Comments
Board    3.01(c)    5           C        N/A         N/A        Enter management        In compliance
service agreemeat with
engineering firm
Section    5          C        N/A         N/A         Government give up all   In compliance.
3.03                                                   management
responsibility
3.04      5           C        N/A         N/A         Establish committee to    In compliance.
monitor progress
Section    2          C        N/A         N/A         Exchange views with     In compliance.
3.06                                                  IDA on status of
execution
4.01      I           CP       N/A         N/A         Maintain records        Delays experienced in
establishing accurate
records for Linmine, owing
to imprecise allocations of
assets and liabilities
between Linmine and
Bermine when companies
established.
4.01(b)    I          C        N/A         N/A         Have records and        Audits received only with
accounts audited.       delays, owing to data
deficiencies mentioned
above.
Section    3          C        N/A         N/A         Govt. shall make        In compliance.
4.01 (b)                                               available up to USS2.7ml
to meet costs if current
ratio falls below 1.
Section    5          C        N/A         N/A         Govt. will set Linden   In compliance.
4.02(a)                                                Operation free from all
liabilities and
encumbrances incurred
by BlDCO/Guymme.



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
statement (OD or OP/BP):
SNatement number and title       i Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. None
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned               Revised                Actual
project cycle       Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
Through appraisal      N/A                                          9.1         N/A
Appraisal through      N/A                                          24.3       N/A
Board approval
Board approval         N/A                                          7.1        N/A
through effectiveness
Supervision            N/A                                          40.2       N/A
Completion             N/A                                          3.0        N/A
_Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number            Specialized staff          Develop-
Stage of project   Month/    of  Days in      skills     Implemen-     ment     Types of
cycle       year   persons    field     represented   tation status  objectives   problems
Through         N/A
appraisal                                                                                 l
Appraisal       N/A
through
Board approval                                                                            l
Board approval   11/92   1        3        Operational        2          1
through
effectiveness                                                                             l
9/92    1        8         Legal             2           1
Supervision     11/93   2        5         Legal              1
Privatization/
Economist
1/93    2        5        Legal              1           1
Operational
Completion      3/95    1        2         Operational        S          U



- 23 -
APPENDICES:
APPENDIX A - ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
THE WORLD BANKIIFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:  February 23, 1996
TO:  Mr. Krishna Challa, Division Chief, LA3PS
FROM:  Christopher Barha&i, Or. Operations Officer, LA3PS
EXTENSION:  38615
SUBJECT:  GUYANA - Bauxite Industry TA Project - Credit 1729-GUA
Supervision Mission
1.    As an adjunct to my mission to Trinidad & Tobago, I spent March 20, 1995 in
Georgetown to: (i) fill certain information gaps for the Project in connection with
completing the ICR, (ii) discuss the urgency of receiving the Govemment's section of the
ICR; and (iii) provoke decisions by the Government regarding taking of steps to privatize
LIINMINE. I met with Mr. Asgar Ally, Senior Minister of Finance; Mr. James Blackman,
Chairman and CEO of BIDCO, and his senior staff; Dr. Boodhoo (Privatization Unit,
Ministry of Finance); and Mr. Peter Young (Adam Smith Institute, consultants to the
Privatization Unit). The following points reflect the results of my mission:
Status of Execution of the Project
2.    The IDA-financed Project is winding down. The Closing Date was extended by
four months to end-April, 1995, to allow the final balances under the Credit to be applied
towards fees for the two foreign staff which BIDCO has retained to help manage
LINMINE until the operation can be privatized. BIDCO is following this course in order
to comply with its agreements with the European Investment Bank; however, my
impression is that the cost of the foreign consultants is a severe drain on LINMINE's
finances, and they are being retained under "duress". BIDCO's management understands
the need to move forward swiftly with privatization, but there is an ongoing concem that
there may be no takers, and a tendency to continue to try to prepare more studies
(including outstanding audits for LINMINE for 1992, 1993 and 1994) before testing the
market.
3.    I therefore met with Mr. Ally and Dr. Boodhoo, together with Mr. Blackman to
suggest that: (i) the only way to confirm or deny the concerns about LINMINE's
marketability was to test the market. It was therefore important to remove the carrying



- 24 -
out of further studies -- including preparation of the outstanding 1992, 1993, and 1994
audits -- from the critical path for offering the firm for sale; and (ii) what was needed was
to get a privatization consultant onboard urgently to prepare the Prospectus for LINMINE
and test the market. Mr. Ally indicated his agreement and instructed Dr. Boodhoo the
proceed with the privatization process as quickly as possible. He also undertook to inform
the Cabinet. I subsequently worked with Mr. Young to prepare TORs for a consultant to
be hired through British ODA as a matter of priority.
Next Steps
4.    An ongoing concern of the Government is what happens if the privatization
attempt is not successful. The Government will then have to develop and implement a
strategy to manage the economic decline of the Linden region. I indicated that I would
raise the matter within the Bank, to determine if TA funds could be raised to prepare such
strategy.
5.    I will continue preparation of the ICR.
cc: Messrs./Mmes. Crown LA3DR; Nouvel, Boonma LA3C2; Prefontaine
LOAEL; Varela LEGLA; Divisional Files; LAC Files



- 25 -
APPENDIX B - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
SUMMARY
1.    The conception of this project is understandable in the context of the national and
international situation at the time. It was a project that kept things going, by avoiding and
postponing fundamental reconsiderations. Reality, however, caught up with the project at
the implementation phase: super calcined bauxite (RASC) target for production and sale
was lowered from 400,000 tons/yr to 170,000 tons; the Feasibility Study did not find
feasibility and no eager buyer has appeared.
2.    Four years and some US$26.2 million after the conception of this project there has
been little improvement. The bauxite operation now needs assistance no less than it did at
the beginning of the project. Formal bankruptcy of the bauxite industry was avoided, but
annual interest charges are to be met and a fund is to be accumulated to redeem the bonds
in 2004.
3.    For 1995, Central Government is having to handle some US$17 million of
expenses put aside by Linmine so that its expenses would fall within projected sales of
about US$23 million. Some profitable configuration for the bauxite operations is still
being sought capital would be required if some possible new products are to be pursued. -
also there is urgent need for a programme to widen the economic base of Linden and other
bauxite communities. Central Government certainly needs and welcomes assistance.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN
4.    The project was conceived in line with the prevailing conventional wisdom and
needs at the time - 1990-91, it held out the promise of regaining the past glory of Guyana's
bauxite industry, particularly as a supplier of RASC. The analysis focused on the lack of
technical and management expertise and expertise and experience, the inherent
inefficiencies of Government ownership - overmanning, etc. These points of analyses
could be supported and would have had to be addressed, but this conception missed the
most salient points: that Guyana's market share in the total bauxite world had peaked
since the 1940's from which time market share had been declining even though absolute
quantities continued to increase, until about the mid-1970's when absolute numbers began
declining. In the refractory business, the unit consumption of refractories in the making of
iron and steel was halving about every 25 years. Both the volume and market share of
RASC had been declining since its peak about the mid 1970's.
5.    There were reports available which sensed the greater challenges facing the bauxite
operations in Guyana, and in particular the Linden operation: the report prepared for the
World Bank by KATSI (Kaiser Aluminum Technical Studies Inc.); as well as the report of
October 1989 prepared by Mr. Jean Loyer for the EEC. In the October 1989 report Loyer
suggested that core requirement for RASC might have fallen to 200,000 tons/yr - demand
beyond that level could use low cost Chinese bauxite just as well, hence the price for
RASC was being set low by the replacement price of the last ton of demand being sought.



- 26 -
6.    The project in its conception completely ignored what would be required to
realistically reverse the huge loses incurred since about 1980; ignored too was the fact that
the ALCOA operation in Surinam with less disadvantages, had withdrawn from all bauxite
markets in 1982 after claiming for 5 years that prices were too low. KATSI in its 1983
study developed the opinion that a 30% reduction in cost was required - conventional,
standard measures would yield at best a net reduction in cost of 10%. The further 20%
reduction would have had to come, if at all, from intangibles, changes in spirit. It would
have taken a management period of at least two years to judge whether costs could have
been lowered to the required level.
7.    The assumption that someone would have come along within 18 months, eager to
buy the Linden operations was extremely optimistic, not at all in line with past history
where the operations had been formally appraised by KATSI, UEC/USS, Reynolds,
ALCAN, Shell/Billiton, Norsk-Hydro (restarting the alumina plant) and none had judged
that the situation was attractive enough for them to participate.
8.    There were a number of clear objectives but because the conception of the
problem missed the fundamental issues, these objectives were misleading and misdirecting.
The analyses might have been sound for the (set of) features recognized and taken account
of In these circumstances, to the extent that the components were geared to meet the
objectives set, they had the potential to take the company further from reality. For
example, a greater calamity would have befallen, if funding had been available to build
mine and plant anew to produce 400,000 tons RASC/annum, then to discover that the
market might be more in the order of 170,000 tons/annum (and at prices that are still not
profitable) . The emphasis on shedding social services, cutting employment by 30% and
paying those retained significantly higher wages as the means of making the operation
profitable, distracted focus from the need for training and learning to improve individual
performance and performance of the group as a whole. This led to a further growth in
cynicism and a further lowering of morale.
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
9.    The selection of the contractor might have been the first false step resulting from
the stilted view of the bauxite situation. Minproc had an excellent reputation as a designer
and construction supervisor of new mineral processing plants and would have been a good
choice for a situation of building a new mine and plant. The primary need of the Linden
operations was for:
(a)   the study of the markets of its products (in terms of life cycle trends);
(b)   study and comparisons of its own costs and costs of competing situations;
(c)   the need to set out on a programme of continuous improvements (SPC
Statistical Process Control);
(d)   making the best use of our only potential advantage - lower cost labour;



- 27 -
(e)   seeking to reduce the foreign import content of costs;
(f)   developing other business to spread the overhead costs of the many
services which the company provided itself
10.   The initial team sent were not career Minproc people but were hired for the job.
They had not themselves worked together before and were not able to swing together
from the start of the relatively short contract period envisaged -- 18 months.
11.  It should be noted in comparison with the success of the Booker-Taitt
Management Contract in Guysuco that:
(a)   The contractor (Booker-Taitt) was very familiar with the company
(Guysuco) and the sugar business. Bookers had been the previous owners
of much of Guysuco, was in the sugar business worldwide, continued
contacts with Guysuco after nationalization, and through the Booker-Taitt
group there were persons familiar with the operations (and people) in
Guysuco, including some who were Guyanese born and others who had
worked in Guyana. Booker-Taitt would have been much more in tune and
in step with the situation in Guysuco and Guyana.
(b)   Guysuco enjoyed preferential markets to the extent of its quota in the EC
and USA whilst the bauxite operations faced competition from China
against which, from all appearances,, a good case of dumping could have
been made.
(c)   The appointment of Booker-Taitt as Management in Guysuco caused the
putting aside of political struggle within Guysuco, redirected efforts
towards production and released potential. There was no political struggle
within the bauxite operations -- and no potential reserves to bring into
production. The imposition of foreign management on its own supporters
by the Government of that day, without any explanation, generated
cynicism and bitterness in many.
12.   The overriding problem of the implementation stage was the (mis) conception of
the project, which misdirected effort. Attempts by the new Government to bring about a
reconsideration of this project were not successful -- the programme was underway and
had developed a momentum in the direction set: conventional, prudent wisdom was to let
the programme run and to see what would develop.
13.   Some of the specifics of the implementation period are:
(a)   The securing of a 2-year moratorium from the Company's existing
creditors which was vital to triggering the start of the IRP and the release
of multilateral funding, did not materialize and the GOG then dissolved
GUYMINE under Order No. 19 of 19 June 1992; absorbed the Company's
outstanding debts by issuing Government Bonds to the Creditors; and set



- 28 -
up a new company -- Linmine, with no debts on its books. The latter
caused the IRP to be delayed by about 6 months and resulted in the
Contractor receiving, much later than anticipated, the funds they needed to
get on with the planned rehabilitation/restructuring work;
(b)   An initial struggle to satisfy the demand for Guyana RASC when the
project started in May 1992, under what was described as an Interim
Management Contract, quickly became a struggle to find customers as the
inception Report of December 14, 1992 revealed and changed the
circumstances affecting Linmine and the Rehabilitation Programme. A
significant change identified, was a lowering of the RASC production
target by some 50% due to:
(i)    Government Defense Stockpile Sales of Guyana RASC at a much
cheaper price;
(ii)   The project as conceived had obviously underestimated competition
from Brazilian bauxite and from synthetics which were becoming
more attractive on a cost benefit analysis, as well as greater
acceptance of Chinese bauxite at reduced prices, by customers who
were progressively learning how to use these materials;
(iii)  The operations and facilities at Linmine were judged to pose
greater problems than perceived at the time of conceiving the
project and this shifted;
(iv)  the focus of Management to stabilizing the operations, and
restoring a reliable level and quality of production to regain
credibility with customers;
(v)   Poor implementation of restructuring and documentation of
procedures in the areas of Purchasing and Stores;
(vi)  Problems with restructuring and implementing of new Financial
Accounting Systems which caused the audited financial accounts of
the Company to be unduly delayed.
14.   In addition to bringing in more skilled and experienced personnel in areas such as
the Mines, Bauxite Plant, Finance and the Purchasing and Stores Departments to address
some of the problems encountered, other initiatives by the Contractor included:
(a)   Production: Focusing on improving recovery in order to increase the
finished product-to-crude ore ratio, thereby utilizing less ore for the same
quantity of product produced;



- 29 -
(b)   Marketing: Positive developments were: Establishing overseas stockpiles;
Price and Payment concessions; and Representation to the U.S.
Government regarding reduction/cessation of Defense Stockpiles sales.
15.   There was, however, too much focusing on and hostility to Bermine restarting
production of RASC. The traditional practice of Bermine, not washing crude ore, spurred
reconsideration of a similar practice at Linmine.
16.   The project recorded two major successes which impacted positively upon the cost
of production. These were:
(a)   Improved finished product-to-ore recovery from 19-20% to 25-26%,
through greater feed control and reduced washing, amongst other things;
(b)   Reduced demurrage costs to almost zero by a new ship scheduling policy
which saw ships being scheduled only after the required material had been
produced and was sitting on the stockpile. This would have been easier to
do as situation changed from a shortage to an oversupply;
(c)   Note should be made here of the reappraisal of stripping techniques which
has been brought about. It is now accepted that stripping by front end
loader and trucks which was never considered before, may be competitive
with scrapers, bucket wheels, or draglines depending on the specific
situation. At the moment of writing, utilizing the large dragline in an
"extended bench" mode is being tested. This could eliminate much of the
stripping done by scrapers, which was very expensive.
17.   It might be said that much of the implementation period was a coming to term with
realities and a reluctant putting aside of the original (mis) conceptions.
18.   As stated before the projected production and RASC sales figures declined from
400,000 tons/yr to 170,000 tons. The Feasibility Study in seven parts, which was intended
to show how handsome profits could be made, and so become the centerpiece of a
prospectus for sale of Linmine, seemed to identify on the contrary much overhanging costs
(potential environmental restoration bills) and great difficulty to attain profitability. Mr.
Maher's (Minproc CEO) position paper of July 13, 1994 despaired of finding a profitable
mode of operation and suggested further reduction of staff from about 2300 to 1200.
19.   Another problem area resulted from the view that the Contract Manager was
essentially standing in for a buyer who would appear within 18 months - the Contract
Manager exercising very much the autonomy/authority of the owner to be. A Review
Committee was envisaged, but any role of the Review Committee beyond that of receiving
reports from the Contractor developed great tensions, clacking with the sense of
autonomy and independence which was to be granted to the Contractor. Some policies
pursued by the Contractor, within Contractor's understanding of the Contractor's
Authority but which were questioned by the owner included:



- 30 -
(a)   Disposal of Mackenzie Hotel by donation to service organization, for
dismantling and removal;
(b)   Maximizing cash generation by pushing sale of 'scrap' to limits, including
railway line to Ituni, even (by mistake) a ball mill and other equipment
intended for new product development; and
(c)   Initially a policy to bring work done for outside bodies to an end (no third
party jobs within the company), rather than seeking to develop such
demand into profitable business activities. This policy was reversed by
Contractor in the preparation of the 1995 budget.
C. PROJECT OUTCOME
20.   Cognizance must be taken of the (mis) conception of the project. Some of the
activities set out were not feasible, others lost priority or were no longer required as
adjustments were made to the realities of the situation. Nevertheless, the following may
be noted as not being achieved:
(a)   Rehabilitation of Equipment and Installations:
(i)   Bucket Wheel Excavator System (partially completed but poorly
done; there is questioning whether such rehabilitation should have
been attempted on the old frame);
(ii)   Scrapers: no improvement in availability and utilization;
(iii)  Shiploading and shipping arrangements are unchanged.
(b)   Corporate Restructuring:
(i)   The detailed organizational chart based on a 3-5 year production
plan has not been done (would have had to be pitched at 170,000
tons/yr);
(ii)  Job descriptions started, but not completed (a major change in
approach to reduce worker classification to about 5 groups is
probably required, but was not contemplated earlier);
(iii)  Consequences of retrenchment on the community not addressed;
(iv)   Shedding of social services and non core activities enunciated as
creed, implementation and coordination with other changes not
addressed;
(v)   Training programmes intended and required did not really get
underway.



- 31 -
(c)   Administrative Restructuring:
(i)   Installation of the new admittedly better Management Information
System ran into much trouble. The improved cost accounting
system not satisfactorily done. Information provided now is much
more inadequate than before and there has been no bringing
together of cost information of the various departments to provide
a total cost system;
(ii)   Revaluation of assets not done;
(d)   Amongst the positive outcome we could count:
(i)    A 4-5% increase (20% to 25%) in product to crude ore recovery.
Vigil needs to be maintained on a number of consequential effects:
(any changes in nature of product, increased operational demands
within bauxite plant, cut-off point change if final product analysis is
to be maintained);
(ii)   Improvements in stripping arrangements, mine layout etc;
(iii)   Better (tighter) cash flow management;
(iv)   Reduced demurrage costs.
21.   Considering the project as a whole and in the total context of Guyana, this project
was part of the heading off of formal bankruptcy of the bauxite operations. Essentially,
this was a programme of deferral - creditors to be paid in the future, the fundamental
difficulties of the bauxite situation not addressed; a Management Contractor to take
control of the Linden operations until a buyer would have come along within 18 months.
22.   Formal bankruptcy was circumvented, but we are today no closer to a solution of
the problems of the Linden bauxite operation. The expenditure of some US$26.3 million
has improved the situation at Linmine little if any.
23.   The 1995 budget for Linmine has been contrived to be break-even at about US$23
million of income and expenses, but only by putting aside some US$17 million of expenses
for the Government to manage expenses which at other times would have been borne by
Linmine.
24.   We are some four years further along the long term downward trend of the Linden
operations. Hindsight shows clearly that different policies should have been pursued.
There is more agreement now that the place of the Linden operations (as well as Guyana)
in the World bauxite situation must be fundamentally reviewed - that whilst steadily
working to lower costs by rethinking the Organization as if it were a greenfield situation,
niche-markets would have to be sought seeking prices which are sufficiently profitable;



- 32 -
perhaps most important of all,. programmes must be put in place to widen the base of
economic activities of Linden and other bauxite communities.
D. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   The conception of this project was no doubt a casualty of the prevailing
conventional wisdom of the time. In the context of the collapse of socialism in Eastern
Europe, the sweeping acceptance that privatization would bring huge profits where
Government ownership incurred huge losses, obvious fundamental problems facing the
bauxite operations in Linden were overlooked. As we learnt from our contact with
UEC/USS over 1983/84, it is too easy to keep projecting a future that would be just more
of the past. USS had invested some US$6 billion in MINNTAC, in three phases, over
1967-78, then MlNNTAC was totally shutdown in 1983, five years after completion. The
engineering and financial analyses were no doubt sound and the best available-- but
orebodies developed in Australia and Brazil were that much more advantageous,
26.   Within the boundaries allowed during implementation, World Bank officials were
helpful.
27.   The big test for the World Bank however is now; now that we are no better off
and probably in a worse situation than we were when this project was conceived -- all the
problems are still there, help is needed now, no less than before.
28.   The Government needs help with the following:
(a)   Some minimum investment programme is required for Limine as it
continues to seek profitable operation;
(b)    Assistance is needed as traditional social services are phased out over a
two to three year period;
(c)    A redevelopment programme is required for Linden and other bauxite
communities, to widen the base of economic activity, counter the reduction
of employment in the bauxite operations from about 7000 in 1980 to 2300
today, to perhaps 700 in the not too distant future.
E. BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
29.   It needs to be noted that elections were due in Guyana by the end of 1990. They
were not held until October 1992 and resulted in the first change of Government in 28
years.
30.   It is quite conceivable that the impending elections would have influenced the
sense of priorities of the Government of that day that probably was not a time for major
fundamental rethinking of the bauxite industry. The rescheduling of debts which occurred
during this period was much delayed. The date set eventually for initiation of this



- 33 -
programme 1992, October 15, turned out to be a few days after the election and the
change in Government.
31.   The change in Government would have brought new persons in many areas who
would have had to be brought up to date, apart from being inclined to choose a number of
different policy positions, but whether there was a change in Government or not,
considerations after an election could be quite different from considerations before an
election.
32.   More than likely, this period of preoccupation and changes in Guyana, would have
posed difficulties for World Bank officials who were working on this programme.
F. LESSONS LEARNT
33.   It is understandable, if not essential that the World Bank in its programmes with
countries should seek to be objective, uninvolved and not affecting internal affairs of the
country. However, the World Bank officials are themselves people and inevitably become
involved. Indeed this case might question if there is not too much an assurance that
success is inevitable once certain tangible, objective things are put right. Subjective and
intangible things are difficult to address, but often make all the difference -- in fact some
persons argue that the subjective and intangible set the boundaries within which the
objective and tangible are allowed to prevail. Success comes more from passionate drives
to synthesize and create,
34.   World Bank should ideally be a source of assistance once the country has decided
what it wants to do, but World Bank is often so important that countries seek to satisfy
the World Bank and the actions of the World Bank inevitably play a role in the internal
policies of the country. In his October 1989 review Mr. Loyer remarked on senior
management at Guymine being cynical about the targets which were set to conform with
previous arrangements with World Bank, whilst a tour of the mines and plant left no
doubt that the targets were not possible. Loyer's 1989 report was of a tone altogether
different from those of his preceding periodic reviews commencing 1979. How long does
it take to learn about and make sound judgments on a complex situation? Indications are
that both Guyana Government of the day and the World Bank were uncomfortable, with
Loyer's October 1989 report.
35.   Programmes should reflect a greater sense of tentativeness and testing, and should
be robust so as to cope with a wide range of realities around that which was perceived.
There should be mechanisms for quick redirection as experience is gained.
Samuel A. Hinds
Prime Minister
April 19, 1995






IBRD 25723
60'    rohano
N-                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
GUYANA
PV PORT                  K-k
<4,      ~             9)K TITUMA                 S,
MoN\OhenJ                                             E )  CHARIkT
Rldgr Q/   Kwobrvanr/   Qv:                    ~~~~ATLIN 11' 
<4,             tW           , ) TOW AKAI  M5A                   P ick n,sg d  )ONNAKREGINA                       T L A
-  ,                        ~~~~~~~~~ADVENIR ~  A -
i ~ SUPENAM0               *
-                                ~~~~~~~~~~~0                 GORGETOWN
- ESSEQUIBO         ,         EORGETOWN
Mine             / REEDEINCr E       AHA!1A
STEIN    OESDV E          BUSH LOT
{   ^  p   ---  :o    ;ICA : 7 ROSIGNOL   NEW AMSTERDAM
KURUPUNOG                    .          0'   E°\t    W4 him
-ARA         CORR VERTOrD
K---gISSAO                                                             C     S    FRIFN1Si-I   ^----            SEnIje
PoTARO                               KinhAR   /  IT|JNIA H
LANDING U   <          1               OKY;AK9IAR              _
MAHDIA                                0 OKWA.1
HOLMIGCp
j              -                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~KJRUPL.KAR.    - 1  
R,JMAIPJtI
kI ,DJ/JG            SU  RI NAM  E
K                ~~~The  boa-d--es clos
d-eoo,-niriai,i  arid  any
othe-  -if .or.oation  ShC>w-,
-   PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                           on  this  -ap   rao    rot
,"nply,   o    the  part  of   4
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                      The W      d orl  ank  Grorp.
any , udgi-ent on the legal
-TRACKS                                                                                               status  of  aiiy  len iloi 
RAILROADS                                                                                            on occe payrnceofsuch
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                bKn7mbn                                               -oondaries.          su
O  TOWNS
+   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
- RIVERS
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    5AND CR
WI~CHABA,    L(
MILES                   RA      j
O    0   20   30   40   50              _                 AISHALTON
I 70    40          0     B0I
K IL O M E T E R S           _            L U M IO.- L,
60          1   L MID PAU                                             
PANM4       (-_ GUYANA             ATLANTI
NEZE                      OCEAN
COLULMBI
ECUADOR        Area of Map
l: ' P  E                                                     _ _ 7    ~~B R A Z I L                                              AARH19
PAARCH 19954









! MA (I I Nt*'
{,epc!'rt  Nlo:            1 5550 .
Tv'pe: ICX



