Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1729-GUA
Development Credit Agreement
(Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project)
between
GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 16, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 1729-GUA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1990 between GUYANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having given to the Association a statement dated 
November 7, 1985, describing its policies regarding rehabilitation of the Guyana 
bauxite industry (hereinafter called the "Policy Statement"); and
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd. 
(GUYMINE) with the assistance of the Borrower and of Bauxite Industry Development 
Company Ltd. (BIDCO) and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to BIDCO and GUYMINE the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BIDCO and GUYMINE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of  this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BIDCO" means Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd., an entity 
organized under the Companies Act of Guyana and operating under its Memorandum and 
Articles of Association, dated February 3, 1976;
(b)
"GUYMINE" means Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd., an entity organized under 
the Companies Act of Guyana and operating under its Memorandum and Articles of 
Association, dated October 30, 1977;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BIDCO 
and GUYMINE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BIDCO pursuant to Sections 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; "BIDCO Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided 
for in the BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement; and "BIDCO Capital Contribution" means the 
equity capital contribution provided for in the BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement;
(e)
"GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreements means the agreement to be entered into 
between BIDCO and GUYMINE pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement and 4.01 (a) 
of the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; "GUYMINE 
Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for in the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement; and 
"GUYMINE Capital Contribution" means the equity capital contribution provided for in 
the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement;
(f)
"Subsidiary Agreements" means the BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement and the 
GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement referred to collectively;
(g)
"Subsidiary Loans" means the BIDCO Subsidiary Loan and the GUYMINE 
Subsidiary Loan referred to collectively;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Guyana Dollars" means the currency of the Borrower; and 
 
(j)
"Action Plan" means the action plan set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Association, the Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to 6,600,000 Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6.6 million).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, for expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a Special Account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The closing date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)  in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn all outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March l and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1, commencing September 
1, 1996 and ending March 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%) of such 
principal amount,  and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(l-l/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BIDCO is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause BIDCO and GUYMINE to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Action Plan, all the obligations of BIDCO 
and GUYMINE therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable BIDCO and GUYMINE to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
Page  4
(b)
The  Borrower  shall  enter  into  the  BIDCO  Subsidiary Agreement with 
BIDCO, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association 
which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this agreement for: 
(i) relending an amount equivalent to SDR 5,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit 
to BIDCO, and (ii) making available to BIDCO, an amount equivalent to SDR 1,600,000 
out of the proceeds of the Credit as equity capital contribution.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BIDCO Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the BIDCO Subsidiary agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) cause BIDCO and GUYMINE to enter into the GUYMINE 
Subsidiary agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association and shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and in Section 4.01 (a) of the Project Agreement;  (ii) cause BIDCO and 
GUYMINE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the GUYMINE Subsidiary 
Agreement all the obligations of BIDCO and GUYMINE therein set forth; and (iii) shall 
take or cause to be taken all action,  including the issuance of necessary 
authorizations, to enable BIDCO and GUYMINE to perform such obligations.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
GUYMINE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) provide the additional 
financing required to carry out the
Resuscitation Programme set forth in the Borrower's Policy Statement in its entirety 
in the form of common equity; (ii) cause the 1984 issue of eight percent (8%) 
preference shares by GUYMINE to be
converted into common equity; and (iii) take the measures necessary to carry out the 
financial restructuring of the bauxite industry in Guyana (hereinafter referred to as 
the bauxite industry), as agreed between the Borrower and the association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, consistent with its Policy Statement:
(a)
not countenance counter trade transactions which will undermine the 
viability of the bauxite industry, including the maintenance of the bauxite industry's 
ability to meet all of
its expenditures, and in particular, its foreign exchange cost expenditures, including 
debt;
(b)
ensure that the bauxite industry will have sufficient foreign exchange to 
maintain its facilities and avoid either physical deterioration or significant losses 
in efficiency, while
keeping appropriate business constraints;
(c)
ensure that no counter trade transactions undertaken by the bauxite 
industry infringes the conditions stated in parts (a) and (b) of this Section; and
(d)
ensure that the bauxite industry will have access to its foreign exchange 
revenues without time limitations, subject only to reasonable requirements of the  
Borrower, and access to Guyana Dollars, in order to meet all or part of the bauxite 
industry's local expenses.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, or shall cause its Central Bank to: (i) have 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association monthly 
certified statements of the Special Account and all such other information concerning 
such
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the commitments described in the Policy Statement, or a significant part of such 
statement, will be carried out by the Borrower or at the Borrower's direction.
(b)
BIDCO or GUYMINE shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BIDCO or GUYMINE will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(d)
The Companies Act of Guyana, the BIDCO Articles of Association, or the 
GUYMINE Articles of Association shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of BIDCO or 
GUYMINE to perform any of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BIDCO or GUYMINE or for the 
suspension of their respective operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.OI (d) of the General Conditions the 
following additional events of acceleration are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
The events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of BIDCO 
and GUYMINE has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate entities 
and all necessary governmental actions have been taken;
(b)
The BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and BIDCO;
Page  6
(c)
The GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed behalf of on 
BIDCO and GUYMINE; and
(d)
All actions by the Borrower and corporate actions by BIDCO and GUYMINE 
required to provide the BIDCO Capital Contribution by the Borrower to BIDCO, and the 
GUYMINE Capital Contribution by BIDCO to GUYMINE, have been taken in terms 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)
That the Project Agreement has been dully authorized or ratified by BIDCO 
and GUYMINE, and is legally binding upon BIDCO and GUYMINE in accordance with its 
terms;
(b)
That the BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and BIDCO and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BIDCO in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
That the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by BIDCO and GUYMINE and is legally binding upon BIDCO and GUYMINE in 
accordance with its terms; and
(d)
That all actions required to provide the BIDCO Capital Contribution and 
GUYMINE Capital Contribution as capital contributions to BIDCO and GUYMINE, pursuant 
to the Subsidiary Agreements, respectively, have been taken.
Section 6.03. The date October 16, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 Of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
GY 3038
Georgetown, Guyana
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States, of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
GUYANA
By /s/ Cedric H. Grant
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods                      3,750,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2) Consultants'               1,900,000        100% of foreign
    services                                    expenditures
(3) Unallocated                  950,000
   TOTAL            SDR 6,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term foreign expenditures means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
Page  8
$3.000,000, may be made on account of payments made for eligible Project expenditures 
before that date but after April 1, 1985.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are: (i) to provide a basis for assessing the 
medium and long term economic and financial viability of the Borrower's bauxite 
industry; and (ii) to assist in preparing a proposal for a full scale rehabilitation 
project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Product Development Program for GUYMINE
 
1.
Carrying out a bauxite market study addressing, inter alia, the issues of 
submarket, optimal product specifications, pricing, volumes, substitution and 
competitive risk.
2.
Developing a pilot plant with a capacity of about 8 tons per day  of new 
refractory products, including acquisition and utilization of equipment.
Part B:
Cost Control Program for GUYMINE
 
Developing a cost control program including, inter alia:
1.
The definition, designing, testing, and full implementation of a modern cost 
control system fully integrated with the GUYMINE's accounting system;
2.
The development of a process control system to monitor product flows and 
operating conditions of the Linden and Everton bauxite processing plants, including 
acquisition and utilization of equipment; and
3.
The rehabilitation of conveyor structures of the bauxite processing plants.
 
Part C:
Technical Assistance
 
Provision of technical assistance to assist GUYMINE and BIDCO in the following 
areas:
1.
Market research, intelligence, technical support and strategy, including 
training of GUYMINE and BIDCO staff;
2.
Market development, including development of: (i) new products; and (ii) new 
applications of existing products;
3.
Improvement of operations and maintenance in the Linden and Berbice divisions, 
including training of GUYMINE staff; and 
4.
Project implementation assistance.
 
Part D:
Alternative Fuel Study
 
Carrying out of a study of alternative fuels to be used by the bauxite 
processing plant  and associated power generating facilities.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
Page  9
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term eligible Categories means categories of items to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term eligible expenditures means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule l to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall he made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the  Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
can be made 
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to eligible 
Categories 
for the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding 
qualified agreement to 
reimburse made by the Association and of any 
outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the
Page  10
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreements
1.
The following relending terms ant conditions shall be observed in respect of the 
proceeds of the Credit to be relent by the Borrower to BIDCO pursuant to Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement and
by BIDCO to GUYMINE pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement and Section 4.01 
(a) of the Project Agreement:
(i)
The  Subsidiary Loans  shall  he  denominated  in dollars and 
repaid in Guyana 
Dollars.
 
(ii)
BIDCO and GUYMINE shall repay the Subsidiary Loans to the Borrower 
and BIDCO, 
respectively, over a period of fifteen years, including 
therein three years 
grace period.
 
(iii)
BIDCO and GUYMINE shall pay interest at a fixed rate of eight and 
twenty-three 
hundredths of one percent (8.23%) on the principal amount of 
the BIDCO 
Subsidiary Loan and the GUYMINE Subsidiary Loan, 
respectively, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
 
2.
The Borrower shall make the BIDCO Capital Contribution pursuant to Section 3.01 
(b) of this 4 Agreement, and BIDCO shall make the GUYMINE Capital Contribution 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of
this Agreement, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Action Plan
Unless otherwise specified, BIDCO and GUYMINE shall take the following actions 
as part of the implementation of the Project:
1.
Marketing
 
1.1
(a)
carry out a study of the Bauxite Marketing Unit, a part of BIDCO, in 
relation to the Bauxite Production Unit, a part of GUYMINE with assistance from 
consultants in order to determine:
(i)
organizational changes necessary to improve the marketing of 
GUYMINE's  
products  (hereinafter "products");
 
(ii)
the best organizational and physical location of marketing 
functions for 
products; and
 
(iii)
optimal organizational structure and staffing necessary to achieve  
Page  11
industry  
objectives for marketing and production as those objectives 
have been set 
forth in the Policy Statement;
 
(b)
By December 31, 1990, discuss with the Association the results of such 
study; and
(c)
Implement thereafter the recommendations of such study as agreed to by 
the Association.
1.2
(a)
carry out a study of bauxite product pricing practices with assistance 
from consultants in order to determine:
(i)
the merits of pricing products in the currency of the buyer in at 
least three 
major markets, including Europe, the united States and 
Japan; and
(ii)
with respect to the European market, whether the preferable 
currency may be  
individual country currency or European Currency 
Units;
(b)
By October 31, 1990, discuss with the Association the results of the 
study; and
(c)
Implement thereafter the recommendations of such study as agreed to by 
the Association.
1.3
Take all actions necessary to comply with the provisions of Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement and refrain from taking any actions contrary to the provisions of said 
Section.
1.4
(a)
Complete a study of: (i) the merits of establishing product stockpiles 
and the steps required to establish any such stockpiles in Europe and Japan; ant (ii) 
the potential for expansion
of product stockpiles in the united States with assistance from consultants;
(b)
By October 31, 1990, discuss with the Association the results of the 
study; and
(c)
Implement thereafter the recommendations as agreed to by the Association.
 
1.5
(a)
Complete an analysis, acceptable to the Association, of the market 
potential for GUYCOR 93 with assistance from consultants;
(b)
Review and discuss the results of the market potential analysis with the 
Association; and
(c)
Finalize, by December 31, 1993, design of the GUYCOR 93 Product 
Development Facility, utilizing the market potential analysis and comments of the 
Association thereon.
1.6
(a)
Prepare a market analysis and strategy proposal for each product line 
with consultants;
(b)
Review and discuss the proposal with the Borrower and the Association by 
October 31, 1990; and
(c)
Implement the proposal as the same may have been revised after discussion 
with the Borrower and the Association, by December 31, 1990.
2.
Cost and Other Control Systems
 
2.1
GUYMINE shall redesign its accounting system, including related systems for 
maintenance, inventory control, fixed asset management and procurement, by June 30, 
1991.
2.2
A cost control system ("system") designed in conjunction with consultants shall 
be implemented by GUYMINE and fully operational by June 30, 1992.
Page  12
2.3
GUYMINE shall: (i) continue to have monthly cost control review meetings at the 
management level at Linden and Berbice operations; and (ii) continue to have cost 
control review meetings
on a monthly basis at the foreman level at Linden and Berbice operations.
2.4
GUYMINE shall within its annual plan, starting with the 1991 annual plan, 
establish cost control and quality control targets and specify accountability for such 
targets at the superintendent and higher levels of management.
2.5
GUYMINE shall: (a) develop an industry incentive scheme taking into account cost 
and quality performance; and (b)implement the same by December 31, 1992.
2.6
GUYMINE shall continue the communications meetings already established, 
including:
(a)
quarterly communications meetings with foremen, general foremen and 
project supervisory personnel at Linden and Berbice operations;
(b)
quarterly review meetings of superintendents and higher levels of 
management; and
(c)
divisional feedback meetings for non-management employees which shall be 
monitored by the Industrial Relations Department of GUYMINE.
3.
Management and Organization
 
3.1
GUYMINE shall complete the implementation of a reorganization of the management 
structure, satisfactory to the Association, to shorten lines of command, streamline 
the management structure and improve efficiency of operations, by October 31, 1990.
3.2
GUYMINE shall: (a) conduct a study of its work force, including the clerical, 
industrial, management and supervisory personnel to determine ant recommend 
appropriate levels of staffing,
including, but not limited to, recommendations for reductions in staff if necessary; 
(b) after discussion with, and comments by, the Association, develop by March 31, 1991 
purpose an action plan to implement  such recommendations; and (c) implement the same 
thereafter.
3.3
The Project Implementation Unit described in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project 
Agreement shall be maintained with personnel and functions satisfactory to the 
Association, including at least the
following: 
(i)
direct reporting to the Chief Executive Officer of GUYMINE; and
 
(ii)
preparation of a program for personnel training and of methods and 
procedures 
for a potential full scale rehabilitation Protect
 
3.4
(a)
complete a study and make recommendations regarding the transfer from 
GUYMINE to BIDCO and other entities of the provision of community services; (b) 
discuss the recommendations of the study with the Association, by October 31, 1990; 
and (c) thereafter implement the recommendations on a timetable acceptable to the 
Association.
3.5
A management by objectives program shall be further developed for the bauxite 
industry to include by October 31, 1990, non-management employees.
4.
Technical
 
4.1
Present to the Association a report assessing dragline stripping operations at 
Rwakwani, including cost and efficiency comparisons, proposals for improvement, and 
recommendations regarding transfer of a second dragline to Kwakwani;  (b) discuss the 
report with the Association by October 31, 1990; and (c) implement the same 
thereafter.
4.2
(a)
Present to the Association a report assessing the feasibility of 
Page  13
installing new high cutting-strength bucket wheels for existing  excavators, including 
capital and operating cost
estimates; (b) discuss the report with the Association by June 30, 1991; and (c) 
implement the same, as appropriate, thereafter.
4.3
(a)
GUYMINE shall present to the Association the results of two studies of 
potential mining practice improvements at (1) the Linden mines and (2) the Kwakwani 
mines;
(b)
Such studies shall include quantifying specific proposals for reducing 
stripping costs, including, but not limited to, potential increases in the height of 
main dragline benches, improvements in scraper operating practices, straightening of 
mining faces and other proposals compatible with the continued use of present 
equipment;
(c)
Discuss the results of the studies with the Association by October 31, 
1991; and
(d)
Implement the same, as appropriate, thereafter.
 
4.4
(a)
Present  to  the Association a program for  the improvement of process 
and material flows, including a timetable for implementation, at the Linden and 
Everton bauxite plants; (b)
discuss the program with the Association by June 30, 1991; and (c) implement the same, 
as appropriate, thereafter.
5.
Alumina Plant
 
(a)
GUYMINE shall minimize the expenses of maintaining the alumina plant by: 
(i) determining the real cost of maintaining the alumina plant by means of an internal 
audit; and (ii) conducting a study in order to recommend means of reducing maintenance 
costs to a minimum, consistent with preservation of assets;
(b)
The results of such study shall be discussed with  the Association in  
December  31,  1990 and implementation  of  such recommendations acceptable to the 
Association, shall begin by
April 1, 1990; and
(c)
GUYMINE shall: (i) continue to study, with assistance from consultants, 
the feasibility of rehabilitating and recommissioning the Alumina Plant; and (ii) upon 
completion of the study, discuss the results thereof with the Association.
6.
Alternative Fuel Study
 
6.1
GUYMINE shall: (i) complete, by December 31, 1991, a study of alternative fuel 
use for the bauxite processing plant and associated power generating facilities, with 
assistance from consultants; and (ii) by March 31, 1992, discuss with the Association 
the results of such study.
