Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1729 GUA
Project Agreement
(Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
and
Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd.
July 16, 1990 
CREDIT NUMBER 1729 GUA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BAUXITE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD. (BIDCO), and GUYANA 
MINING ENTERPRISE LTD. (GUYMINE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Guyana (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 6,600,000 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6.6 million), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BIDCO and GUYMINE agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BIDCO, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to BIDCO on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
subsidiary agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between BIDCO and GUYMINE, 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement made 
available by the Borrower to BIDCO will be made available by BIDCO to GUYMINE on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary agreement; and
WHEREAS BIDCO and GUYMINE, in consideration of the Association's entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BIDCO and GUYMINE declare their respective commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and to this end, BIDCO and GUYMINE shall jointly carry out the Project and 
the Action Plan, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, marketing, financial, and engineering practices, and BIDCO 
and GUYMINE shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
GUYMINE shall establish and maintain, until the completion report referred to in 
Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions has been furnished to the Association, a 
Project Implementation Unit, in charge of coordinating and monitoring the 
implementation of the Project, with staffing, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. BIDCO and GUYMINE shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. BIDCO and GUYMINE shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association 
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreements, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BIDCO and GUYMINE of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreements; and
(c)
take all actions necessary, or refrain from taking action if necessary, 
to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Policy Statement with respect to the 
bauxite industry.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants of GUYMINE
Section 3.01. GUYMINE shall duly perform all its obligations under the GUYMINE 
Subsidiary Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. GUYMINE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
Page  3
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. GUYMINE shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.04. GUYMINE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. (a) GUYMINE shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and the resources and expenditures of GUYMINE in respect of the Project.
(b)
GUYMINE shall:
 
(i)
have its accounts, including reimbursement from the Special 
Account, and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof and said 
records, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, GUYMINE shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until one year after the completion of the audit for the 
fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as 
to whether the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawal in respect of such 
expenditures 
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of BIDCO
Section 4.01. (a) BIDCO shall enter into the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement with 
GUYMINE, under the terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association and shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Page  4
Development Credit Agreement for: (i) relending to GUYMINE an amount equivalent to SDR 
5,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit on lent by the
Borrower to BIDCO; (ii) making available to GUYMINE, an amount equivalent to SDR 
1,600,000 out of the proceeds of the BIDCO Capital Contribution, as equity capital 
contribution to GUYMINE; and
(b)
BIDCO shall exercise its rights under the BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement and 
the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner so as to protect the interests of 
BIDCO, the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the BIDCO 
Subsidiary Agreement or the
GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.02. BIDCO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, management and financial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.03. BIDCO shall at all times operate and maintain its offices, 
buildings and equipment in respect of the bauxite industry, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
management and financial practices.
Section 4.04. BIDCO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. BIDCO as the sole shareholder of GUYMINE undertakes to provide 
GUYMINE all the financial and other resources required by GUYMINE to carry out the 
Project and carry out all of the obligations of GUYMINE set forth in this Agreement.
Section 4.06. (a) BIDCO shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and the resources
and expenditures of BIDCO in respect of the Project.
(b)
BIDCO shall, in respect of the Project:
 
(i)
have its accounts, including reimbursements from the Special 
Account, and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fig al year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof and said 
records, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, BIDCO shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
Page  5
for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as 
to whether the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn in respect of such 
expenditures 
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BIDCO and GUYMINE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify BIDCO and GUYMINE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
dully given or made when it shall he delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  6
For BIDCO:
Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
71 Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BIDCO
GY 2244
Georgetown, Guyana
For GUYMINE:
Guyana Mining Enterprises Ltd.
Mackenzie Linden,
Guyana
Cable address:
Telex:
 
GUYMINE
GY 2245
Mackenzie Linden, Guyana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BIDCO may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman of BIDCO or such other person or persons as the 
Chairman of BIDCO shall designate in writing, and BIDCO shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this agreement on behalf of GUYMINE may be 
taken or executed by the Chief Executive Officer of GUYMINE or such other person or 
persons as the Chief Executive Officer of GUYMINE shall designate in writing, and 
GUYMINE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to he signed in their respective names in 
the district of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BAUXITE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD.
By /s/ Cedric H. Grant
Authorized Representative
Page  7
GUYANA MINING ENTERPRISE LTD.
By /s/ Cedric H. Grant
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Guyana may be granted a 15% margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.59 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
For contracts, or groups of contracts, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 to $300,000, goods may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least four qualified suppliers from at least three countries 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Sections I and II of such Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 
thereof).
2.
(a)
Goods other than those referred to in (b) below, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit not exceeding the equivalent of $2,300,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Proprietary items for the pilot plant included under Part A.2 of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
not exceeding $100,000, may be
acquired through direct contracting.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
Page  8
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 (the Special 
Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Sections 3.01 (c) (ii) and 4.06 (c) (ii) of this 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of lO% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist GUYMINE and BIDCO in carrying out the Project, GUYMINE and 
BIDCO shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 
1981.
