CREDIT NUMBER 1729 GUA
Project Agreement
(Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT Association
and
Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
and
Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd.
Dated                  , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1729 GUA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     j   h4 /f               , 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIION (the Association) and BAUXITE
INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD. (BIDCO), and GUYANA M1NING
ENTERPRISE LTD. (GUYMINE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Guyana (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to 6,600,000 Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6.6 million), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BIDCO and
GUYMINE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BIDCO, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BIDCO on
the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary agreement;
(c)   by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
BIDCO and GUYMINE, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement made available by the Borrower to BIDCO
will be made available by BIDCO to GUYMINE on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in said subsidiary agreement; and
WHEREAS BIDCO and GUYMINE, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.   Unless the context otherwise requires, th-
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BIDCO and GUYMINE declare their respective
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and to this end, BIDCO and
GUYMINE shall jointly carry out the Project and the Action Plan, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, marketing, financial, and engineering practices, and
BIDCO and GUYMINE shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, GUYMINE shall establish and maintain, until the
completion report referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions has been furnished to the Association, a Project Imple-
mentation Unit, in charge of coordinating and monitoring the
implementation of the Project, with staffing, functions and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. BIDCO and GUYMINE shall carry out the obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. BIDCO and GUYMINE shall:
(a)   at the request of tha Association, exchange views with
the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Agreements, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit;
(b)   promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the


﻿-3-
performance by BIDCO and* GUYMINE of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreements; and
(c)   take all actions necessary, or refrain from taking
action if necessary, to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Policy Statement with respect to the bauxite industry.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants of GUYHINE
Section 3.01. GUYMINE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement and, except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. GUYMINE shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. GUYMINE shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
Section 3.04. GUYNINE shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as 'shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. (a) GUYMINE shall maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition and the resources
and expenditures of GUYMINE in respect of the Project.
(b)   GUYMINE shall:
(i) have its accounts, including reimbursement from
the Special Account, and its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal


﻿-4-
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records,
as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, GUYMINE shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the completion of the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last with-
drawal from the Credit Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report thereof
contains, in respect of such separate accounts,
a separate opinion by the said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawal in
respect of such expenditures have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of BIDCO
Section 4.01. (a) BIDCO shall enter into the GUYMINE Sub-
sidiary Agreement with GUYMINE, under the terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and shall include, inter
alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement for: (i) relending to GUYMINE an amount equivalent to
SDR 5,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit on lent by the
Borrower to BIDCO; (ii) making available to GUYMINE, an amount
equivalent to SDR 1, 600, 000 out of the proceeds of the BIDCO Capital
Contribution, as equity capital contribution to GUY14INE; and
(b)   BIDCO shall exercise its rights under the BIDCO Sub-
sidiary Agreement and the GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement in such a
manner so as to protect the interests of BIDCO, the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the BIDCO Subsidiary Agreement or the
GUYMINE Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. '
Section 4.02. BIDCO shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, management
and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 4.03. BIDCO shall at all times operate and maintain
its offices, buildings and equipment in respect of the bauxite
industry, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
administrative, management and financial practices.
Section 4.04. BIDCO shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. BIDCO as the sole shareholder of GUYMINE
undertakes to provide GUYMINE all the financial and other resources
required by GUYMINE to carry out the Project and carry out all of
the obligations of GUYMINE set forth in this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 4.06. (a) BIDCO shall maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition and the resources
and expenditures of BIDCO in respect of the Project.
(b)   BIDCO shall, in respect of the Project:
(i)   have its accounts, including reimbursements from
the Special Account, and its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, BIDCO shall:
(i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report thereof
contains, in respect of such separate accounts,
a separate opinion by the said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BIDCO and GUYMINE thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agre nent terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association   .11 promptly notify BIDCO
and GUYMINE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been dully given or made
when it shall he delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For BIDCO:
Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
71 Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:                Telex:
BIDCO                     GY 2244
Georgetown, Guyana


﻿-9-
For GUYMINE:
Guyana Mining Enterprises Ltd.
Mackenzie Linden,
Guyana
Cable address:                Telex:
GUYMINE                       GY 2245
Mackenzie Linden, Guyana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BIDCO may be taken or executed by the Chair-
man of BIDCO or such other person or persons as the Chairman of
BIDCO shall designate in writing, and BIDCO shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
agreement on behalf of GUNMINE may be taken or executed by the Chief
Executive Officer of GUYMINE or such other person or persons as the
Chief Executive Officer of GUYMINE shall designate in writing, and
GUYMINE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to he
signed in their respective names in the district of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
B4y              Regional Vice President
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean
BAUXITE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD.
BY
Authorized Representative
GUYANA MINING ENTERPRISE LTD.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall he grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Guyana may be
granted a 15% margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.59 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    For contracts, or groups of contracts, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 to $300,000, goods may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
list of at least four qualified suppliers from at least three coun-
tries eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the pro-
cedures set forth in Sections I and II of such Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    (a)   Goods other than thosi referred to in (b) below, esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit not exceeding the equivalent of $2,300,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison
of bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿-12-
(b)   Proprietary items for the pilot plant included under
Part A.2 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit not exceeding $100,000, may be
acquired through direct contracting.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   Wih respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modifieC. to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be fur-
nished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished.
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 (the Special Account Schedule)
to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.   Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Sections 3.01 (c) (ii) and 4.06 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist GUYMINE and BIDCO in carrying out the
Project, GUYMINE and BIDCO shall employ consultants whose


﻿- 13 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the Zoregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


