CREDIT NUMBER 1729 GUA
Agreement Dated                           , 1992
Amending the Development Credit
Agreement
(Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project)
between
GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TERMINATING
THE PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BAUXITE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD.
and
GUYANA MINING ENTERPRISE LTD.,
both dated July 16, 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1729 GUA
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT AND
TERMINATING PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1992, between GUYANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION     (the
Association), and BAUXITE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD. (BIDCO)
and GUYANA MINING ENTERPRISE LTD. (GUYMINE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated
July 16, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has made
a credit (hereinafter called the Credit), in an amount n various
currencies equiva.lent to six million and six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000) for the purposes of assisting
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B)   by the Project Agreement dated July 16, 1990, between
the Association and BIDCO and GUYMINE (hereinafter called the
Pr'ject Agreement), BIDCO and GUYMINE agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in said Agreement with respect to the Project;
(C)   the Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE have requested the
Association a substantial modification of the Project in order to
enable the Borrower to carry out the initial phase of the
privatization process of its bauxite industry;
(D)   the Borrower has delivered    to the Association a
statement, dated December 3, 1992, (the Policy Statement) describing
the policies it intends to follow in the privatization of its
bauxite industry; and
(E)   the Association agrees with the proposed modifications;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The Preamble of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby amended by:


﻿-2-
(a)  deleting the Whereas clauses (A) and (C) and redesignat-
ing the Wherea; clause (B) as Whereas clause (A);
(b)   adding the following new Whereas clauses (B), (C), (D)
and (E) to read as follows:
"(B) the Borrower has delivered to the Association a
statement, dated December 3, 1991 (the Policy Statement),
describing the policies and actions to be followed in the
privatization of its bauxite industry;"
"(C)   the Borrower has requested from the European
Investment Bank (the EIB) a loan in an amount equivalent to
at least six million dollars to assist in financing the
Project on terms and conditions to be set forth in the
agreement to be entered between the Borrower and the EIB
(hereinafter called the EIB Loan);"
"(D) the Borrower has obtained from the European
Economic Community (the EEC) a credit in an amount equivalent
to ECU 3,500,000, to assist the Borrower in the rehabilitation
of the bauxite industry in Guyana (the EEC Loan) on the terms
and conditions set forth in the financing contract dated
March 21, 1990 between the Borrower and the EEC (hereinafter
the EEC Financing Agreement;"
"(E) it has been agreed between the Borrower and the
EEC that an amount equivalent to at least $5,000,000 from the
EEC Loan shall be allocated to finance the execution of the
Project;" and
(c)    by adding a full stop after the word "Agreement", and
deleting the following sentence from the second Whereas clause:
", and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and BIDCO and GUYMINE;
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby amended by:
(a)   rewording paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) as follows:
"(c) 'Linden Operation' means the bauxite mining and
processing operation located in Linden, Guyana, which includes
open pit mines, a processing plant and power facilities;


﻿3-
(d)   'Linden Operation Accounts' means the banking
accounts referred to as Linden Operations Account I and Linden
Operation Account II in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(e)   'Management Service Contract' means the agreement,
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement, to be
entered into between BIDCO and the Management Firm; and
(f)   'Management Firm' means the engineering, mining
or management firm party to the Management Service Contract.";
and
(b)   deleting paragraphs (g), (h), (i) and (j).
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement is hereby deleted and Section 2.02 (a) is redesignated as
Section 2.02.
Section 1.04, In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement, the date "June 30, 1993" is replaced by "December 31,
1993".
Section 1.05. Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, and to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, shall: (i) carry out or cause BIDCO to carry out
the Project in accordance with the Policy Statement and with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, industrial, managerial and administrative
practices; and (ii) take, or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BIDCO to
carry out the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to BIDCO, on a grant basis.
(c)   Without limitation or restriction to the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall, for
purposes of the carrying out of Part A of the Project, cause
BIDCO: (i) to enter into a contract, under terms and con-


﻿-4-
ditions satisfactory to the Association (the Management
Service Contract), with a mining, engineering or management
firm (the Management Firm), selected in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreements,
such Contract to provide, inter alia, for: (A) the delegation
of all management responsibilities for the Linden Operation
to the Management Firm; (B) the obligation of the Management
Firm to assist BIDCO in the carrying out of Part A of the
Project and to perform all the obligations in respect of the
Linden Operation required in this Agreement to be performed
byv the Management Firm; and (C) specific monitorable targets
to be attained by the Management Firm in performing the basic
restructuring tasks included in its terms of reference; and
(ii) to exercise its rights under such Contract in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, cause BIDCO
not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive, or fail to enforce,
the Management Service Contract.
(d)   Without  limitation   or  restriction   to  the
provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall open
and maintain, or cause to be opened and maintained, in a bank
or banks acceptable to the Association, two accounts: (i) one
in dollars (the Linden Operation Account I); and (ii) one in
Guyana dollars (the Linden Operation Account II) to be
operated by the Management Firm for the purposes of: (A)
depositing into such accounts all operational and non-
operational revenues related to the Linden Operation and all
proceeds from financing obtained by the Borrower for purposes
of Part A of the Project; and (B) paying out of such accounts
all operational and capital expenditures related to the Linden
Operation's day-to-day operations and the investments included
in Part A of the Project, as well as the liabilities referred
to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement."
Section 1.06. Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, and shall cause BIDCO
and GUYMINE to, relinquish all management responsibilities in
respect of the Linden Operation and to assign to the
Management Firm full responsibility and autonomy for the
management of the Linden Operation, including taking and
causing to be taken all actions to ensure that the Linden


﻿-5-
Operation is administered as an independent business totally
separate from BIDCO's and GUYMINE's operations."
Section 1.07. Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than May
1, 1992, establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the
execution   of   the  Project,   a   committee   comprising
representatives from the Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE, to be
responsible for: (a) monitoring progress in the carrying out
of the activities under Part A of the Project; (b) reviewing
and approving all plans and operating and capital expenditure
budgets for the execution of Part A of the Project; and (c)
facilitating communications between the Borrower and the
Management Firm on any matters relating to the execution of
Part A of the Project and the management of the Linden
Operation.
Section 1.08. The following new Section 3.06 is added to the
Development Credit Agreement:
"Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions
of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, not later than
November 1, 1992, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on the status of execution of the Project, and the
operational and financial performance and condition of the
Linden Operation.
(b)  Not later than 15 days prior to such exchange of
v',ews, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project and the operational and financial performance and
conditions of the Linden Operation."
Section 1.09. Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BIDCO: (i)
to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the resources
and expenditures of BIDCO in respect of the Project; and (ii)
to cause the Management Firm, pursuant to the Management
Service Contract: (A) to maintain records and separate
0]


﻿-6-
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of the Linden Operation as a separate and independent entity;
(B) to send to the Association every quarter during the
execution of the Project, starting on June 30, 1992, quarterly
income statements for the Linden Operation and quarterly
statements of the Linden Operation Accounts; and (C) to issue
financial statements (balance sheet, statement of income and
expenses and related statements) reflecting the Linden
Operation's  financial   position  and   progress   in  the
implementation of the financial objectives of Part A of the
Project: (1) not later than February 28, 1993, with respect
to Fiscal Year 1992; and (2) not later than two months after
the end of the Management Service Contract, with respect to
the period from January 1, 1993 to the end of such Contract.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BIDCO:
(i)   to have the records and accounts referred
to in paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) (A)
above for each fiscal year and the financial
statements referred to in paragraph (a) (ii)
(C) above audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association;
(ii)   to furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited; and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)   to furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than
April 30, 1993, in the case of the financial
statements referred to in paragraph (a) (ii)
(C) (1) above, and not later than two months
after the issuance of the financial state-
ments referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) (C)
(2) above: (A) certified copies of such
financial statements as to audited; and (B)


﻿-7-
the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iv)   to furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof
and said records, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For  all  expenditures with   respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause BIDCO:
(i)   to maintain, and cause the Management Firm
to maintain in respect of the Linden
Operation, in accordance with paragraph (a)
of this Section, separate records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   to retain, and cause the Management Firm to
retain in respect of the Linden Operation,
until at least one year after the completion
of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices,   bills,  receipts   and   other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   to enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records; and
(iv)   to ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
the reports thereof contain, in respect of
such separate accounts, a separate opinion
by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect
of such expenditures have been vaed for the
purpose for which they were provided."
Section 1.10. The following new Section 4.02 is inserted in
Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement:


﻿-8-
"Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall assume and set
the Linden Operation free from, or shall indemnify and hold
harmless the Linden Operation from, all liabilities incurred
and liens created by BIDCO and GUYMINE in respect of the
Linden Operation, except: (i) those liabilities and liens
resulting from indebtedness incurred to finance clearly
identifiable assets which are part of the Linden Operation;
and (ii) current liabilities corresponding to items essential
for the future carrying out of the Linden Operation and which
can be borne by the Linden Operation without endangering the
overall objective of attaining the Linden Operation's
viability in the medium term.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
assist the Linden Operation to cover its operational costs
and, as part of the foregoing, shall make available, promptly
as needed and on terms and amounts satisfactory to the
Association, the funds required to meet such operational costs
if the ratio of current assets to current liabilities of the
Linden Operation in any three consecutive months is below one;
provided, however, that the funds made available to the Linden
Operation pursuant to this Section may be limited by the
Borrower to an aggregate equivalent to $2,700,000.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The term "current assets" means cash, all
assets which could in the ordinary course
of business be converted into cash within
twelve    months,    including    accounts
receivable,    marketable     securities,
inventories and prepaid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the
next fiscal year.
(ii)   The term "current liabilities" means all
liabilities which will become due and
payable or could under circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve
months, including accounts payable, customer
advances, debt service requirements, taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes, and
dividends.


﻿-9-
(iii)   The term "debt service requirements" means
the aggregate amount of repayments of, and
interests and other charges on, debt.
(iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section
it shall be necessary to value, in terms of
the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association."
Section 1.11. Section 5.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a)   the Borrower or any    other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of BIDCO or for the suspension of its
operations;
(b)   the Management Firm shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Management Service Contract;
(c)   the Agreement providing for the EIB Loan shall
have failed to become effective by February 28, 1993, or such
later date as the Association may agree; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(d)   (i)   Subject  to  subparagraph  (ii)  of  this
paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw
the proceeds of any loan or grant made


﻿- 10 -
to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project (including the EIB Loan
and the EEC Loan) shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing
therefor (including the EEC Financing
Agreement); or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, ter-
mination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(B)   adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement."
Section 1.12. Section 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby amended by:
(a)   substituting paragraph (b) by the following:
"(b) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur."
(b)   adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows:
"(c)  the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section."


﻿- 11 -
Section 1.13. Sections 6.01, 6.02 and 6.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement are hereby deleted and Section 6.04 is renumbered
as Section 6.01.
S-ction 1.14. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is hereby deleted and substituted by
the following:
"Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods (other than                          100% of foreign
petroleum products)          800,000        expenditures
(2) Consultants'                               100% of foreign
services                   2,200,000       expenditures
(3) Petroleum products        3,600,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
Total                SDR 6,600,000
If
Section 1.15. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted and substituted by the following:
"Schedule 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
privatization of its bauxite industry by seeking the rehabilitation
of the industry and ensuring its economic and financial viability.
Such privatization process shall be carried out in two phases: (a)
an initial restructuring phase aimed at restoring the commercial
viability of the Linden Operation; and (b) a rehabilitation and
privatization phase aimed at divesting the control of the Linden
Operation and carrying out a comprehensive investment program to
ensure its long-term viability.


﻿- 12 -
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Initial Restructuring Phase
Initial steps required to put the Linden Operation in a viable
commercial position, including, inter alia:
(a) operation and restoration of the Linden Operation to an
annual production capacity level of at least 400,000 tons of
calcined bauxite within a reasonable specified production cost per
unit;
(b) rehabilitation of the stripping, mining, railways, bauxite
plant and miscellaneous equipment of the Linden Operation;
(c) financial restructuring through renegotiation of the
existing debt with suppliers and financing of permanent working
capital required to ensure the medium term financial viability of
the Linden Operation;
(d)   labor rationalization  including: (i) reduction and
reallocation of personnel working in the Linden Operation so as to
ensure a more efficient operation; and (ii) development of an
appropriate compensation policy; and
(e) preparation of the legal and administrative work required
to establish a new corporation in charge of the Linden Operation,
including the establishment of adequate inventories of assets and
liabilities and the establishment and updating of adequate records
and accounts.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance in the processes of initial
restructuring and privatization of the Linden Operation, including,
inter alia: (a) preparation of terms of reference and performance
incentive schedule for management consultants; (b) the initial
management of the Linden Operation; (c) the establishment of a new
corporation for the management and operation of the Linden
Operation; (d) the carrying out of studies to define the long-term
strategy of the Linden Operation, including an analysis of its
corporate and management strategy, an assessment of its productive
and operational efficiency and an assessment of the environmental


﻿- 13 -
impact of the bauxite mining operations of the Linden Operation; (e)
the formulation of a five-year business plan for the Linden
Operation; (f) the development of a long-term investment rehabili-
tation program for the Linden Operation; and (g) the design and
implementation of the divestiture process.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993."
Section 1.16. Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted and substituted by the following:
"SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, petroleum
products may be procured through organized international commodity
markets, or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to
the Association, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿-14 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.   Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and BIDCO in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall cause BIDCO to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 1981."
Section 1.17. Schedules 4 and 5 of the Development Credit
Agreement are hereby deleted.
ARTICLE II
Termination of the Project Agreement
Section 2.01. The Project Agreement is hereby terminated and
the rights and obligations of the parties thereto shall cease and
determine on the date of effectiveness of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that: (a) the execution and delivery of this
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action, respectively; (b) the Management Service Contract


﻿- 15 -
is in full force and effect; (c) a financing plan, satisfactory to
the Association, for the carrying out of Part A of the Project has
been furnished to the Association and progress, satisfactory to the
Association, has been made in the arrangements to implement such
plan; and (d) the Linden Operation Accounts have been opened and an
initial deposit in the amount of $2,300,000 shall have beei made
into the Linden Operation Account I.
Section 3.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE: (a) that this Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE and is legally binding upon the
Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE in accordance with its terras; and (b)
that the Management Service Contract is in full force and effect.
Section 3.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower, BIDCO and GUYMINE notice of its acceptance of the evidence
required by Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by June , 1992, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association estab-
lishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the
Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been
executed.
ARTICLE IV
Addresses
Section 4.01. The following addresses are specified for
purposes of any notice required or permitted to be given pursuant
to this Agreement:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                  Telex:
MINFIN                    GY 3038
Georgetown, Guyana
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For BIDCO:
Bauxite Industry Development Company Ltd.
71 Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:                  Telex:
BIDCO                        GY 2244
Georgetown, Guyana
For GUYMINE:
Guyana Mining Enterprises Ltd.
Mackenzie Linden,
Guyana


﻿- 17 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
GUYMINE                     GY 2245
Mackenzie Linden,
Guyana
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and ye-r first above written.
GUYANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BAUXITE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY,
LTD.
By
Authorized Representative
GUYANA MINING ENTERPRISE LTD.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


