Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22524
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28650; TF-21678)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 82.3 MILLION (US$120.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL FUND
December 26, 2001
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pounds (LE)
LEI = US$ 3.44
US$ 3.44 = LE 1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC&T         Accounting, Budgeting, Control, and Treasury
CDA           Community Development Associations
CDP           Community Development Program
CG            Consultative Group
CRS           Catholic Relief Services
DANIDA        The Danish Agency for Development Assistance
DFID          The Department for International Development (UK)
EDP           Enterprise Development Program
ELAS          Egyptian Labor Adjustment Services
ERSAP         Egyptian Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
EU            European Union
FO            Field Officer
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
FS            Financial Service
GALAE         General Authority for Literacy and Adult Education
GIS           Geographical Information System
GOE           Government of Egypt
HR            Human Resources
HRD           Human Resources Development
HRDP          Human Resource Development Program
LAD           Internal Audit Department
LB           Institutional Business
IBD           Institutional Business Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IDP           Institutional Development Program
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LBE           Labor Intensive Engineering
LPQ           Loan Portfolio Quality
M&E           Monitoring & Evaluation
MD            Managing Director
MDR           Multi-Donor Review
MENA          Middle East and North Africa
MFI           Micro Finance Intermediary
MIS           Management Information System
MOSA          Ministry of Social Affairs
MOHP          Ministry of Health and Population



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NFI          New Future Initiative
NGO          Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV          Net Present Value
O&M          Operations & Maintenance
PBDAC        Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PFA          Productive Families Association
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PM           Prime Minister
PMR          Project Management Report
PTR          Priority Targeting Report
PWP          Public Works Program
QAG          Quality Assessment Group
SA           Sponsoring Agency
SEDO         Small Enterprise Development Organization
SES          Small Enterprise Sector
SFD          Social Fund for Development
SLWP         Small-scale Labor Intensive Works Program
SME          Small-Medium Enterprise
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:  Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager/Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Rafika Chaouali
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               25
Annex 8. Public Works Program                                                       26
Annex 9. Community Development Program and Micro-Enterprise Credit Program          29
Annex 10. The Enterprise Development Program                                        34
Annex 11. Human Resources Development Program                                       45
Annex 12. Gender and Environment                                                    48
Annex 13. Financial Management                                                      51



Implementation Completion Report
Arab Republic of Egypt
Second Social Fund
(Credit 2865-EGT, Netherlands Grant No. 21648)
Preface
This is an Implementation Completion report (ICR) for the Second Social Fund Project (SFD II) in Egypt, for
which Credit No. 2865-EGT in the amount of SDR 82.3 million was approved in May 1996, and became
effective on May 28, 1997. In addition, an initial Netherlands Grant (No. 21648) for NGL 17,500,)00
(US$20.0 million equivalent) was provided in the form of joint-financing and disbursed through IDA.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 2001 with no extension of the closing date. The Credit was fully disbursed
as of December 18, 2001, and the amount disbursed under the Netherlands Grant amounted to NGL 26.0
million as of June 30, 2001, leaving an undisbursed amount of NGL 9.0 million and which was disburse(d in
October, 2001. An extension of the Grant was approved to June 30, 2002.
The ICR was prepared by Rafika Chaouali, MNACS, with the assistance of Hisham Waly, Ahmed Aziz
Mohamed, Eileen Sullivan, and contributions from Alaa Hamed, and Qaiser Khan. It was reviewed by
Mahmoud Ayub (Country Director, MNCO3, Cairo), Robert Hindle (Deputy Resident Representative,
MNCA3, Cairo), Aloysius Uche Ordu (Regional Quality Adviser, MNACS), Mario A. Zelaya
(Implementation Specialist, MNSHD), David Steel (Social Protection Cluster Leader for Egypt, MNSHD),
and Yasser El Gammal.
This report is based on the ICR mission which took place in Egypt from August 19-30, 2001, conducted by
Rafika Chaouali, and information from the project files. The ICR mission included site visits to Quena, and
Aswan governorates. The Borrower prepared a draft evaluation of the project's implementation using the
Bank's ICR format which will be finalized by mid-January 2002. The Borrower provided comments on the
ICR, the Kingdom of Netherlands Representatives (project co-financier) provided comments to the Bank
during the ICR mission.



|Project ID: P043102                                       | Project Name: SOCIAL FUND II
Team Leader: Rafika Chaouli                                TL Unit: MNACS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL FUND II                                         LICITF   IDA-28650; TF-
Number:   21678
Country/Department:  EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                              Region:  Middle East and
North Africa Region
Sector/subsector:  SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    10/31/1995                             Effective:                     05/28/1997
Appraisal:  12/07/1995                                MTR:                         11/30/1998
A pproval:  05/21/1996                              Closing:  06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  | GOVERNMENT/SOCIAL FUND DEVELOPMENT
Other Partners:  The Netherlands
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:      Mahmoud Ayub                               Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:       Jacques Baudouy                            Jacques Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:   Rafika Chaouali                            Qaiser Khan
ICR Primary Author:   Rafika Chaouali; Ahmed Abdel
Aziz Mohamed; Hisham Waly;
Eileen Brainne Sullivan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=IHighly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)     ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to help: (a) create jobs through support of small enterprises and labor intensive works, and
(b) support community infrastructure and services in partnership with NGOs and local groups. These objectives were to
be accomplished by building on the strengths of the first phase of the Social Fund for Development (SFD).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives did not undergo revisions during the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
(a) Small-scale Labor Intensive Works Program (SLWP): The SLWP was to build on the public works program, with
an increased focus on community partnership and targeting. Sub-projects were to continue to be executed by SFI) in
close cooperation with governorates, the local branches of the relevant technical Ministries and the concerned
community.
(b) Community Development Program (CDP): The CDP was to build on the current program and continue to focus on:
(i) community and NGO participation, (ii) capacity building, and (iii) targeting of women, the poor, and the unemployed.
CDP sub-projects was to continue to be executed in partnership with NGOs and the beneficiary communities, with
involvement of local authorities at the planning stage.
(c) Enterprise Development Program (EDP): The EDP has evolved into a credit program providing loans to banks for
on-lending to entrepreneurs and a technical assistance program for entrepreneurs through NGOs. During implementation
of Phase II, the EDP was to be restructured according to a business plan (agreed with IDA) designed to assure long-term
sustainability.
(d) Human Resource Development Program (HRDP): The HRDP was to build on the public enterprise labor mobility
program but to extend its mandate to support labor mobility in private sector companies affected by trade liberalization.
The program was to also provide support, on a matching grant basis, to small enterprises that wished to train their
workers. Grants were to be transparent and would be larger for skills with higher mobility. The labor mobility program
was to be executed in partnership with the enterprise concerned, while training services were to be provided under
contract by the private sector.
(e) Institutional Development Program (IDP):
The IDP was to support the SFD management as well as poverty monitoring and other studies linked to poverty and
social safety nets. During Phase II, decentralization of functions was to increase through transfer of responsibility for
programs to SFD's regional offices when feasible. This was to allow closer association with local Governments than was
the case.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during the course of implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project did not benefit from a Quality at Entry Review at the time of preparation, however, the overall qualily at
entry of project preparation was considered satisfactory. The project benefited from an evaluation conducted by IDA
under the first project based on in-depth field visits, surveys, and data analyses of the SFD and its partners. The second
project was an extension of the first project under the IDA Credit 2276-EGT, to support ongoing activities, and to
improve and strengthen certain areas for better effectiveness and efficiency. While the first Phase of the SFD project
focused on addressing the negative effects of structural adjustment on the vulnerable populations in Egypt through job
creation and poverty alleviation, the second Phase project had a more direct objective of job creation and poverty
alleviation. These remain pressing concerns. Unemployment is high (10% to 21% when adjusted for underemployment).
The age structure of unemployment is also a cause for concern with 70% of the unemployed being 35 years or under.
About 560,000 jobs must be created every year and about 22%-30% of all households are poor, and the number of poor
continues to rise as a result of population growth. The SFD's objectives remain very relevant to the Egyptian socio-
2



economic conditions as well as to the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy. It has evolved from a short term
emergency response instrument to become an important part of the Egyptian social safety net. The Government recently
declared SFD a permanent institution with the broad mandate of employment creation and poverty alleviation throughout
Egypt. Despite its shortcomings, the SFD has proven effective, compared to the public sector, in the area of poverty
alleviation and job creation. It is a quick disbursing mechanism in channeling funds to needy areas in the country and in
improving the standards of living of the most vulnerable, with relatively low overhead costs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The SFD II substantially achieved its overall development objectives and met most of the physical indicators set for the
project. The SFD contributed to job creation in Egypt during Phase II of the project mainly through the support of small
enterprises, community development and labor intensive works programs (see table below). It succeeded in creating
146,200 temporary and 346,746 permanent jobs against a plan of 80,000 temporary and 200,000 permanent jobs. In
addition, the SFD supported community infrastructure and services in partnership with NGOs and local groups.
Outcomes were confirmed by beneficiary assessments carried out during project implementation. The SFD has proven
to be a quick disbursing mechanism showing visible results.
SFD'sjob creation during the period of 01/1997-06/2001
Programs                            Actual # of Temporary jobs Actual # of Permanent jobs
Public Works                                 43,000                    3,100
Community Development                        17,300                   46,000
Enterprise Development SEDO                  85,900                   286,300
Human Resource Development                                             11,346
Institutional Development                      NA                       NA
Total                                        146,200                  346,746
Despite the lack of good quality impact assessments made to date of SFD programs, its limited resources, and the large
umnet social and economic needs in Egypt, it is believed that the SFD has had a favorable social development impact
through its various programs, particularly under the public works and community development programs. A special
supervision mission by IDA, undertaken in June 2000, considered the social development impact of the sub-projects to
be substantial. The SFD has played an important social stabilization role through its outreach activities which has helped
the Government appear more credible in addressing social issues. The SFD has also played an important role in
developing community integrated services from micro and small loans for entrepreneurs, health services in rural areas,
and literacy courses, to the building of small public basic infrastructure such as water supply, waste water disposal,
sanitation improvements, access to roads, etc., that empower communities and improve their standards of living. The
SFD, as an open organization, has played an important role in involving NGOs, banks, universities, and other players by
developing their capacity and developing partnerships in various social development initiatives. In addition, it has had a
positive impact on partner institutions, i.e. local governmental authorities, NGOs, through learning by doing while
preparing and implementing the SFD sub-projects. It has introduced new and different approaches to local development
from those of the central Government, i.e. labor intensive works, work with small contractors, with NGOs, small
entrepreneurs, instituting standardized and transparent procedures of project identification and evaluation, management
and monitoring, and helping communities play a larger role in determining their needs and particularly in managing and
participating in sharing the cost of projects that address their needs. The SFD gender and environment units, in
particular, have done an impressive work in mainstreaming gender and environmental issues throughout the SFD
programs, thus setting high standards for the Government in those areas. In addition, the revised targeting system is
being implemented. Overall, the SFD is considered an efficient and effective institution in comparison to line ministries
in Egypt. It has a low overhead of 3.2% (based on 2000 audit figures) and lower cost per job created or service provided
compared to Phase I. During Phase II, the SFD created 33% more temporary jobs and 38% more permanent jobs with
only 19% more resources compared to Phase I. The SFD disbursed to sub-projects, during Phase II, a total amount of
US$873.6 million. The SFD did not, however: (i) put in place a satisfactory operations and maintenance program that
would ensure sustainability of public works infrastructure and community development projects once these are
completed; nor (ii) complete the transition of the Enterprise Development Program into a financially sustainable
autonomous institution as planned. For details on the transition, see section 4.2 (c) below.
3



4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Small-scale Labor Intensive Works Program (SLWP): Satisfactory.
The SLWP (now known as the Public Works Program (PWP)), created over 43,000 temporary and 3,100 permanent jobs
during Phase II, while improving basic services in rural and low income urban areas. The program financed US$102.5
million against a plan of US$92.0 million representing an increase of about 10% over the original plan. The subprojects
covered various areas such as: extending potable water and wastewater networks, improving irrigation and drainage
channels, constructing rural roads, refurbishing public buildings, cleaning up the environment, landscaping, collecting
solid waste, and providing rural and small urban community sanitation services. The program has matured during Phase
II from a program that was putting in place procedures and piloting new approaches to building small labor intensive
local infrastructure during Phase I, to a professional entity, within the Egyptian context, that has proven to be both
effective and efficient. The strength of the PWP approach is the ability to deliver infrastructure at a reasonable cost
within a set duration, using labor intensive methods and local contracting.
The impact of the PWP, while not fully assessed due to a lack of a sound impact evaluation, is considered important.
PWP has helped: (i) create an enabling environment in the areas of intervention, through the promotion of small
entrepreneurs executing public works, opening up opportunities for O&M work once the project is completed; (ii)
enhance the capacity of local agencies -- governmental, NGOs, and other associations, to manage public works projects,
(iii) institute to some extent, especially over the past couple of years, community participation in determining their needs
and managing projects addressing those needs. The PWP has done so through the collaboration of the Community
Development Program and the adoption of an integrated approach to local development. The PWP has, like the rest of
the SFD programs, mainstreamed gender and environmental issues in its activities.
(b) Community Development Program (CDP): Satisfactory
The objective of this program was to help the poorest communities, giving priority to the most vulnerable. The range of
activities supported by the CDP included: (a) social services such as literacy classes, basic health care services, family
planning, etc.; (b) micro-credit to increase the income of the poor households; and (c) community centers which provide
a base for social services and recreational activities. The program also implemented some stand alone activities to service
the poorest, i.e. craft skills for handicapped men and women. The CDP's focus is on improving the standard of living of
the poorest rather than on job creation. Nonetheless, it has managed to create about 17,300 temporary and 46,000
permanent jobs during Phase II, with about half of the beneficiaries being women. In addition, most of the temporary
jobs were created through the illiteracy eradication activities with women being the main beneficiaries. Some of the
achievements include: 520,000 enrollments in literacy classes, 32,000 micro credits to micro entrepreneurs, close to 110
grants to NGOs for capacity building, and close to 9,000 trained health personnel (see Annex 9 for details).
The CDP projects are much smaller in scale than those of the PWP and more time consuming to develop which explains
the difference between the planned figure (US$208.0 million) and the actual (estimated at about US$115.3 million).
Its overall program expenditure for Phase II amounted to about LE 397.0 million ** (equivalent to about US$115.3
million) of which LE 98.0 million (equivalent to US$28.0 million) was for 150 contracts implemented through NGOs
and the rest of the funds were the subject of 112 contracts with Governmental authorities such as the General Authority
for Literacy and Adult Education (GALAE). Projects implemented by NGOs are small and accounted for about 25% of
the funding, the rest of the activities were implemented by governmental local authorities. The CDP is evaluated as
being much stronger than PWP on community participation, gender issues, strengthening civil society, and producing a
more direct impact on poverty and living standards of poor people.
** Of the total expended amount, LE 17.0 million was for environmental and gender activities.
The Social Fund for Development (SFD) has invested LE 200.0 million (about US$58.0 million) in health and
population related activities at the community level. In implementing these activities, through its regional offices, SFD
aimed at facilitating the process of proposal development by NGOs and local government in meeting the health and
population needs of the communities in their targeted geographic areas. Most of these funds (83.5% for 18 sub-projects)
were channeled through the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) at the national, governmental, and district level
to implement activities for improving women's health, introducing the concept of the Family Health Doctor and
4



Community Nurse, and improving the efficiency of Primary health care units. This approach benefited the MOHP in its
early trials to identify the need for a Health Reform Project. However, this learning exercise was not without cost
(adequate facilities but with low utilization rates, lack of standards and guidelines in service delivery, which led to the
creation of a "parallel reform" program within the MOHP).
Within the CDP's micro-credit program, and as part of the integrated services offered by the SFD, the CDP provided
credit to close to 32,000 borrowers and a loan portfolio of close to LE 100.0 million (about US$29.0 million). The
average loan size was LE 1,400 (between $325 and $410). Close to 50% of borrowers were female micro entrepreneurs.
The program succeeded in reaching very poor people and managed to achieve a balanced gender representation. Micro-
credit is self targeted and has helped improve income generating capabilities of families that had no access to the formal
sector's credit. It is however not sustainable. It does not adhere to internationally recognized best practices in the field of
micro finance. The interest rate applied is well below the market rate. The interest rate from the SFD to the Micro
Finance Intermediaries (MFIs) is at 7%, and from the MFIs to the final borrowers at 8%, thus keeping a spread of 1% for
default risk that is recovered by the SFD when the loan is repaid in full. MFIs are given a grant for operating costs, but
are not allowed to charge their costs to the micro entrepreneurs.
(c) Enterprise Development Program (EDP): Unsatisfactory
The EDP was developed during Phase II into a Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO) and has contributed
largely to the achievement of SFD's development objectives of employment generation. But the agreed five-year
transition into a financially sustainable institution was not achieved, hence this component was rated unsatisfactory
despite substantial achievements. SEDO accounted for about 65% of the total of SFD's expenditures for the period, and
85% of total permanent jobs created and 60% of temporary jobs. The total disbursements to financial intermediaries
amounted to close to US$520.0 million (Note) most of which was financed by reflows. Donors financed US$166.0
million in Phase II, with US$29.0 million from IDA.
Note: The SFD issued a new figure of $538 million as of December, 2001. Given the difficulty to confirm this number
and preserve consistency in this report, the original number of $520 million is being maintained.
SEDO succeeded in widening access to the banking sector for small entrepreneurs, which it helped open up in Phase I. It
achieved major progress during this project in terms of lending, portfolio size, and quality, as well as management and
organization. But its transition remained incomplete in several important respects.
SEDO successfully created 40% more than the planned jobs for Phase II and twice as many as in Phase I. Its
performance improved from year to year, peaking in 2000. It contracted LE 900.0 million or over US$250.0 million
during the year 2000, and created over 112,000 permanent equivalent jobs; hence doubling its prior year's performance.
Through the provision of credit and other business services to close to 100,000 entrepreneurs, SEDO helped create
286,300 permanent and 85,900 temporary jobs, or 315,000 permanent equivalent jobs, for the period of 1997-2001, up
from 144,293 and 43,427 respectively in Phase I (between 1992-1996) or 158,769 permanent equivalent. Female small
entrepreneurs represented 27% of the total entrepreneurs who benefited from SEDO's services during Phase II up from
24% for Phase I. Loans of LE 200,000 or less represent now more than 95% of total SEDO loan portfolio, of which over
70% for loans less than LE 50,000. The loan portfolio covers the main sectors, with 41% in trade activities, 24% in
agro-business, 19% in services, and 16% in industry.
(d) Human Resource Development Program (HRDP): Satisfactory
The HRDP was set up to target the unemployed and/or the potentially unemployed following the introduction of the
Egyptian Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP). The HRDP focused on: (a) training projects for the
unemployed youth; (b) projects geared towards the public enterprise workers made redundant due to privatization
efforts; and (c) studies and capacity-building projects on a national level. The project financed two main components:
Labor Mobility Component which targets early retirement programs (not financed under IDA), financial assistance to
start new businesses, and retraining of redundant workers; and the Small and Medium Enterprise Skills Development
component, which trains workers from those enterprises on a matching subsidy basis, mainly in areas of marketing,
maintenance, quality control, and technical skills.
The HRDP created 11,346 permanent jobs. For the Labor Mobility component, total cost amounted to LE 189.5 million
(equivalent to US$55.0 million) with close to 24,000 beneficiaries, of which about 1,500 workers received training
5



against an estimate of 6,000; and 3,094 workers received assistance for starting a new business against a plan of 6,000.
Most of the negative variances are due to the economic downturn that was not expected at the time of project appraisal.
The retirement plan however exceeded by far the planned figure of 3,000 reaching 20,017 beneficiaries. This was not
financed by IDA. Beneficiaries opted more for the retirement package over retraining or start-up business incentives,
because a job would not have been guaranteed under these programs. The small & medium enterprise skills
development component trained 10,668 small entrepreneurs on market skills. The HRDP did attempt to attract the
private sector in its training endeavors, under its Labor Mobility Program, but the private sector showed no interest in the
program.
HRDP is considered one of the key players in the Egyptian National Human Resource Program. It has been actively
involved at the national HRD policy level through its participation at the Executive Committee of the Supreme Council
for Human Resources Development (HRD). It also implements some of the policies developed through its studies and
capacity-building projects. In addition, HRDP has extensive contacts with public sector companies through its public
enterprise workers' projects. It influences policy in the privatization process through its development of early retirement,
retraining and redeployment methodologies and works closely with the Ministry of Public Enterprises. Its policy of
training only for direct employment in public and private enterprises has involved it in extensive dialogue with the
private sector on skills that are in demand but not available in the labor market. This has developed into additional
dialogue with training centers and has resulted in some highly successful projects which match people, skills and jobs.
The HRDP is currently dependent upon external donors and the Government for the necessary funds to finance its
projects. In the longer term, HRDP is searching for an integrated funding system which guarantees diversification and
sustainability of HRD services. HRDP has already held discussions with Government, employer and worker
representatives and will continue to do so in order to secure such funding.
(e) Institutional Development Program (IDP): Unsatisfactory.
The main focus of the Institutional Development Program (IDP) in Phase II, was to strengthen the SFD management,
and improve monitoring and evaluation of programs, particularly those related to poverty and social safety. In addition,
the program was to help the SFD increase its efforts at decentralization to the regional offices. The SFD's achievements
have been minimal in management policies, M&E, and targeting and hence the unsatisfactory rating of this program.
While the SFD is considered a well managed institution compared to the Egyptian public sector, it has not improved its
management practices since Phase I. It is still very much oriented toward quick disbursement and has not refined much
of its management practices despite various initiatives undertaken to develop and implement the MIS, targeting, financial
and procurement management. These activities remain incomplete and do not, in many respects, effectively support its
operations, i.e. the M&E is not finalized nor is it operational, reporting is weak, the MIS is not fully integrated amongst
programs and the Secretariat, and there is no quick and easy way to access information, i.e. financial summaries are not
comprehensive. With regard to the SFD structure, the evaluation revealed a weak internal control, i.e. weaknesses in the
financial control over operations (Sponsoring Agencies (SAs) reported expenditures), and weaknesses in SFD's internal
audit capacity. The regional offices do not have the capacity needed in areas of financial management and procurement
to provide sufficient oversight of sub-projects and the required training or technical assistance to SAs.
Targeting has been in the design for a long period of time with no tangible results. The missions carried out by the
Association have reiterated at different occasions the need to avoid complex systems and approaches and to adopt a
simple but operational targeting approach. However, to date, the Social Fund is still reviewing proposals and has not yet
started putting in place a targeting methodology.
The Multi-Donor Review report of April 2000 led to an Action Plan approved by the Board of Directors of the Social
Fund and to a Prime Ministerial decision to make the Social Fund a permanent institution based on its performance to
date, as well as to a strengthened oversight role for donors. The Action Plan is under implementation (Mission Statement
and Strategy document are under preparation). The progress is however slow due to the fact that the SFD Board is not
meeting on a regular basis (the Board had not met since February 2001) and a number of issues have yet to be resolved.
6



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SFD project is of a social development nature and as such, its operations are not based on profitability
considerations. NPV, IRR, and FRR are not calculated given the difficulty to estimate all the social and economic
benefits of most of the SFD programs. Moreover, the financial sustainability of SFD's programs is not ensured due to: (i)
the absence of clear commitment to sustainability, i.e market interest rates for the micro and small enterprise lending,
issue of operations and maintenance, and the charging of fees by SFD; and (ii) non payment by the Government of its
financial contribution.
The NPV, IRR, and FRR indicators are, however, important for the Small Enterprise Development Organization. An
attempt by SEDO management to finally determine the profitability of its activities has been made in tables 4.1-4.5 in
Annex 10, provide the calculations. According to their estimation, SEDO is above break-even point and is making a
small profit of 0.39% on its investments. The return on operations is currently estimated at 6.55% exceeding the cost of
operations and funds of SEDO of 6.16%. However, this estimation is not based on market interest rates nor on the
market value of the cost of capital to SEDO. The calculation is based on the easy access to donor funding received thus
far. Any need for cash that will result in local market borrowings is likely to drive the SEDO below break-even level into
negative net income.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As per 4.3. above, SFD's profitability calculation is not possible, it is, however, appropriate for SEDO given its business
orientation. The FRR for the year 2001 was estimated at about 3.26%. The seven year projections also show profitable
operations capable of being sustainable. The FRR is estimated to grow annually and is expected to reach 21% in year
2010 of the annual incremental investments.
Despite its positive FRR, SEDO does not consider local borrowings in its calculation due to the current country cash-
crunch and their belief that local market borrowings are and will be too costly to consider. Should SEDO resort to the
local market, it would be difficult to keep its current and projected levels of profitability that is based mainly on easy
access to cheap donor funding, initial capital transfer from SFD, and loan reflows. Unless SEDO starts applying market
based interest rates and charges fees for its various services with the adoption of well targeted subsidies (only to the
needy), it would be unable to meet the market's increasing needs, its expanded mandate under the SFD's umbrella, and
the financial sustainability of its operations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
SFD's institutional development is considered marginally satisfactory for the following reasons: reduced autonomy of
SFD; lack of financial sustainability considerations in their operations; the on-going changes in the management
structure as a result of the retirement of senior staff; absence of continuity, and management deficiencies (financial
issues, MIS not fully developed and integrated, and targeting still not in place).
At the level of Sponsoring Agencies: Despite its efforts in building capacity at local Government level and NGOs,
through the institution of transparent procedures for project preparation and management, training of staff, grant funding
of operating costs, etc. These efforts were not accompanied by Government policy changes that would institutionalize
the achievements attained such as: governmental agencies working with NGOs, small contractors, and communities.
Also, Government failed to introduce changes in policies and regulations related to the financing of O&M operations to
ensure the sustainability of the sub-projects.
At the level of the sub-contractors: without the catalytic support of the SFD, it would be highly unlikely for the local
governments to work with sub-contractors, and the same could be expected if the SFD were to evolve into a public sector
institution under the Government rules and administrative procedures.
At the level of the Communities: their participation was limited to a certain extent to project implementation. They
were not consistently involved in the process of project identification, design, and overall implementation, and therefore
the continuity of community participation will depend on how much the project management will be improved during
implementation of Phase III.
At the level of the sustainability of the SEDO, this depends on finalizing its autonomy and separation from the SFD,
applying marked -based principles, etc.
7



All of the institutional development issues raised above, except for those of SEDO, are achievements to be reached
during Phase III of the Social Fund, financed by IDA (bridging phase). It should be noted that SEDO is no longer
supported by IDA under Phase III. The sustainability of SFD is even more important now that it is responsible for paying
back its loans and credits. Not only does the SFD face higher cost of funds in the local market, but also has, according to
a Government decision, the responsibility to pay back its debts (including IDA credits) with the same terms. The SFD is
no longer subsidized by the Government.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although the SFD developed an operations and maintenance strategy for public works infrastructure to ensure its
sustainability and succeeded in mobilizing resources from implementing entities and communities, the proposed strategy
remains on paper and SFD's Operations and Maintenance measures remain in a deadlock situation, due primarilv to
Government regulations prohibiting public sector entities from retaining revenues collected. The Government, by
working through the Social Fund, and taking on this new mechanism of service delivery to the communities,
acknowledges the efficiency and quick response aspect of this approach to development. However, a number of
accompanying institutional and financial reforms need to be undertaken to allow this approach to derive maximum
benefits. Reforming the regulations and procedures related to financing, managing, and delivering such programs by
involving local communities and other local partners is a prerequisite to the success of this approach. Community
participation and local resource mobilization for the purposes of operations and maintenance, would ensure their
ownership of the projects and would increase the prospects for their sustainability.
The Government's share of funding of the second phase of the Social Fund has not been forthcoming. Only LE 30.0
million out of the LE 400.0 million pledged by the Government was received by the SFD. This jeopardizes the financial
sustainability of the institution especially now that it was recently declared a permanent institution, and sends a
contradictory message about the Government's commitment to the social fund.
SFD's managerial autonomy, in terms of decision making, procurement and disbursements, that was once one of the
major factors behind its success (and a special feature of SFD distinguishing it from line ministries), is now being
curtailed, placing it at high risk. Because of the restrictions imposed on its payment authorization, the SFD operations
have been substantially delayed over the past six to eight months. SFD's managerial autonomy needs to be reinstated as
soon as possible before the slowdown causes a significant impact on its performance.
The Government has not allowed the SFD to adopt market based interest rates for SEDO and the micro credit program.
This again jeopardizes the program's sustainability.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The transition of the SEDO into a financially sustainable institution has been hampered by internal SFD management
decisions, i.e. delays in transfer of assets and completion of the separation from SFD, presenting SEDO's board of
directors' formation, statutes and procedures to the SFD's Board for approval, adoption of market based interest rate, and
finalization of SEDO's organizational structure.
SFD has been reluctant to apply best practice principles for the micro credit activities under the CDP, in particular with
regard to repeat loans, and charging of market-based interest rates that allow the recovery of full costs of operations.
Even though the SFD has just embarked on a number of models on a pilot basis to experiment with the best practice
principles, the micro credit programs that it has funded since its creation are far from being sustainable.
There is a general lack of baseline monitorable indicators before the undertaking of activities, against which output can
be compared as well as a lack of quality impact assessments. Such a situation has prevented the SFD from having a
better understanding of the impact of its programs in meeting beneficiary needs and improving standards of living, as
well as implementing better targeting in the pursuit of its expanded role in poverty alleviation.
8



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The principal outcome of job-creation has been more than reached as shown in the table below.
Actual Job Creation Benefits Over Benefits Expected at Appraisal
Total   Actual    Plan    Actual    Planned   Planned     Actual    Actual
Amount Amount       IDA     IDA      Temp.       Perm.     Temp.     Perm.
Plan at   Disb   Amount Amount       Jobs in    Jobs in    Jobs in   Jobs in
Appr.    (US$     (US$     Disb.    Person-    Person-    Person-   Person-
(US$     Mln)     Mln)     (US$     Years      Years      Years     Years
Mln)                       Mln)
Public Works Program (PWP)    92.0     102.5     25.0    23.8                           43,000    3,100
Comrnunity Development       208.0     115.3     50.0    44.0                           17,300   46,000
Program (CDP)
Small Enterprise Development  354.0   520.0      30.0    29.0                           85,900  286,300
Organization (SEDO) 1/ 
Human Resources                80.0    80.0      15.0     14.0                               0   11,346
Development Program
(HRDP)
Institutional Development     41.0     55.8      NA       NA                               NA       NA
Program (IDP)
TOTAL                        775.0    873.6     120.0   110.8     80,000    2000001    146,200  346,746
Difference of Actual over              1.3%             -7.7%                            82.8%c 73.4%
Planned                   I
I/A total of US$520.0 million was disbursed by SEDO to SAs, consisting mainly of reflows, of which total donorfinancing
amounted to US$166 million, out of which US$29 million was disbursed by IDA. For the purpose of economic analysis, the
total amount is more relevant than the net amount disbursed by donors because it is the total amount which has the major
impact on job creation which is the main objective of the project.
* Figures are based on the Borrower's December 2001 input (except those for SEDO which are maintained following the
ICR mission).
In terms of job-creation the project has achieved 82.8% more than appraisal estimates in terms of person-years of
temporary jobs and 73.4% more in terms of the number of permanent jobs. This has been at a cost of only 1.3% more
than the appraisal estimate. The permanence of some of the permanent jobs created under SEDO can be questioned,
nevertheless, the economic returns to the project in terms of job creation seems to have far exceeded appraisal estimates.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unsatisfactory. Despite the Government's latest decision to make the Social Fund a permanent institution with the main
objectives of poverty alleviation and job creation, its sustainability remains at risk. The two major sustainability related
milestones agreed upon during appraisal were not achieved. These are the operations and maintenance of public works
subprojects, and the institutional and financial sustainability of the SEDO. In addition, sustainability of other programs
has had very little attention from the part of the SFD. The institutional and financial sustainability of the SFD as a whole
is also at stake given the recent developments of restricting the SFD's autonomy and the lack of Government financial
contribution to the SFD.
The SFD's financial and institutional sustainability. Despite the SFD's experience over a decade of operational work,
and the recent decision to make the SFD a permanent institution by the Government, the SFD continues to be heavily
reliant on donor funding and requirements. The SFD's financial sustainability is considered at risk. The Government of
Egypt's financial contribution to the SFD in Phase II fell seriously short of expectations. While the SFD cannot have all
of its programs self sustainable, few can achieve sustainability, thus resulting in a burden on SFD resources. This is the
case for SEDO and the micro-credit program under the CDP. However, as previously reported, the SFD does not apply
9



market interest rates to its small- and micro-credit programs, does not charge fees on its services when feasible, and does
not apply subsidies selectively as in the case of SEDO loans.
The institutional sustainability of the SFD, particularly with regard to its operational autonomy, is being compromised.
The SFD's past autonomy helped boost its performance over the past decade, but the institution is now at risk given
various Government decisions (i.e. to limit management payment authorization to very low ceilings, and to institute
payment control procedures performed by the external auditor). The SFD's autonomy is also affected by ad hoc
decisions to implement programs not previously within its mandate, such as the decision to build 1000 health clinics.
In addition, the quality of the implementation of the MIS, targeting, internal control (internal audit, financial con:rol,
financial and procurement procedures dissemination and use by sub-projects, etc...) remain less than fully satisfactory,
despite the fact that the implementation of many of these activities was an effectiveness condition for the Third Social
Fund project. The ICR mission raised a number of internal control issues and SFD needs to take prompt action to address
them.
The management of the SFD has been characterized by an overall lack of continuity and consistency. The ICR mission
was informed by the Managing Director that the SFD structure is under review towards the implementation of a
reorganization. The proposed reorganization would revert SEDO back to the SFD as a program that would be operated as
an affiliate of SFD (probably subsidizing other departments), and would group the MIS, finance, and personnel
departments under SFD for all programs including SEDO. This reorganization would likely take the SFD a step
backward and is against what has been achieved so far. The reorganization does not follow what was agreed upon with
the Association under the Second and Third Social Fund Projects, and has no clear purpose.
Following the Multi-Donor Review meeting of January-February, 2000 and the development and approval of the related
action plan, implementation remains very slow. The mission acknowledged that this is due to the latest parliamentary
and public scrutiny that the SFD faced over the last year, however, the process needs to be revitalized.
Finally, donors have been inconsistent in their demands on the SFD and continue to pull it in different directions. [his
occurs despite various donor group and consultation meetings. Donor actions and interests remain uncoordinated and
diverging in many respects. This has contributed to implementation delays in many instances and has provided the SFD
with an argument to delay actions such as the SEDO transition (differences of opinions between the EU on one hand, and
IDA and KfW on the other, particularly on the mechanisms to support small enterprises, despite earlier agreements
during the joint preparation of the Phase II project and the related feasibility study), or the undertaking of actions that
were not agreed upon, such as the reorganization (currently being supported by the EU). Some donors (Dutch) argue
about the validity for a Social Fund as a mechanism to channel extra budgetary funds to community projects, in addition
to line ministries, andlor the absence of coordination and capacity building by the SFD of line ministries.
Sustainability of SEDO
Despite the extraordinary operational performance by SEDO, its transition into an autonomous sustainable institution has
seen little progress since June, 2000, and has not been completed. In December, 1999, the Government issued a decree
establishing SEDO as a separate body from the SFD. Despite its lack of clarity with regard to SEDO's autonomy as a
financial institution, the decree was considered a positive step towards the establishment of the institution. A number of
outstanding issues remained unclear and were to be addressed by the Statutes, specifically the nature, operations, and
financial autonomy of SEDO. These were: (i) the legal form of SEDO (SEDO could initially be 100% owned by the
SFD); (ii) transfer of assets from the SFD to SEDO; (iii) the option of allowing the SFD to sell over time, and as and
when it chooses, its shares in the subsidiary to the private sector; (iv) the subsidiary to have its own board of directors
with private sector and banking sector membership that could be chaired by the Managing Director of the SFD; (v) the
subsidiary to have its own budget, books of accounts and accounting systems, policies, regulations, and procedures, that
are approved by its own board of directors, and (vi) the ability of the subsidiary to take on liabilities (independently of
SFD) from local financial market, donors, etc.
The multi-donor review also recommended the speedy completion of the transition of SEDO into a financially
sustainable and autonomous institution. The review of the status of the SEDO transition showed that there was not much
progress achieved since June, 2000. The transfer of assets from SFD to SEDO did not take place in full. The SFD
10



transferred only LE 15.0 million out of the LE 303.0 million cash in hands it owes to SEDO. In 2000, SEDO drafted,
with the help of an international consulting firm, its statutes, procedures manual and submitted them for SFD's Board
approval. To date there has been no approval.
The operational achievements of SEDO for the year 2000 have not been maintained during the first half of 2001, despite
the existing high demand on their services by the banks for quick disbursements. Not only was the transition process
brought to a standstill, but SEDO's organizational achievements that have contributed to the performance of the year
2000, have been reversed (i.e. the financial authorization, personnel decisions are now being made by the SFD
management and not by SEDO). The institution of additional unneeded layers by SFD's financial management in
reviewing requests for disbursements and payments of expenditures has dramatically slowed down SEDO operations.
Moreover, the SFD has been slow and unresponsive to SEDO's disbursement requests to disburse in its turn to its partner
banks and honor its contractual agreements. The ICR mission was informed that a restructuring of the SFD is to take
place, supported by the EU which considers, among other things, the grouping of the support functions (MIS, HR, and
ABC&T) - a restructuring in which SEDO would remain under SFD's management, most likely as it used to be, a
program/department like the rest of the programs/departments, and sustainability will be looked at from the point of view
of the SFD as a whole with cross subsidization among programs. The grouping of SEDO's Field Officers (FOs) under
SFD's regional offices would be counterproductive to SEDO's business, as SEDO's FOs have been trained in small
entrepreneur monitoring and credit follow-up and can only be supervised properly by SEDO's Financial Services (FS)
and Business Services (BS) departments.
Sustainability of the sub-projects. Sustainability of sub-projects is affected by two types of issues. First, SFD's
management practices, for example, in the case of small- and micro-enterprise credit programs, where SFD does not
adhere to best practice. Second, at the level of mechanisms to be adopted to ensure the sustainability of the sub-projects.
The sustainability of the micro-credit program under the CDP is an issue. Currently the credits extended by the SFD do
not allow for full cost-recovery. This is due to below market interest rates charged to the final borrowers, to the fact that
the SFD does not allow NGOs to charge fees and or higher interest rates to recover their costs and maintain their capital,
and to the lack of use of best practice by the financial intermediaries. Four models are currently under experimentation
by CDP using best practices in the area of microfinance including charging market-based interest rates allowing the
recovery of full costs. The pilot program just started and the results have yet to be evaluated. The same occurs with the
SEDO activities. SEDO does not allow banks to charge market-based interest rates when in fact they are assuming the
risk.
The sustainability of SEDO's borrowers' businesses is currently dependent on close monitoring and follow-up by SEDO's
business service FOs. It is not feasible nor recommended to ask SEDO to increase its monitoring capacity (FOs) to meet
all its borrowers' needs, including potential market demand in the future. This is a function that should be performed by
the banks themselves. Until the Financial Intermediaries (FIs) have the resources and motivation to do so, the
sustainability of small entrepreneur businesses is largely dependent on individual entrepreneur efforts and management
skills.
Most of the infrastructure built and community sub-projects are not sustainable given the absence of funding and the
implementation of a proper mechanism to ensure the sustainability of the operations and maintenance of these sub-
projects. As outlined in previous sections, the Ministry of Finance regulations do not allow local government agencies to
retain any revenue, including that coming from users fees, for O&M operations.
Finally the sustainability of the health component is also at stake given that the outputs are most of the time not fully
appropriate to the situations and/or do not fit within an overall national health reform program. For this to be sustainable
and effective, SFD's health activities should be reviewed to complement what is in place and work in collaboration with
the MOHP. The SFD should be involved and informed about the developments in the health and population policy by
MOHP and try to find its niche within this policy as a partner in development. It should build the capacity of the NGOs
to strengthen their work with district level management and public health facilities so that they are more responsive to
community needs, building the supervisory role of the communities on public facilities, and improving the conditions of
the health workers in their communities to be able to attract them to serve remote areas and in order to teach them how to
serve the communities better within the standards and guidelines of service delivery and the protocols of treatment
11



developed by the MOHP. They should take the lead in involving the community in the health facilities and monitoring
the status of the risk groups at the household level.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Social Fund Board approved an Action Plan to implement the recommendations of the Multi-Donor Review (MDR)
in September, 2000. The SFD has begun implementation by producing a revised Mission Statement, now under
discussion with the donors and Govemment, and is preparing a revised Strategy Document. The implementation of the
action plan has been very slow.
The most recent events affecting the SFD make the situation more obscure with regard to timing and transition
arrangements:
*   A large number of senior staff were asked to resign as of September, 2001, which creates a void in the daily
management of SFD that needs to be filled with adequate capacity as soon as possible.
*   The plan for the autonomy and full separation of SEDO from the SFD, while presented to KfW, is expected
to be finalized before the end of 2001, this, however, has not yet been shared with IDA.
*   The Prime Minister's decision to transform the Social Fund into a permanent institution is undefined as far
as the status of the SFD as an autonomous institution.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
A first Phase of the Social Fund was under implementation when it was agreed to finance a second Phase. Therefore, the
project was prepared on a fast track with one identification/preparation, and one pre-appraisal/appraisal mission. It was
mainly the continuation of the first Phase of the SFD. The agreement with the Government and the SFD to transform the
Enterprise Development Program into an autonomous and financially sustainable Small Enterprise Development
Organization (SEDO) in the second phase necessitated the services of a private sector development specialist. In
addition, the team was multi-sectoral and focused on specific issues, with the aim of bringing about main policy and
organizational changes to the SFD to better respond to its mandate. At the appraisal stage, the first SFD's ICR was being
prepared, and lessons learnt were fedback into the second Phase project leading to a well prepared/appraised fast track
project.
7.2 Supervision:
The Association carried out six official missions to Egypt to supervise the project. In addition to those missions, regular
specialized visits were undertaken by the Financial specialists to work with the SFD on the implementation of SEDO,
and the phases necessary towards autonomy. The team on SEDO spent a lot of effort and time to bring this component
to fruition. It should be noted that the supervision missions benefited from the services of specialists in the fields of
social development, monitoring and impact evaluation, environment, and gender. The supervision efforts were also
greatly complemented by the Resident Team in the World Bank Office in Cairo (economist, financial management
specialist, and procurement specialist), who provided continuous supervision. Towards the last year of implementation,
the Association attempted to redirect the efforts being carried out for the development of the SFD's MIS which was
being developed in-house, by financing an expert assistance to provide advice in this endeavor. However, the work was
not completed as of the date of the ICR mission. Another donor has intervened and the work done by the SFD on this
matter has yet to be evaluated. One important aspect of project supervision was the Mid-Term Task Force Review which
took place in January-February 2000. The task force identified a set of issues that were agreed by all donors and the
Government. This review reflected new efforts to provide substantive and coordinated donor supervision. An action plan
was produced in March, 2000 and approved by the SFD Board of Directors, which provides for a long-term change
agenda.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Association was satisfactory.
12



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was fully satisfactory during project preparation. The SFD had prepared the documents
needed for preparation/appraisal, with a concise plan on the objectives of the project (reduction of public works,
development of the Enterprise Development Program, increase in community development programs, etc.). As this was
a follow-on project, and in the presence of the first project's ICR results, the dialogue went smoothly, and the project was
prepared on a fast track.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance was initially satisfactory but deteriorated over time. This was principally due to: (a) the
Government of Egypt's inadequate financial contribution to the Social Fund; (b) the unrealistic demands in terms of
poverty alleviation and employment goals placed on the Social Fund by the Government; (c) the delays in the reform of
the Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO), which jeopardizes its financial sustainability, and (d) the recent
management and financial controls placed on the Social Fund by the Government in response to Parliamentary and
public criticism of the Social Fund, which jeopardizes its institutional autonomy. It is to be noted that the Government
deserves credit for accepting a Multi-Donor Review, and accepting the recommendations put forth. However,
implementation of these recommendations has been slow.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing Agency, the Social Fund for Development (SFD), started on a good footing at the beginning of the
project, but by the end of the project, it's performance was evaluated as only moderately satisfactory. The SFD has tried
to respond to the demands of the Government, demands of stakeholders and potential beneficiaries, as well as to the
many donors who participate in the funding of the Social Fund. This has resulted in an extended mandate, and a dilution
of efforts and loss of focus. However, the SFD accepted the recommendations of the Multi-Donor Mid-Term Review,
including the recommendations for a long-term change agenda. But problems persist in the implementation of these
recommendations which is aggravated by continued mixed signals from the donors. In addition, the SFD has failed to
establish sound internal controls sending contradictory messages to its main stakeholders.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
For the reasons stated above, the overall Borrower's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   SFD has had a number of positive achievements including employment generation, community
involvement in development, improving rural small infrastructure. To have a better and a wider impact, it
is believed that the SFD should also aim at promoting policy changes with partner institutions to reform
their programs and approaches to service delivery and community participation.
*   The Community participation needs to be further developed by involving communities early on in the
project cycle (project identification, preparation/appraisal stage). To increase community involvement,
capacity building for ensuring project ownership and sustainable operations and maintenance.
*   In order to better assess project socio-economic impacts, the SFD should enhance its baseline monitorable
indicators collection and impact assessments.
* Government commitment and contributions to various progress milestones is needed in the Egyptian
context to ensure that ad hoc decisions are avoided which would force the SFD to operate in areas that are
outside of its mandate and therefore unfunded. The Government has a different agenda from the donors:
broad employment generation and poverty reduction mandate versus a "niche role" envisaged by the Multi-
Donors Review focusing on local level poverty alleviation and employment generation with an emphasis
on gender, and complementing existing social ministerial programs.
*   An organization like the SFD cannot be made responsible for the National Environment Program and
Poverty Alleviation. The Government needs to focus on strengthening executing ministries as well as
addressing issues of governance on a broader scale.
*   On a more broader perspective: the lessons derived from the project confirm that when an organization like
the SFD loses its political support, it becomes very difficult to progress with an agreed change agenda, even
13



when donors are united behind the organization. The organization develops too broad a mandate, and its
focus is diverted away from the activities it does best.
Difficulty in achieving institutional capacity building (in the Egyptian context) due to the erosion of
institutional autonomy.
Most of these lessons are currently being considered under the third Phase of the social fund funded by IDA Credit 3230.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
"Page 4 CDP Kindly note that the MIS is designed and coded according to programs and both the EDU and the Gender
Unit are coded under the CDP . That is why they appeared in the Program Portfolio of CDP.
Page 5 CDP Regarding the issue of training doctors abroad, kindly note that only 370 doctors out of about 5000 were
trained abroad, the rest were trained in Egypt. Those who were trained abroad acted as TOTs after their return. This had
a positive impact on the "family health approach.
There is a service delivery system already in place regarding the family health approach. It is now being implemented in
almost 35% of the health units all over Egypt. There is also a fellowship in the 'family health approach' for doctors,
which proves that this approach is already institutionalized in the MOHP. Regarding the utilization rates, there are a
number of studies that were done and they all indicate that those rates have significantly increased. Another study was
conducted on 'customer satisfaction' with the services provided, which was also positive. Regarding what was
mentioned in respect that these projects 'created a parallel reform'
program to the Health Reform Project inside the MOHP, this is completely wrong as these projects were the corner stone
for formulating the Reform project and they are abiding to the same principles of the reform. This can be verified from
all the Health
Reform documentation of the MOHP.
Page 5 SEDO In section (c) Enterprise Development Program
Kindly note that the Presidential Decree stated that SEDO is to be an independent organization under the umbrella of
SFD. By the end of 2000, SEDO had its own separate balance sheet with separate assets and liabilities and expenses.
SEDO has its independent Personnel department, MIS and separate bank accounts.
Page 6: In section (c) Institutional Development Program: Line 4, paragraph 1: The SFD achievements have been
minimal in management policies, M&E, and targeting and hence the unsatisfactory rating of this program.
Kindly note that the main concern of the Institutional Development Program is to develop the SFD organization, and in
doing so, to institutionalize management policies, M&E, targeting, impact assessment, strategic planning and project
cycle management. SFD, through its IDP, started a major restructuring process to enhance its efficiency and
effectiveness in the years to come. SFD took into consideration the recommendations of the Muli-Donor Review Mission
that was assigned in the period from 23 January till 10 February 2000. Since September 2000, a comprehensive
participatory process of strategy realignment has been initiated where SFD staff at all management levels were heavily
involved, in close collaboration with a number of external experts, in formulating the mission statement,
institutionalizing the project cycle management, logical frameworks and operation plans, in addition to strategy
formulation and development for the next five years (2003-2007). The pace of the aforementioned process was
hampered due to intense external pressures and criticism from opposition parties in the form of a newspaper campaign
against SFD. This resulted in the Parliament and the Government requesting different reports and data from SFD. These
temporal circumstances geared all the efforts of the IDP and SFD's internal control and staff towards saving the integrity
of the organization and keeping it intact against all external pressures which aimed at interfering in SFD's policies,
operations and structure, in addition to its mission and objectives. In addition to that time and effort of the system and
staff were consumed in issuing the requested reports and data. This strong public pressure and criticism also resulted in
curtailing the management autonomy of the Social Fund to projects under LE 50,000 This severely hampered the
efficiency and speed of SFD operations, identified in the Multi-Donor Task Force report as two of its key comparative
advantages. As per targeting, it is important to note that the delay in proceeding with the bidding procedures has been as
a request in January 2001 from the PCU to hold procedures as has been made clear in my memo dated 24 April 2001
(SL/1953/2001). Since then, the PCU has hired two consultants to assess targeting at SFD and the final report was
submitted to SFD in August 2001.
14



Regarding the issue that was raised on "weak internal control", kindly note the following: The following up and
monitoring system of the SFD operation is subject to several layers of control. Such types of layers form a very
comprehensive internal control, follow up and monitoring system. Those layers involve several areas.
Project Management Units: The project management units, which are established in all SFD projects, are considered
the first step in the internal control system of the SFD operation. The PMU plays a very important part of the monitoring
and follow up which supervises day to day operations ( technical & financial) at the project. Regular reports are sent to
SFD for work progress.
Programs: The program officers are responsible for following up the execution of the projects and work progress, the
quantity and quality, technically and financially. Regular project site visits are carried out.
Regional Offices: The regional offices are considered a very active tool to SFD operations. One of the major functions
of the regional offices is follow up. SFD projects are carried out all over the country, because the SFD regional offices
are located in the regions which is where the projects are executed. The follow up is carried out closely to the project
operations. Random check of the project transactions, site visits, project outputs, achieving objectives, etc. Regular
reports are prepared and sent to the programs and headquarters.
Internal Audit Department
External Auditors
The role of the external auditors is to make sure that the financial statements are correct, identify the control weakness in
the system. etc. Audit reports, findings and recommendations are prepared and sent to SFD for review.
Central Auditing Agency (Government Auditors)
The Central Auditing Agency plays a very important role in monitoring and following up of SFD operations, which
conduct a regular review of SFD projects and operations. Reports are sent to the SFD management to take necessary
corrective actions. The monitoring and follow up system cover financial, technical and site visits of the SFD project
operations. The coordination among the different areas and layers of control are done in an efficient way.
Agency
SFD Operations: regarding the issue of financial sustainability of SFD's programs especially SEDO, kindly note that:
SEDO has undertaken the following measures to ensure its financial sustainability. Interest Rate: One of the major
achievements in phase II is the introduction of differential interest rates. A survey of prevailing interest rate in the market
is being carried out regularly. Another study of the competitive credit lines in Egypt is planned in order to enable SEDO
to put the strategy of revising the interest rates as to approach more closely the commercial interest rate and add to the
sustainability of SEDO. Cost Recovery: SEDO revenues are currently obtained from interest rate spread on loans
granted to customers via the financial intermediaries, and gradual charging of fees to clients to cover cost of business
support services rendered. Accordingly, SEDO has implemented a pilot project using Dakhaliya Industrial Extension
Center and based upon the experiences a comprehensive cost recovery strategy will be developed.
Page 10
SEDO Line 1, paragraph 6. "SEDO does not consider local borrowings in its calculation due to the current cash-crunch
and their belief that local market borrowing..."
Kindly note: SEDO future orientation and projection document (covering the period 2003-2007) which will be presented
during the coming CG meeting on Feb. 2002. The total sum required (8,156 Million L.E.) is expected to be covered by
the net revolving fund and cost recovery (4,464 Million L.E.). The gap which is 3,692 Million L.E. is expected to be
funded by the donors and Local Market Borrowings, in order to reach the yearly targets.
P.12
Line I in the last paragraph, " There is a general lack of baseline monitoring indicators before the undertaking of
activities.. and lack of impact assessment."
Kindly note that in case of SEDO: Monitoring Indicators: SEDO is operating according to an annual work plan and
cost estimate agreed upon by the Top Management, Heads of Departments and Heads of Zones before the beginning of
each year. The allocation of funds to different governorates in the annual plan takes into account poverty, unemployment
and human development indices. Also due consideration is given to population density and absorptive capacity together
with rural thrust to encourage the development of small businesses in rural areas. This plan explains the main activities at
the department level. As to the total performance of SEDO, all departments for the close monitoring of the operations
issue monthly and quarterly progress reports. Impact assessment: In cooperation with World Bank, impact assessment
study was designed and conducted (1998) by external firm for EDP clients received EDP services till June 1996. The
objective of the study was to assess the impact of the EDP in terms of it achieving the objectives of creating sustainable
jobs and viable businesses. Currently SEDO through external firm conduct a second impact assessment study. The
15



objective of this study is to track the impact of the EDP-SEDO on entrepreneurs on a continuous basis and to assess
competition by comparing the impact on those who were assisted by the EDP-SEDO and those who got other
commercial loans This study will also measure the impact of the new system of EDP-SEDO by comparing those who
got the EDP-SEDO loan before 1997 and those who got the EDP-SEDO loan recently (Beg. of 1997-1998) A subsidiary
objective of this study will be to assess those who have not got any commercial loans before and their purchase intention
in the future towards different loans is high. This research will study both the type of entrepreneurs, in term of financial
status, and enterprises, in term of growth, sustainability and success of the enterprise itself.
P.16
Line 5, paragraph 3: "... repeat Loans are not allowed most of the time...., that is not the case in financially and
economically viable small enterprises, repeat loans are always welcomed.
Line 11, paragraph 3: "It is not feasible nor recommended to ask SEDO to increase its monitoring capacity (FO's) to
meet all its borrower needs, including potential market demand in the future. This is a function that should be performed
by the banks themselves."
Kindly note that CEQOMA, used by BS Field Officers, is a systematic and pro-active approach to loan preparation,
implementation and (technical and financial) monitoring, all designed to ensure the sustainability of the SMEs.
Page 30: There is no contradiction between the efforts done by the SFD in partnership with the MOHP and the Health
Sector Reform as all the initiatives and activities which were implemented in SFD projects were the base and launching
point for the Health Sector Reform Strategy. All these activities are complementing what is already in place in the
MOHP. Also regular meetings for coordination and exchanging of experience are being done between the SFD project
managers and the Health Reform Manager and staff in the MOHP.
Page 33 : The sustainability of the small enterprises supported through SEDO finance and business services is equally
important for the sustainability of SEDO. The provision of services to SEs, particularly training and technical assistance,
contribute to the long-term sustainability, as will efforts to ease the regulatory environment that is not currently SE
friendly. It is also important for SEDO to identify new markets for the enterprises supported so that their goods and
services are sold. Already some SEDO clients are exporting, and through exhibitions and trade fairs, are exhibiting their
goods and services to a wider range of potential customers. This trend is important for the long-term sustainability of the
small enterprises. The identification of new economic activities is essential for long-term sustainability of the SE sector.
Page 36 & 37: One measure of the quality of the enterprises supported is the loan portfolio quality of the banks. Since
the reporting of aged arrears was initiated in June 1997 there has been a noticeable improvement in performance.
Although the partner banks undertake the credit risk (and the credit decision), the reporting of LPQ is important for
SEDO as it has implications on future business. When the arrears reporting was first instituted the quality of data from
the banks was less than desirable, but improvements have occurred over time. This helps SEDO to evaluate banking
performance
Line 6. varagraih 1: "The interest rats applied are currently below the market rates
Kindly note that SEDO differential interest rates are exactly the same as differential product pricing and are a normal
commercial approach both within the banking sector and in all multi-product operations. The SEDO interest rates are not
the lower market rate since the EU funded programmers and projects (MSSP and FSDP with minimum rates of 6.5%)
and other donor funds. Yet plans have been set to increase the interest rate by 1% annually starting in 2003.
Page 41: The impact of SEDO can be seen in the wide distribution of loans throughout all the governorates, across the
economic sectors, gender and the ratio of new to existing enterprises Through SEDO Impact studies, we can conclude
that impact may be categorized as follows:
(1) Social Impact: involving job creation, positive social awareness of self employment and business and particularly of
the importance of the small enterprise (SE) sector.
(2) Economic impact: involving income generation that contributes to the alleviation of poverty. Impact on others,
demonstrated by the fact that SEDO is using the services of 86 third party organizations (NGO, PVO, Business
Associations, etc), and (13) banks. In this context third parties have become aware of the potential market in the SE
sector and some have initiated their own schemes. In general intermediaries have shown interest in supporting the SE
sector.
(3) Environmental Impact: (a) Environment are always kept in mind. The licensing authorities for small enterprises
have specific parameters for environmental protection and at the same time SEDO staff from BS and IB ensure that
customer projects. (b) The laws concerning the environment and business were enabled in 1997. Since that time
businessmen requiring a license, first have to obtain the approval of the local environmental authority, thus ensuing that
the business is environmentally friendly. (c) SEDO has contributed to improving the environment by agreeing contracts
16



for the conversion of vehicles to natural gas from petrol, and also in the field of garbage collection and disposal. (d) SFD
has established an environmental unit in order to ensure environment quality in all SFD activities.
Page 43, Line 4, Paragraph 5: "BS could concentrate on bank branches that have low repayment to focus on training their
staff closely and help establish a proper monitoring and follow up culture at these branches."
Kindly note: Those activities are considered by FS. The crucial element of the Business Services Department's operation
is to provide access to credit for customers of assisted demand driven projects through:
* the marketing of financial products and business support services;
* the screening and selection of candidates to become clients;
* the delivery of services leading to the granting of credit and the "after sales" services; and
* the creation of an environment conducive to the sustainability of the small enterprises".
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
17



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR1              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Kilometers of Potable Water Networks.  1,070 km (PWP)                 1,890 km (to 6/01) (PWP)
Year: 1997-2000: 500 kilometers
2. Kilometers of Rural Roads improved.  455 km (PWP)                     688 km (to 6/01) (PWP)
Year: 1997-2000: 400 kilometers
3. Number of Health Awareness        1,407                               5,003
Campaigns.
Year: 1997-2000: 132 campaigns
4. Number of people in adult literacy  509,059                           518,565
campaigns.
Year 1997-2000:16,000 attendees
5. Number of Microenterprise Loan    15,469 (CDP)                        38,731 (CDP)
Receipts.
Year 1997-2000: 40,000 loan receipts
6. Number of Small Entrepreneurs helped. 62,684 (SEDO + CDP Micro-Credit)  137,000 (SEDO + CDP Micro-Credit)
Year 1997-2000: 40,000 entrepreneurs
7. % of Females among CDP direct     38% (CDP)                           54% (CDP)
beneficiaries.
Year 1997-2000: 50 percent on the
average per year
8. % of Females among Small          26.3% (SEDO)                        27% (SEDO)
entrepreneurs:
Year 1997-2000: 25-30 percent
9.Temporary Jobs.                    62,000                              146,200
Year 1997-2000: 80,000 jobs
10. Number of Permanents jobs.       71,200                              346,746
Year 1997-2000: 200,000 jobs
1 Actuals in "last PSR" are from May 31, 2000.
18



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate     Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million     US$ million
Small-scale Labor Intensive Works                  92.00         102.50         111
Community Development                             208.00         115.30          55
Enterprise Development                            354.00         520.00         205
Human Resources Development                        80.00          80.00         100
Institutional Development                          41.00         55.80          136
Total Baseline Cost                               775.00        873.60
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                775.00         873.60
Total Financing Required                775.00         873.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB       NCB         Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00      7.10        35.10    66.00     108.20
(0.00)    (7.10)     (35.10)   (0.00)    (42.20)
2. Goods                    0.00      0.00        8.30     58.20     66.50
(0.00)    (0.00)      (8.30)   (0.00)    (8.30)
3. Services                 0.00      0.00        38.10   202.20     240.30
Technical Assistance/Training  (0.00)  (0.00)    (38.10)  (0.00)     (38.10)
Credit Funds                0.00      0.00        31.40   300.90     332.30
(0.00)    (0.00)     (31.40)   (0.00)    (31.40)
Salaries                    0.00      0.00        0.00     22.60     22.60
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)
Operations & Maintenance    0.00      0.00        0.00     5.10       5.10
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00      7.10       112.90   655.00    775.00
(0.00)    (7.10)     (112.90)  (0.00)   (120.00)
19



Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivale nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB        NCB        Other   N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00       8.10       34.00   45.40      87.50
(0.00)    (5.50)     (18.30)  (0.00)    (23.80)
2. Goods                    0.00       0.00       9.70    22.90      32.60
(0.00)    (0.00)      (2.60)  (0.00)    (2.60)
3. Services                 0.00       0.00       104.90  82.90     187.80
Technical Assistance/Training  (0.00)  (0.00)    (21.80)  (0.00)    (21.80)
Credit Funds                0.00       0.00       69.70   466.2     535.90
(0.00)    (0.00)     (62.60)  (0.00)    (62.60)
Salaries                    0.00       0.00       0.00    21.30      21.30
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)
Operations & Maintenance    0.00       0.00       0.00     8.50      8.50
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)
Total                     0.00       0.00       0.00    0.00      873.60
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)  (0.00)    (110.8)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Com ponent (in US$ million equi valent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component          Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA    Govt.   CoF.   IDA     Govt.  CoF.   IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Small-scale Labor      25.00   67.00         23.80   68.83   9.87   95.2   81.7
Intensive Works
Community              50.00  158.00         44.00   69.52   1.78   88.0   24.3
Development                                                                .
Enterprise Development  30.00  324.00        29.00   490.93  0.07   96.7   149.2
Human Resources        15.00   65.00         14.00   66.00   0.00   93.3   56.2
Development
Institutional          0.00    41.00          0.00   55.80   0.00   0.0    125.6
Development                                                               ___
Total                  120.00  655.00        110.80  751.08  11.72  0.0    0.0
The Netherlands contribution (NLG 35.0 million) was provided in the form of joint-cofinancing and disbursed
through IDA. In addition, funds expensed against environmental and gender activities totaling US$0.25 million are
lumped under the PWP program.
20



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The principal development objective for the support to the Egypt Social Fund for Development was creation of jobs in
an efficient and cost effective manner. Secondary objectives included targeting more women and poorer communities.
The ICR economic analysis will be focused on job creation success and on meeting gender and poverty targets.
Job-Creation Targets
The principal outcome of job-creation has been more than reached as shown in the table below.
Actual Job Creation Benefits Over Benefits Expec ted at Appr aisal
Total   Amount   Plan      Actual   Planne Planned  Actual     Actual Perm.
Amount Actually   IDA      IDA      d      Perm.    Temp.       Jobs in
Plan at Disb.     Amount   Amount Temp.     Jobs in  Jobs in   Person-Years
Appr.   (US$      (US$     Disb.    Jobs in Person-  Person-
(US$    Mln)     Mln)      (US$     Person- Years   Years
Mln)                       Mln)     Years
Public Works Program (PWP)   92.0    102.5     25.0     23.8                      43,000      3,100
Community Development       208.0    115.3     50.0     44.0                      17,300      46,000
Program (CDP)
Small Enterprise Development  354.0  520.0     30.0     29.0                      85,900     286,300
Organization (SEDO) 1/
Human Resources              80.0     80.0     15.0     14.0                        0         11,346
Development Program (HRDP)
Institutional Development    41.0     55.8     NA       NA                         NA          NA
Program (IDP)
TOTAL                       775.0    873.6    120.0     110.8  80,000  200,000   146,200     346,746
Difference of Actual over            1.3%              -7.7%                      82.8%       73.4%
Planned
1/A total of US$520.0 million was disbursed by SEDO to SAs, consisting mainly of reflows, of which total donorfinancing
amounted to US$166 million, out of which US$29 million was disbursed by IDA. For the purpose of economic analysis, the
total amount is more relevant than the net amount disbursed by donors because it is the total amount which has the major
impact on job creation wMch is the main objective of the project.
In terms of job-creation the project has achieved 82.8% more than appraisal estimates in terms of person-years of
temporary jobs and 73.4% more in terms of the number of permanent jobs. This has been at a cost of only 1.3% more
than the appraisal estimate. The permanence of the some of the permanent jobs created under SEDO can be questioned
but nevertheless the economic returns to the project in terms of job creation seems to have far exceeded appraisal
estimates.
Gender and Poverty Targets
The gender target for small enterprise has been exceeded as has the gender target for the overall beneficiaries. In terms
of poverty, it is difficult to actually compare the poverty levels of SFD beneficiaries to the general population which
would be the most effective way of assessing whether poverty targeting has been achieved. The data from the
Department for International Development (DFID) financed beneficiary assessments completed in 1999 indicated that
the poverty impact of the public works program tended to be neutral while the poverty targeting by the community
development program and its micro-enterprise sub-program was quite effective.
The poverty impact of SEDO is more mixed. The immediate direct beneficiary entrepreneurs tends to be above the
average income levels. However, the jobs created by these entrepreneurs appear to be low paying jobs and should
benefit the poor more. However, this cannot be fully verified in the absence of any independent survey.
21



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                               Performance Rating
No. of Persons and Specialty
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Count     Specialty               Implementation  Development
Month/Year                                          Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sept. 1995             3    TTL, HRS
Appraisal/Negotiation
Dec. 1995              5    TTL, PSD/SEFS, HRS,
ES, SrEE
April 1996             3    TTL, PSD/SEFS, HRS
Supervision
Oct. 1997              4    TTL, HRS, 00, FMS              S              S
(Launch)
June 1998              3    TTL, Ec, HRS                  HS             S
Nov. 1998 (MTR)        4    TTL, Ec., PSD/SEFS, Ec.       HS             S
March 1999             3    TTL, FMS, PSD                  S             S
Feb. 2000              4    TTL, SS, ES, FMS               U             S
May 2001               2    TTL, PS                        U             S
ICR 
Aug. 2001              4     TTL/PS/FMS/OA                 U             S
TTL: Task Team Leader; PSD/SEFS: Private Sector Development/Small Enterprise Financial Specialist; Ec: Economist;
HRS: Human Resources Specialist; ES: Education Specialist; SrEE: Sr. Environmental Engineer; SS: Social Specialist;
ES: Environmental Specialist; 00: Operations Officer; PS: Procurement Specialist; FMS: Financial Management
Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               NA                    102,727.67
Appraisal/Negotiation                    NA                    102,727.67
Supervision                              NA                    483,019.41
ICR                                      NA                     38,916.71
Total                                    NA                    727,391.46
The above actual budget figures apply to the identification to supervision phases (the ICR budget is planned) and
includes all trust funds. The BB budget amounts to US$482,287.07.
22



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                                NA
Sector Policies                               NA
Physical                                      SU
Financial                                     N
Institutional Development                     M
Environmental                                 SU
Social
Poverty Reduction                      M
Gender                                 SU
Other (Please specify)                 M
NGOs and community participation
Private sector development                    SU
Public sector management                      NA
Other (Please specify)                        NA
under other, we consider NGO and community
participation
23



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Lending                                            S
Supervision                                        S
Overall                                            S
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
Preparation                                        S
Government implementation performance              U
Implementation agency performance                  S
Overall                                            U
24



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
SFD Mission Beyond 1996, Government of Egypt, Social Fund for Development.
Feasibility Study Report of the Task Force on: the Establishment of a Small Enterprise Support and Finance
Institution (SESFI), April 1996 (Restricted circulation only).
Promoting Women's Employment and Participation in Social Funds: The Case of the Egyptian Social Fund for
Development (SFD), Hanaa Kheir-El-Din, July 1997.
Study of the Social, Economic and Environmental Impacts of the Nile Banks Protection and Society Development
Project, Final Report. June 1999.
Workplan of the Specific Financing Agreement between the European Community and the Social Fund for
Development for Financing Phase II and the year 1999, Revised September 1999.
Egypt Social Fund for Development Multi-Donor Review Report July, 2000.
Summary of Major Findings of the Egypt Consultations with the Poor Study. Presented at a Workshop in
Washington, D.C. September 22-24, 1999.
Report on a Technical Assistance Consultancy to Further the Implementation of Gender Mainstreaming within
Egypt's Social Fund for Development. Dr. Emma Hooper. September 1999.
The Social Fund for Development Procurement Policies and Procedures. June 20, 2000.
Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements for the Third Social Fund for Development.
April 1999. -
Targeting Effectiveness and Social Impact Assessment (article).
Participatory Social Impact Assessment of Community Development Projects in Assiut governorate. Nagwa Riad.
July 1997.
Implementation Completion Report, Social Fund for Development Project Phase I. July 1997.
Small Enterprises Development Organization (SEDO); Annual Plan for FY2001.
SEDO Performance and Status Annual Progress Report (Year 2000). February 2001.
Questionnaire for the Study of the Social & Economic Impact of the Loans provided by the SFD; Beneficiary
Assessment, October 26, 2001 (carried out by IDA's Egypt Country Office Staff).
Procurement post-review report (January, 2002) (carried out by the Cairo Country Office).
25



Additional Annex 8. Public Works Program (PWP)
I - Project Objective
The project objectives were principally to create jobs through support of small enterprises and labor intensive works, and
support community infrastructure and services in partnership with NGOs and local groups.
Create jobs through support of small enterprises and labor intensive works
The total number of jobs created within the PWP program during Phase II reached 3,100 permanent jobs and 43,000
temporary jobs.
Unit
Service                            Cost             1997   1998   1999   2000  2001   Total
in L.E.                                            (incl.
l____________________________________________________       _____                     1996)
Environmental Infrastructure
a. Wastewater Upgrading (# of
Subprojects)
b. Wastewater Network in Kilometers          550,000    0     20     18    12      4    152
c. Wastewater Treatment Plant (# of        1,200,000    0      0      3     2      1     11
Subprojects)
d. W astewater Pump Station (# of            850,000    0       1     2      2     1     10
Subprojects)
e. Canal Covering in Kilometers    600,000- 1,350,000   0     11     25     20     5    166
f. Canal Protection in Kilometers  250,000-1,000,000    2     10     25     16     5    330
g. Channel Maintenance in Kilometers           1,000    0      0 7,000   7,000 3,000 20,840
h. Other Projects (# of Subprojects)                    0     20     70     25      -   262
Potable Water                                                       _     _
a. Networks in Kilometers              30,000-45,000   60    300    600   780    150  5,409
b. Elevated and Ground Tanks         275,000-400,000    4     20     28     22      -   269
c. Artesian Wells                             40,000   10     20     30     34      -   337
d. Other Projects # of Subprojects)                    13     20     16      9      -   176
Rural Roads                                           _.__
a. Road Construction in Kilometers          225,000    85     85    240   238     40  1,772
W Road lmprovement in Kilometers               60,000    0       0      4     5      -
Building Refurbishment
a. Clinics (Units)                         500/sq.m.    0      6     12      9     2    368
b. Youth Centers (IJnits)                  500/sq.m.   11     40     23     16     2    406
c. Schools (Units)                         500/sq.m.    0      10     5      2      -   473
d. Social Centers (Units)                  500/sq.m.    0      2     15      9      -    68
|  e. Other Projects (# of Subprojects)                  0       4      8     7      -    146
Support community infrastructure and services in partnership with NGOs and local groups.
The PWP has made a significant contribution to the development of community infrastructure and services. The current
PWP's implementation structure is working effectively through Sponsoring Agencies, Intermediate Agencies and
26



Executing agencies. The strengths reside in the ability of these agencies to deliver sub-projects using labor intensive
methodology and local group contracting methods.
During phase II, PWP continued to expand its role in providing small infrastructure and structural improvements to
existing canals, ditches, waterways, sanitation, roads and public service buildings such as schools and clinics.
Moreover, the PWP's value added is its potential to influence the context within which it works. The SFD Regional
Offices along with the sub-project Project Implementation Units (PIU) are the outreach mechanisms and the
implementing arm, responding to communities requests and needs. In addition, their management styles, systems used
to monitor and implement the projects have enabled them to forge a closer link with the communities, developing trust
and credibility, thereby serving as an active agent at the governorate and district levels.
The PWP has also accomplished other objectives, namely the labor-intensive methods, creating an environment for the
development of small contractors, integration with community development services, and collection of fees for O&M.
The PWP, for its efforts over the course of Phase I and II is regarded as a vehicle for improvement in the rural areas.
In addition, the PWP is currently working on pilot sub-projects which are integrated with the CDP, and positive results
were recorded for the River Nile Project and the Damietta Integrated Development project in Mayasra village, the
Mattareya project in Daqahleya, the integrated projects in Quena and Aswan.
Operations & Maintenance
The Operations & Maintenance aspect of the PWP sub-projects has been delayed due to a lack of counterpart funding to
complement the fees obtained by the communities for each sub-project. This is due to existing regulatory restrictions.
Each sub-project, through a community contribution, was able to place O&M funds amounting to 10% of the sub-project
in a Bank account (which accumulates interest), however, the SFD was unable to match the funds from its own resources
(i.e. the donors would not commit funds for O&M, and the problems encountered on receiving the Government
contribution further exacerbated this issue). The O&M strategy therefore became inoperative. In order to try find a way
out of this impasse, the SFD and KfW came to an agreement, whereby KfW would finance a Monitoring & Evaluation
(M&E) study that would look into other related institutional aspects like targeting and project identification,
implementation, sustainabilitv, impact and lessons learned, reporting, and decentralization. A mid-term report was well
received by the PWP since it outlines feasible solutions. Once the study findings are approved by the SFD management,
the pilot phase will begin to test outcome and replicability to PWP sub-projects.
Targeting
The PWP's targeting methods are: geographic targeting, in which the SFD, with the support of the EU, is developing a
Geographical Information System (GIS) for allocating resources to the poorest segments of the population and those
most under-served; a demand-driven targeting, i.e., responding to the demands launched by the SFD's institutional
partners (i.e. line ministries, governorates, banks, NGOs, and certain well-organized community associations); and self-
targeting mechanisms which are applied on a limited scale.
The allocation of PWP funds and the selection of sub-projects generally follows sound targeting principals, and the PWP
has developed an in-house service deficiency geographical mapping of all Marakez/districts and prioritized/ranked
governorates into a Priority Targeting Report (PTR). The PWP will rely on the results of the KfW study to further
develop the PTR indicators into a poverty index to help allocate future PWP funds.
Recommendations
The PWP could further enhance its performance. It should continue to refine its strategic objectives, and strengthen its
relationship with partner organizations to impact upon their performance in developing and financing their own
programs. In this regard, the specific recommendations are:
a) Intensifying project identification methods through systematic field surveys and promoting a sustained dialogue
with all stakeholders. Improving the project screening tools, specifically when the project is dealing with
environmental issues (a clear example is the laying out of water pipelines without considering the associated
wastewater issues, is causing environmental and economic problems, especially in Lower Egypt).
27



b) Improved local resource mobilization, by promoting the idea of using the labor-intensive engineering (LBE)
methodology for the solid waste collection of the canal/drain covered projects 1/; funding for technical assistance in
infrastructure maintenance to continue to support communities who have benefited from SFD financing.
c) Better integration with the HRDP supported training infrastructures, such as the pilot project that was
implemented in Wadi El Natroun, which trained small contractors and land owners on modern irrigation techniques
suitable for desert reclamation, especially as there are three Mega Agriculture Development projects in Egypt
(Toshka, Owinat-East and Al-Salam Canal - Sinai), which require this sort of knowledge.
d) Improved community participation by integrating PWP and CDP sub-projects to provide a one-stop-shop for
development, i.e. provide a fully integrated project within a community that extends complementing services
(including gender and environment).
There are very few institutions in Egypt today which have the competence and the impetus to act as a catalyst or change
agent as the SFD has managed to become. The PWP, as part of the SFD, can play an expanded role in this direction.
The PWP on its own can obtain good results by a show of example and can promote a change in behavior and in doing
by its partner institutions, through innovative policies and implementation methods. The PWP should focus on the
following:
a) Developing projects which generate more employment for the poorest of the poor. Generating, testing and
applying systems for financially sustainable operations and maintenance for PWP projects; demonstrating how these
systems could be applied more generally; applying the results of the KfW study on the possibility of either creating
user associations in partnership with local units or the latter contracting the services of local NGOs to establish a
franchised cost-recovery scheme for the maintenance of the infrastructure.
b) Fine tuning the targeting of investment both geographically and sectorally to better reach the poorest of the poor,
for example through practical mapping of indicators and deficiencies as clarified above. Developing projects aimed
at self-targeting, such as providing water and wastewater house connections to poor families, promotion of labor
intensive and low-skill activities such as canal cleaning and solid waste collection, to be used as entry points for
training and micro-credit. The clear example on self-targeting is the collection of the solid waste management, in
which the PWP could tackle piggy-backing on large mega projects currently solicited and already awarded by some
governorates. These types of projects lend themselves to the use of labor based methods. Moreover, PWP can also
replicate some of its pilot projects previously implemented in other governorates.
c) Continuing initiatives towards institutional capacity-building at the level of governorates and local communities,
using various means to introduce lessons, from the successfully applied approaches of labor-based contracting in
construction and O&M activities.
d) PWP has been developing a body of knowledge and experience within its national boundaries that needs to be
exchanged with other countries in the MENA region and Africa. The Program has been called upon by other similar
institutions and to-be-established Social Funds to assist in their launch and formulation of policies and procedures.
1/ In order to effectively target the poor, the PWP can benefit from the CDP experience in primarily working with local
NGOs in rural Egypt, as sponsoring agencies for its solid waste management projects. NGOs initially provide a labor list
including names and addresses of individuals in the community who are poor, unemployed or both. The names are used
by the respective NGOs to recruit laborers on the project. Initial training is conducted by a professional subcontractor
specialized in the field of solid waste management to upgrade the technical capacity of the NGOs participating in the
project. The latter, in turn, raises awareness of the local community and trains prospective laborers involved in
implementation.
28



Additional Annex 9. Community Development Program (CDP) and Micro-Enterprise Credit
Program
Community Development Program (CDP)
The CDP has continued to carry out its main programs during Phase II of the project, focusing on Education (literacy),
Health, Environment, Micro-credit, and NGO capacity building and training. In addition, the CDP provided support to
specific sub-projects which targeted the handicapped.
The CDP provided about 46,000 permanent employment opportunities and 17,300 temporary employment opportunities.
The percentage of women benefiting from these employment programs was about 50%. The majority of temporary jobs
were created through the eradication illiteracy program where the SFD through the CDP contributed 8% out of the
country-wide effort of 11 % over the past 10 years.
The following table indicates the main achievements of the CDP during phase II of the project.
Item                      Unit/Cost  1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001   Total
LE         Total                                               Phase II
for
Phase I
1-Health Services
a. No. of Health Clinics    360,000       63      199        5       98       23      0     325
rehab. / estab. / equipped                   I
b. No. of Health Awareness      193      583     1,079     141    2,252     1,531     0    5,003
Campaigns
c. No. of Health Personnel    5,000      820    6,500      750     1,199     480      0    8,929
Trained
2- Education and Training
a.  No.   of   Classrooms     3,270     1,570     403    16,000     542      341      0   17,286
established
b. No. of people in Illiteracy  110      NA     12,090  480,000   16,260   10,215     0  518,565
Classes
c. No. of Individuals Trained   100   37,161      403    16,000     542      341      0   17,286
to Teach Illiteracy Classes
d.  No.   of  beneficiaries     528   35,303    9,711   37,158     6,158   16,299  2,700  72,026
receiving vocational training
and awareness
3-   Productive  Families
(Micro-enterprises)  Loan
Program
a. No. of loan recipients      1,490   36,962   2,882    6,145     4,989   21,160  3,555  38,731
b. No. of loans               1,490   36,911    2,882    6,145    4,989    21,160  3,555  38,731
c. Average Loan size (L.E.)    1,490    $360     1,314    1,245    1,380    1,635  1,342   1,490
4- NGOs Capacity Building
a. Upgrading Technical and   64,000      137        8       38       21       36      6      109
Administrative capacities                                                                  _._.
5- Environment
a. No. of environmental     938,000       65        4        8        1        3      0      '16
Projects
29



The CDP works primarily through intermediary organizations, semi-government agencies and NGOs, and efforts
continue in the promotion of community driven development projects. Certain NGOs are well established and large,
such as the Productive Families Association (PFA), which manages and disburses almost two-thirds of the funds for
micro-lending.
During Phase II, the CDP awarded 262 contracts amounting to LE 397.0 million, of which 150 were executed through
NGO's with an overall budget of LE 98.0 million. The remainder of the projects were executed through governmental
agencies (ministries, governmental authorities such as the General Authority for Literacy and Adult Education (GALAE)
program, etc.).
In addition, the CDP continues to provide capacity-building to NGOs, particularly grassroots organizations, and focuses
the training activities on strengthening project development and design, provision of equipment, upgrading N(GO
facilities, marketing training, improvements and promotion of the productive families' retail outlets, and management
capabilities, for which a total of LE 7.0 million was allocated to this activity.
In addition, 25 NGO's in the Dakahliya govemorate were trained in needs assessment capacity; proposal writing, and
project management, monitoring and evaluation. Training in participatory techniques was successfully piloted for NGOs
in the Upper Egypt governorates of Quena and Aswan, and focused on project identification and planning. This
particular training course was undertaken for 735 participants from 60 NGOs.
Community participation was further encouraged through pilot programs which integrated PWP and CDP sub-projects,
thereby extended complementary services which proved to be more efficient. Further work is planned in this direction,
including mainstreaming environment and gender activities through this new process. The CDP has undertaken
significant efforts to increase community participation in the project development cycle.
The CDP is heavily involved in the education sector, primarily in the eradication of illiteracy program, managed by the
GALAE, and providing rural schools to remote and under-served areas. The impact has been quite favorable, and with
CDP involvement and advice on the literacy programs, the literacy courses have been rationalized in time and cost, with
a revision of the curriculum making it more relevant to the participants. Further thought should be given on how best to
implicate the community in the development of literacy programs so that they become more sustainable within the
community, and training of community members to manage literacy classes.
The CDP continues to be strongly implicated in the health sector, with about 52% of funds being allocated to primary
health care and reproductive and child health sub-projects, mainly in renovations, equipment, and training. The CDP has
also instituted the use of health outreach workers to carry out health awareness campaigns and register families, which
the MOHP agrees to continue to finance once the project is completed.  Though much roadway has been made in
implementing the SFD model, this may be in contradiction with some of the efforts presently being undertaken for the
Health Sector Reform, namely the rationalization of health centers through a Needs-Based Masterplan and training
program for Family Practice Physician. The program, overall, has contributed to the increase in the effectiveness of
Government health service delivery, but replication is dependent on the ability of this program to be cost-effective and
affordable.
In light of the above, CDP has shown to have good capacity, and attempts to promote best practices in each of the sectors
they manage, including the development of innovative projects, with particular emphasis on the poor. In addition, the
CDP acts as a catalyst for bringing together NGOs and other organizations targeting the poor. The CDP also has a strong
commitment at developing capacity building in grassroots organizations, and is able to furnish an expertise on
participatory methods, and channeling concerns at the institutional and policy levels.
However, CDP could be further improved as follows:
1.     CDP should focus more on poverty reduction activities, strengthening the social analysis aspect of
project identification/appraisal, and use a more participatory approach method to improve targeting, project
design and implementation. In addition, the CDP should invigorate the impact assessments with clear
guidelines as to the lessons learned that can be applied to future projects.
30



2.     Based on the experience gleaned thus far from the integrated approach to sub-project development,
further program coordination and analysis should be strengthened, targeting improved, and investments
sustained.
3.     Targeting and support to female-headed households should be reinforced and given priority treatment.
4.     CDP has conducted several capacity-building programs for NGOs. Given the importance of NGO
involvement in sub-project delivery, their role in civil society and poverty reduction, additional training and
dissemination of information is needed:
Increase the training in participatory methods;
Encourage competent NGOs to expand their activities and to assist with capacity-building for
smaller NGOs.
Facilitate NGO networking and the sharing of NGO experiences with other agencies concerned.
5.     In summary, CDP needs a clearer emphasis on the target population and objectives for each activity in
relation to the overarching goal of poverty reduction and empowerment. CDP needs to consider the balance of
its portfolio and how existing activities might evolve to build on the SFD's particular strengths. Finally, CDP
needs to focus on the results achieved by its activities both in order to assess how effective they are overall and
also so that successful initiatives can be promoted.
Micro-Enterprise Credit Program
SFD has been providing micro-credit within its community development program through NGOs, Community
Development Associations (CDAs), and one bank: PBDAC during phase I and II. The Productive Families Association,
a semi-NGO under the Ministry of Social Affairs, accounts for a large share of the total SFD's micro-credit loan
portfolio, with the rest of the portfolio residing with other NGOs. The CDP has provided credit to close to 32,000
borrowers and a loan portfolio of close to LE 100 million, with an average loan size of LE 1,400 (between $325 and $
410). Close to 50% of borrowers are female micro entrepreneurs, thus targeting the poor and achieving a balanced
gender representation. The program is self targeted and has helped improve the income generating capabilities of
beneficiary families. The CDP micro-credit program is not sustainable, and does not adhere to internationally recognized
best practices in the field. The interest rate applied is well below the market rate (it is at 7% to MRs and 8% to loanees,
and 1% is kept by the MFI for credit risk and is returned to SFD if there is no default.). MFI's are given a grant for
operating costs. The interest rate does not allow the recovery of costs neither to the Micro Finance Intermediary (MFI)
nor to the CDP. It does not allow repeat loans that micro entrepreneurs usually require. The scale of operations of micro
finance activities of the individual MFIs is too small to break-even nor is it sustainable even if marked interest rates were
applied. The micro activities also lack the market orientation. Activities funded by the PFAs, for example the handicraft
activities, face market saturation. Table 7 summarizes the micro-credit program achievements, per SFD's records.
31



Table 1: Micro-credit Program Performance
Items       Phase I      1997       1998         1999         2000     Up to June 30,   Total
2001       Phase 11
No. of             37,260      3,048        3,537        4,121       10,540        10,621     31,867
outstanding
borrowers
Loan portfolio  49,787,044  4,815,689   7,337,980    5,674,870   16,166,593     15,093,610 49,08H,742
Average loan        1,258      1,549        1,960        1,297        1,523         1,421
size
Cumulative no.     39,575     42,684       46,427       50,802       61,420        72,044
of borrowers
Percentage           37%        46%          47%         49%          50%            42%
female
borrowers
Cumulative     49,787,044 54,602,733   61,940,713   67,615,583   83,782,176     98,875,786
loan portfolio           I___
As part of their orientation towards sustainability of the institution and due to some donor requirements, the CDP started
experimenting with some models using market based interest rates and aiming for program sustainability. Most of these
models have been designed based on best practice principles and are supposed to be self-sustainable. They are still at the
contracting stage and SFD does not yet have results.
Four models are adopted by the SFD, these are:
*   The Catholic Relief Services (CRS) Model is being piloted in three governorates. CRS is a national NGO
experienced in micro-credit and performs training of other NGOs in the field of micro-finance. They won the
contract based on a competitive process. They contract out the provision of micro-credits and related services to
local NGOs, and monitor and control the NGO performances. Each NGO would receive LE 350,000 for on-
lending and a grant of LE 36,000 for operational support or 7% of the loan amount considered the break-even
point (approximate after 23 months). The loan is repayable in one installment after 6 years with 7% interest
payable semi-annually to SFD, 2% credit risk, and 5% spread for the NGO for operating costs. The interest to
the micro-entrepreneur is 15%. So far they have signed three contracts in Assiyut, and have 5 others at the
appraisal stage.
*   The Microstart model is being piloted in two governorates of Fayyoum and Sharquia and funded and launched
by UNDP. Two NGOs have been chosen. A grant of LE 450,000 is given to each NGO for on-lending plus
some operating costs depending on NGO's needs. The micro-credit program is supposed to be set up based on
best practice with an interest rate of 14%. A technical assistance provider has been recruited to train the NGOs
in micro-credit programs management. The program aims also at strengthening CDP's capacity to manage its
micro finance portfolio and provide the needed technical assistance to its partners MFIs. The program is stilt at
the set up stage and no results have yet been registered.
*   The DANIDA Model. This is a similar model to the CRS one. It is being implemented in 2 governorates:
Quena and Aswan. A total envelope of US$700,000 has been committed. Each NGO can have LE 100,000 for
on-lending and LE 17,000 as a grant to reach a break-even level. The applied interest rate is 13%.
*   The Productive Family (PF) program. It is implemented through tripartite contracts (SFD, PF associations and
the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA)). Contracting with NGOs and CDAs is based on the assessment of their
management capacity and their past performance. The program consists of two parts: loan funds for on-lending
and a grant for operating expenses, training of beneficiaries, and upgrading costs of the outlet (i.e. MIS, etc.).
The applied interest rate is 7% with 1% for credit risk. The loan is repayable in five years by the PF Association
with two years grace period. The interest rate to the final borrower is 8%. The 1% credit risk is refunded to
SFD if not used.
32



* Other NGOs ongoing lending by SFD is similar to the Productive Families Association program. Any NGO all
over the country can apply for the program and based on an assessment of their capacity and past performance,
they can be granted a loan and grant to start a micro-finance program.
The PBDAC model. PBDAC has a large network of village banks and constitutes a good outreach for micro
finance activities. SFD contracted out LE 24 million as a loan for on-lending and a grant of LE 75,000 for administrative
costs. The program is managed in six governorates: three in Upper-Egypt (Assiyut, Beni Sweef, Sohag) and three in
Sharquia, Qualiubia, and Behira. The applied interest rate is 10% of which 5% is repaid to SFD, 3% is a spread for the
bank and 2% also kept by the bank for credit risk). The duration of the loan is two years with 18 months grace period
and 6 months repayment period.
33



Additional Annex 10. The Enterprise Development Program (EDP) - (renamed the Small
Enterprise Development Organization - SEDO)
Achievement of Objective and Output
The objective of the Enterprise Development Program (EDP) was to help create employment through support for new
and existing small enterprises by providing a package of technical assistance, training and credit. Credit is extended
mainly through the banking sector. The EDP operated during Phases I and II as a successful wholesale small business
support and finance agency, delivering loans to small businesses through banks and delivering business services through
NGOs. It was initially launched as a job creating mechanism to assist entrepreneurs and disburse loans quickly and
efficiently without much attention to sustainability. The average loan size amounts to LE 20,245. SEDO loans are
classified within three different loan ranges serving the very small entrepreneurs: those requiring loans of less than LE
50,000 and larger ones with loans up to LE 500,000. For Phase II, it was agreed that the issue of sustainability be
addressed. A task force composed of SFD staff, the Association and other donor representatives including the European
Union, prepared a business plan detailing among others, the principles of sustainability to be adopted by the SFD. The
basic premises of sustainability to be considered are: (a) SFD on-lending to banks should carry an interest rate sufficient
to maintain the value of SFD funds in real terms; (b) the cost of the services provided by SFD staff is recovered in the
long term directly or indirectly, from the banks/beneficiaries; (c) the banks have a sufficient spread to cover their costs
including an allowance for default; and (d) EDP, while maintaining its social objectives, is managed, as a self-standing
commercial program.
It was agreed that the Enterprise Development Program be restructured, according to the principles set out in the
business plan, within 18 months of the credit effectiveness, by end of 1998.
During Phase II, the EDP developed into a Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO) and contributed largely
to the achievement of SFD's development objectives of employment generation, however, has come short of achieving
the transition into a financially sustainable institution.
SEDO accounted for about 65% of total SFD's expenditures and 85% of total permanent jobs created and 60% of
temporary jobs. It succeeded in widening the access by small entrepreneurs to the banking sector, which it helped open
in the first phase. SEDO loans were provided through 11 banks, mostly public sector, that have over 2026 branches,
hence, allowing access to credit by small entrepreneurs in the most remote areas of Egypt. Ninety percent of the loan
portfolio of SEDO is with five major public sector banks that have branches all over the country. SEDO also operates
through 86 other intermediaries such as: NGOs, business associations, universities, cooperatives, etc.. It has successfully
created 40% more jobs than was expected during Phase II and twice as many as in Phase I. SEDO has seen its
performance improve from year to year to peak in 2000. During 2000 alone, SEDO contracted LE 900 million and
created over 112,000 permanent equivalent jobs; hence doubling its prior year's performance. Through the provision of
credit and other business services to close to 100,000 entrepreneurs, SEDO helped create 286,300 permanent and 85,900
temporary jobs, or 315,000 permanent equivalent jobs, for the period of 1997- 2001, up from 144,293 and 43,427
respectively in phase I (between 1992-1996) or 158,769 permanent equivalent. Women small entrepreneurs represented
27% of the total entrepreneurs who benefited from SEDO's services during Phase II, up from 24% for Phase I. It has
mainly reached the small entrepreneurs. Loans of LE 200,000 or less represent now more than 95% of total SEDO loan
portfolio, of which over 70% for loans less than LE 50,000. The loan portfolio covers the main sectors, with 41% in
trade activities, 24% in agro-business, 19% in services, and 16% in industry. Tables 1 and 2, attached, summarize
SEDOs achievements, per SEDO statistics.
The program has evolved into a successful organization with staff, systems, management practices of high quality and
constantly improving to adapt to the requirements of efficiency and excellence. SEDO operates three main programs:
Financial Services (FS), Business Services (BS), and Institutional Business Services (IB) contributing each to the
achievement of SEDO's objectives. These functions are supported by: an Accounting, Budgeting, Control and Treasury
(ABC&T) department, a Management Information Systems (MIS) department, and a smaller department for Human
Resources (HR) management.
34



The FS department is responsible for the relations with the banks that on-lend to entrepreneurs, by negotiating and
issuing contracts, disbursing funds for on-lending, monitoring portfolio quality, and maintaining portfolio database.
The BS department provides business support services to entrepreneurs to assist them in setting up and managing viable
businesses. The services include the preparation of business plans and feasibility studies, project design, counseling,
marketing, application for a loan, and follow-up during the life of the loan. The services are provided through the 130
Field Officers in the field and throughout the 9 zones and 27 governorates where SEDO operates. FOs are rewarded
based on performance. SEDO uses an incentive scheme known as the CEQOMA 1/. It is a performance measurement
tool for FOs, as well as a tool to follow-up on credit. It measures FO's performance throughout the project cycle: from
the initial contact of the potential client, to the assistance with the feasibility study, the business plan, the credit
application, receipt, and to the follow-up of the repayment of the credit.
The IB department is responsible for the design, marketing, and monitoring of standard replicable packages and local
area development projects implemented through tripartite agreements between SEDO, (financing), banks (sponsoring
and credit management), and NGOs (executing). Local area development refers to investments in interrelated or similar
activities implemented in one specific geographic area (i.e. fish farming, etc.).
Despite the impressive achievements, SEDO did not complete the agreed transition plan.
Table 1: SEDO Activities and Emp  ment Creation (LE Million)
Item              Total    1997   1998   1999    2000     June     Total 1997-  Grand
Phase I                                  2001       2001        Total
Contracted with Financial   1,309    314    193    848    901       72       2,327        3,637
Intermediaries (LE million)
Disbursed to Financial      1,112    117    221    439    724       305      1,805       2,918
Intermediaries (LE million)
Disbursed to Clients (LE    1,011    286    315    365    713       325      2,004        3,015
million)                                   I_             I
No. of Enterprises         56,869    17,089  13,695  15,665 37,380  15,179   99,008       155,877
No. of Entrepreneurs       63,615    18,290 15,597  16,991 38,523   15,667   105,068      168,683
Average Cost per Enterprise in  17,774  16,735 22,999 23,300  19,074  21,440  20,245      19,343
LE__                                            _
Employment Opportunities
No. of Permanent Jobs *     144,293  40,854 44,996 52,141  101,855  46,491   286,337      430,630
No. of Temporary Jobs **   43,427    12,253 13,499 15,644 30,558    13,947   85,901       129,328
Total Permanent Equivalent *** 158,769  44,938 49,496 57,356 112,041  51,140  314,971    473,740
% Loans to Women           24.5     27.5    28.8   28.1   24.2     22.9      27.2
No. of Banks               9         10     12     13      14       11       17           18
* Total number of permanent jobs calculated as unit cost per one permanent job = LE 7,000
** Total number of temporary jobs = 30% of total number of permanent jobs
*** Total number of permanent equivalent = 33% of total number of temporary jobs + number of permanent jobs.
35



Table 2: The Allocation of SEDO Loans by Economic Sector, 1997 - June 2001 (LE Million - Actual)
Economic Sector    Value LE Million  No. of Enterprises Average Loan Size  % of Loan per Sector
Industry              325.17           15,075            21,570            16.2
Agro-Business         476.38           34,908            13,647            23.8
Trade                 814.92           33,420            24,384            40.7
Services              381.61           15,368           24,831             19.0
Free Occup.           6.29             237               26,540            0.3
Total                 2,004.37         99,008            20,245            100.0
Operational & Policy Issues
SEDO has a flat organization structure with an overhead of about 1% of its invested capital. It operates through 9 zones
in 25 regions allowing it speed and flexibility to respond to market needs and to its clients and partners' requests (banks
and NGOs). It instituted over the past couple of years the principles of management by objectives and adopted
performance based incentive system for staff and management. It has succeeded in retaining highly competent and
motivated staff.
I -SEDO Transition into an Autonomous Financially Sustainable Institution.
Despite the impressive achievement, SEDO has come short of fully implementing the agreed steps for the transition into
a financially sustainable autonomous institution. In December, 1999, the issued a decree establishing SEDO as a
separate body from SFD. Despite its lack of clarity with regard to SEDO's autonomy as a financial institution, the
decree was considered a positive step towards the establishment of the institution. A number of issues related to the
nature, operations, and financial autonomy of SEDO remained unclear and were to be addressed by the Statutes. Among
these:
* The legal form of SEDO, SEDO could initially be 100% owned by SFD;
* Transfer of assets from SFD to SEDO;
*  The option allowing SFD to sell, over time and as and when it chooses, its shares in the subsidiary to
private sector;
* Tax exemption status when possible and particularly when profits are reinvested in the organization;
* The subsidiary to have its own board of directors with private sector and banking sector membership that
could be chaired by the Managing Director of SFD;
* The subsidiary to have its own budget, books of accounts and accounting systems, policies, regulations, and
procedures, that are approved by its own board of directors; and
* The ability of the subsidiary to take on liabilities (independently of SFD) from local financial market,
donors, etc.
The multi-donor review of January-February 2000, has also recommended the speedy completion of the transition of
SEDO into a financially sustainable and autonomous institution. The review of the status of the SEDO transition showed
that there was not much progress achieved since June, 2000. The transfer of assets from SFD to SEDO, did not take
place in full. SFD transferred only LE 15 million out of the LE 303 million cash in hands it owes to SEDO. In 2000.
SEDO drafted, with the help of an international consulting firm, its statutes, procedures manual and submitted them for
SFD's Board approval. To date there has been no approval.
The operational achievements of SEDO for the year 2000 have not been maintained during the first half of 2001, despite
the existing high demand on their services by the banks for quick disbursements. Not only was the transition process
brought to a standstill but organizational achievements that have contributed to the performance of the year 2000 of
SEDO, have been reversed (i.e. the financial authorization, personnel decisions are now being made by SFD
management and not SEDO). The additional unneeded layers by SFD's financial management in reviewing requests for
disbursements and payments of expenditures has dramatically slowed down SEDO operations. SEDO has qualified staff
and good finance and accounting departments ensuring proper financial management and control. The SEDO's structure
and systems in place, in addition to the annual external audits, provide for good financial control and should not be
slowed down by additional SFD layers. Moreover, SFD has been slow and irresponsive to SEDO's disbursement
36



requests to disburse in turn to its partner banks and honor its contractual agreements. SFD management has reported that
a restructuring of the SFD is being considered and will be discussed at the next CG meeting in October 2001. It was
reported that the restructuring is supported by the EU and considers among other things the grouping of the support
functions (MIS, HR, and ABC&T). A restructuring in which SEDO would remain under SFD's management, most likely
as it used to be, a program/department like the rest of the programs/departments, and that sustainability will be looked at
from the point of view of SFD as a whole with cross subsidization among programs. The grouping of SEDO's FOs under
SFD's regional offices would be counterproductive to SEDO's business, as these FOs have been trained in small
entrepreneurs monitoring and credit follow-up and can only be supervised properly by SEDO's FS and BS departments.
2-Ouality of Loan portfolio and Relations with the Banks
In order for SEDO to increase its contribution to the Government efforts to create jobs, it was agreed that it would do so
through a partnership with the banking sector for its outreach capacity and resources. For the banks to enter the Small
Enterprise Sector (SES), they need to be able to recover all their operating and financial costs, and should find it
attractive to do business with the small entrepreneurs. Therefore, SEDO had the difficult task of encouraging banks to
do business with the unconventional client: the small entrepreneur, helping them acquire the expertise to manage small
business portfolio, and encouraging them to mobilize their resources towards this market niche. In doing so, SEDO has
taken on more banking functions than its role would require did the financial intermediaries had the motivation and
capabilities to serve this client segment.
SEDO has taken on more banking functions than originally planned largely because participating banks have shown a
lack of interest and/or capacity in doing these themselves. The addition of functions such as Loan Portfolio Quality
(LPQ), Management Information Systems (MIS) for the loan portfolio, and loan collection is a necessary stop-gap
function, but should be strictly considered as temporary measures to stimulate banks to consider small enterprise sector
as a profitable segment to enter. The Association has expressed concern before about going too far on this path as going
farther could be difficult to reverse.
The differentiated interest rate structure (see table 3 below) was considered a transition step to move toward more market
based interest rates to achieve sustainability. It was not viewed as a final solution to the interest rate issue. The structure
as is, distorts the incentives of banks to enter this market segment, and particularly the very small entrepreneur market.
It does not allow the recovery of costs in the long run. SEDO claims that they are currently slightly above the break-
even point (see calculations in tables 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 & 4.5). However, should they need more funding, they would
have difficulty recovering costs with financial market borrowings. The interest rates applied are currently below the
market rates (the inter bank rate is at 9.1% as of end of September, 2001) for the majority of their portfolio, and opposite
what they should be. IDA has reiterated during the project supervision that banks should be able to charge higher rates
for riskier projects (small enterprises) and not the opposite.
Table 3: Portfolio Mix (up to June 30, 2001)
Loan Size      Portfolio mix  Portfolio mnix  Interest rates to clients Bank spread  SEDO interest
planned         actual       (final borrowers)               rate to the banks
Large Loans LE         10%            4.2%            11% new            3.5%           8.5%
200,000 +                                            13% existing
Medium Loans LE        50%           25.5%             9% new            3.0%           7.0%
50,000-200,000                                       11% existing
Small Loans less       40%           70.3%             7% new            2.5%           5.5%
than LE 50,000        _                              9% existing
SEDO has invested a great deal of effort and money in building a good MIS. A good information system, is a
prerequisite for SEDO's competitiveness, transparency, to understand its cost of operations, its loan portfolio quality,
clients and partners and its ability to make informed decisions for its future interventions. It has succeeded in installing
Oracle, a powerful financial management package and train its staff. The software is operational and generating
information and reports. The HR function is also currently computerized and operational. The issue facing SEDO with
regard to these two functions, is whether they will be merged with SFD's two departments. Faced with high arrears,
lack of data collection, and inability and/or lack of interest by the banks in monitoring closely the loan portfolio, SEDO
37



has taken up the monitoring function itself. SEDO MIS department has developed an in-house software known as the
Loan Portfolio Quality (LPQ) system. This was piloted in 10 bank branches and most of the work is being done by
SEDO at headquarters and regional offices by FOs.
Loan portfolio quality still remains largely unknown, due to: first, a lack of reporting by banks, and two, the limited
capacity of SEDO to follow-up on all the outstanding loan amounts. This is a genuine banking function, that needs to be
done by the banks. Over, the last three years, SEDO started addressing issues of arrears and LPQ.
Table 5 shows the loan portfolio data. Arrears as a percentage of due amounts represent 13.3% on average, as of end of
December, 2000. The percentage ranges between 7.5% at PBDAC and 73.2% at National Watany Bank. The latter bank
recorded high arrears due to the fact that the bank was operating centrally from three branches all over the territory.
Once disbursed, funds could not be monitored and followed up by bank personnel, given the fact that they are not close
to the entrepreneurs, resulting in high arrears. This was brought up to the attention of the bank's management by SEDO.
The problem is being addressed through the use of specialized decentralized bank windows that monitor and follow-up
loans more closely. This was complemented by the training of bank staff in follow-up and monitoring of small loans, as
well as FOs own, now, routine follow-up and monitoring of late repayments. This effort has allowed an improvement in
installments collections.
Not only do partner banks have a disincentive to follow their loans, because SEDO is doing it for them, but also because
they have neither the incentives nor the proper training for staff to do so. This is aggravated by the creation of a
guarantee facility that assumes a major part of the risk and as such, does not encourage banks to assume the risk
themselves. It constitutes a moral hazard. The differentiated interest rate structure and the fixed spread for banks that is
low, add to this situation.
Table 4.1: Cost of Capital/Cost of Fund
Description                    Percentage                      Amount
Weighted average cost of LTD =               2.197%                       26,695,307
(1215080000)
+ Cost of Equity & Retained Earning            3%                         39,930,000
(1331000000)
+ Hedging Provision of LE (1215080000)         3%                         36,452,400
= Cost of Capital                             4.05%                       103,077 707
+ Technical Assistance                        1.02%                       26,000,000
+ Operation Expenses                          1.09%                       28,000,000
= Cost of Fund Available for Sale             6.16%                       157,077,707
* Total Capital = 1,215,080,000+1,331,000,000=2,546,080,000
* Cost of Capital as a percentage = 103,077,707 / 2,546,080,000=4.05%
* Cost of Fund Sold = 157,077,707/2,546,080,000=6.16%
38



Table 4.2: Average Interest Rate on Loans to Fl
Loan Size    Interest Rate Due  Average Interest   Percentage of Each     Weighted Average
to SFD/SEDO        Rate Due to       Contract Amount       Interest Rate per
SFD/SEDO              Tranche               Tranche
Less than 50           4                 5.5                 40                    2.2
Thousand               7
Total                  11
Up to 200             5.5                 7                  50                    3.5
Thousand              8.5
Total                  14
Up to 500              7                 8.5                  10                   0.85
Thousand               10
Total                  17        1
100                   6.55
Table 4.3: Income Statement of the Fiscal Period (ended December 31, 2000)
Revenue                                   Amounts in
millions of L.E.
- Loan interest                                   72
- Deposit interest                                44
- Operating income                               116
- Operating expense                              (5)
Net income from operation                         60
- EU Grants                                       43
- IDA Grants                                     264
Net Income                                       367
39



Table 4.4: The Social Fund for Development/SEDO Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets as of December
31, 2000
Assets                                       Amounts in LE
Current Accounts                                 38,444,261
Time Deposits                                    54.000000
Total Cash at Banks                              92,444,261
Advances to Projects (Grants)                    55,192,141
Other Advances                                    1.834.153
Total Advances                                   57,026,294
Loans Granted to Finance Projects             1,672,396,537
Amounts due to SEDO from other SFD              303,690,223
Programs
Total Assets                                  2.125,557,315
Liabilities and Net Assets
Liabilities
Long-Term Loans Payable to Donors               738,797,075
Total Liabilities                               738,797,075
Net Assets
Reserved for Advances to Projects                55,192,141
Unreserved                                     1,331,568,099
Total Net Assets                              1,386,760,240
Total Liabilities and Net Assets              2,125,557,315
40



Table 4.5: Total Funding for the Period
Lender                       Amount                      Value in LE  Interest    W.A.
Rate
$         K.D.       D.M.      A.E.D.
L   3.9         13        1.8           1
Arab Fund I               1,440,0000                          187,200,000    3.0%     0.004621
Kuwait Fund I              1 ,440,000                         187,200,000    2.0%     1.003081
Abu Dhabi                                       183,550,000   183,550,000    2.0%     1.003021
Fund I
China          10,000,000                                      39,000,000      0%            0
Germany I                            10,000,000                18,000,000   0.75%     0.000111
Germany II                           10,000,000                18,000,000   0.75%     0.000111
Arab Fund II              21,000,000                          273,000,000    3.0%     0.006740
Kuwait Fund II            15,000,000                          195,000,000    2.0%     0.003209
Abu Dhabi                                        36,730,000    36,730,000    2.0%     0.000604
Fund
Germany III                          43,000,000                77,400,000   0.75%     0.000477
10,000,000  64,800,000  63,000,000  220,280,000  1,215,080,000         0.021978
A number of actions have been taken lately by the active FS staff of SEDO to mitigate those risks and improve the loan
portfolio quality, among these:
* A better selection of branches handling SEDO loans.
* The creation of special SEDO windows, where staff are trained and SEDO loans performance is part of
their work and is built in an incentive system in place.
* New framework contract between banks and SEDO have been developed, among other things requiring the
monthly reporting on all LPQ data. Clauses of the contract are amended to fit particular banks'
requirements for better monitoring.
* Completed the training of Field Officers.
* Training on follow up and monitoring of small loans of partner banks.
* Pilot project Dakahlya to install software in a few bank branches in portfolio monitoring. The model will be
replicated later in other banks.
3-TarFetinR Strategy and Impact Assessment
Like most of the programs at SFD, SEDO's targeting consisted of a geographic targeting based on poverty and
unemployment indicators in Egypt. While SEDO does not address the poor and the poorest directly, it does so indirectly
through the employment creation made possible by small entrepreneurs who benefit from SEDO loans. SEDO's targets
the unemployed and the small entrepreneurs. The programs cover a wide area of the country including the most remote
areas, through the existing web of bank branches. It targets all sectors of the economy and achieves a pretty good balance
in the distribution. Women represent 27% of the small entrepreneurs helped against a target of 30%. It, however,
represents a high achievement among the small entrepreneur population. SEDO is striving to achieve higher participation
of women.
As reported by the multi-donor review team, SEDO has adopted a subsidized approach to a broad mandate. This does
not allow SEDO to use the best of its resources. A more focused approach, where subsidies are targeted to needy clients
while applying market based interest rates to the rest of the clients should be considered.
Despite, the lack of impact studies on one hand (only two carried out thus far), its non-market based practices and
program shortcomings on the other hand, SEDO has achieved some positive impact. First, SEDO has succeeded during
the first phase of SFD to open up the financial sector to small entrepreneurs who could not otherwise have such access,
and to widen this access during its second phase. Banks have timidly started using their scarce resources to serve this
41



segment. Banks have also benefited from SEDO's continued support to improve LPQ management, through the various
means available to them: training of their staff, hardware and software availability, sensitization to SME sector issues,
etc.
Small loans are the most common product of SEDO, despite the built-in disincentives of differentiated interest rate
structure, the high risk, and SEDO's own portfolio mix plan. Over 70% of the loans are less than LE 50,000 thus
benefiting the very small entrepreneurs. The overall average loan size stands at about LE 20,000. SEDO has succeeded
somewhat in opening up the financial sector to the Small entrepreneurs and has contributed to the implementation of
SFD's social objectives of serving the poor and the unemployed.
Table 5: Loan Portfolio Quality - Amounts due and arrears as of December 31, 2000
Bank            Outstanding    Loan in Grace  Due Amounts Total Arrears Arrears as % of
Balances                                                 Due Amounts
National Bank of          524,785,220    174,978,895  243,425,460     37,151,468         15.3%
Egypt
Bank of Alexandria         85,702,209      9,734,252   58,973,912     10,183,111         17.3%
Banque Misr                72,236,343     18,300,159    36,068,368    9,465,967          26.2%
Banque du Caire            66,111,147     31,236,700   34,101,434      6,851,968         20.1%
PBDAC                     546,880,173    278,114,508  272,471,342    20,540,050           7.5%
Naser Social Bank           8,233,655      1,165,871     1,293,803      174,542          13.5%
El-Mohandes Bank            7,275,071      3,416,911      506,308        37,440           7.4%
National Watany            17,672,163      3,185,000    2,457,222      1,799,903         73.2%
Bank
National Bank for             930,272       435,000        90,768                          0%
Development
Industrial                  1,473,025       116,213       151,257                          0%
Development Bank
United Egyptian               798,812       670,000         6,188                          0%
Bank
Suez Canal Bank             4,428,773     2,239,331       408,852        94,051          23.0%
Misr American                 827,202                     317,945        87,778          27.6%
International Bank
Grant TOTAL              1,337,354,065  523,622,840   650,272,859     86,386,278         13.3%
Information on employment generation through credit to small enterprises is not available at SEDO. However, SEDO
has undertaken a couple of impact studies to assess the impact of its programs in creating job opportunities. SEDO is
also undertaking a new impact study to update its information in October 2001. The first two studies were conducted at
the end of Phase I. Their conclusion is that on average SEDO created 2.6 jobs per new enterprise and 2.1 per existing
one. These results ought to be taken with due care as both studies suffered from methodological "Sampling was not
based on statistical principles and the studies did not relate perceptions in the questionnaires with quantitative loan data
available with the banks" according to the Multi-donor review report (problems such as exclusion from the samples of
enterprises that discontinued their activities at the time of the studies). When these were selected and found to be
unavailable, they were replaced by other enterprises.
Jobs created varied between sectors with services and industry having the highest average number of jobs created per
enterprise respectively of 3.3 and 2.9 with the trade being the lowest at 1.8 jobs per enterprise (see table 6 below).
Relating average number of jobs created to the average loan size by sector, it appears that the agro-business, even though
it recorded the second lowest number of jobs created among sectors, creates the most jobs per dollar invested, followed
by the industry and services. The trade sector records the highest cost per job created almost double that of the others. As
far as sustainability, it is reported that the industrial sector creates more sustainable jobs than the rest of the sectors (a
sustainable job, being a job that lasts more than 18 months).
42



Table 6: Average change in No. of Employees before and after the EDPISEDO Loan and
Related Average Loan Size by Sector
Base = all      Average # of job     Average Loan size     Cost per job created
respondents         created (1)      As of June, 2001 in      In E.P. per job
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~E .P .(3)   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Agro-business                    1.9                  13,647                 7,183
Industry                         2.9                  21,570                 7,438
Services                         3.3                  24,831                 7,525
Trade                            1.8                  24,384                13,547
New Enterprise (2)               2.6               .
Existing Enterprise              2.1
(1) Source MDRR based on Final report of EDP Impact Assessment, MERAC, March, 1999, Cairo.
(2) the figure does not include the owner of the new enterprise.
(3) Source: SEDO, August, 2001, ICR-mission.
4. Role of SEDO
The SEDO (previously the Enterprise Development Program) was created with the broad objective of creating
employment through support for new and existing small enterprises by providing a package of technical assistance,
training and credit. SEDO is supposed to act as an apex institution for small business support and finance, delivering
loans to small enterprises through banks and delivering business services through NGOs and others.
The SEDO has acted as an apex institution and has created an important number of jobs and opened up financial services
to small entrepreneurs. However, SEDO has taken on more of a banking role than its objectives would allow. These
functions should be gradually phased out and replaced with advice and training services to banks. This would ensure
that banks will behave as bankers, such following up and monitoring their small entrepreneurs credit, and expanding
their services to the sector once they are convinced it is profitable and small entrepreneurs are bankable.
The SEDO draft statutes stipulate that SEDO will be formulating and implementing small enterprise policies in Egypt.
Moreover, the draft statutes reviewed by IDA, confer to SEDO the character of a principal financial institution
promoting, developing and financing SMEs in Egypt. This role is far beyond what the SEDO mandate should be. First,
combining policy formulation and implementation by the same institution, represents a conflict of interest for SEDO.
Policy formulation should be a Governmental role. SEDO can make proposals for improving the SME policies but
should not be the regulatory body. Second, SEDO cannot be the sole bank in charge of developing and financing the
SME sector in Egypt either. It does not have the capacity to do so. The main idea behind SEDO's loans was to show the
banking sector the way for which they have so far been reluctant to engage in (SME financing). The banking sector has a
higher potential with their existing network of branches to reach a larger market of small businesses not only through
SEDO's financing but also, eventually through their own funds once they are convinced that doing business with small
entrepreneurs, when properly designed and managed, can be profitable.
The SEDO should continue to play a major role in the SME sector through the two main functions that have great
potential: the Financial Services (FS) and the Institutional Business Development (IBD). Both of these departments have
a high potential of creating jobs without involving much additional capacity at SEDO. With the FS, help strengthen
banks involvement in the small enterprise sector, through funds for on-lending at first and when needed, and help them
develop their systems and capacity to monitor and follow-up on small loans. SEDO can play the role of counselor and
trainer of banks in these subjects, and continue to lead the way in pilot projects that show that SMEs are bankable. A
great deal of capacity building is required to improve the banking sector's performance, outreach and coverage.
Through the IDB, SEDO should continue to develop ideas for viable businesses and stimulate demand for replicable
packages and local area development projects and through tripartite agreements.
43



The Business services on the other hand, should see a shift in emphasis from trying to cover everything to more strategic
areas, i.e. geographically disadvantaged areas, professions and services that require more assistance and support, to avoid
stretching their capacity too thin to meet SEDO's increasing portfolio requirements. While doing some pilot work, BS
could concentrate on bank branches that have low repayments to focus on training their staff closely and help establish a
proper monitoring and follow-up culture at these branches.
The SEDO should be free of any political interference while carrying out its role. As part of the MDRR follow-up
recommendations, SEDO has embarked on the preparation of a mission statement and strategies to achieve SFD's
mission of poverty alleviation and job creation. Programs to be undertaken by SEDO should then be within this
mandate. Any political pressure to direct the efforts of SEDO outside its mandate should be avoided.
Sustainability of SEDO
Sustainability of SEDO is measured in terms of institutional set-up: autonomy, operations, financial well being, the
established relationship with its partners financial institutions, and the sustainability of the small enterprises.
As explained before, SEDO's autonomy and institutional set up as an autonomous business type institution is not
complete in many regards. The SEDO does not yet have a separate Board of Directors, statutes, approved procedures,
and an approved clear organization structure. The SEDO is still very dependent on SFD's decisions. Even previous
achievements such as payment authorization, personnel decisions, that were made at SEDO's level, have been reversed
and are now at the SFD's level. Financial sustainability is also questionable with the below market interest rate which
does not allow SEDO or its partners to recover their costs and maintain their capital. The non payment by the
Government of its contribution and lack of full transfer of assets by the SFD, make financial sustainability more difficult
to achieve. SEDO is currently experiencing a cash flow problem and will be unable to maintain its level of activities in
the current year.
However, SEDO recently presented to KfW a plan aiming at achieving sustainability before the end of the year 200]. If
implemented, a number of issues raised above will be resolved and SEDO can move towards sustainability as a financial
institution. This would require: (i) a strong commitment from the SFD governing body, the Government, SEDO's awn
governing body once established, SEDO's partners, and the donors for the years to come; (ii) clearly defining its role and
mandate within the Egyptian context; and (iii) achieving all the remaining steps of the transition plan (market based
interest rate, charging of fees, SFD and Government transfer of their due financial contribution, establishment of
SEDO's board of directors, approval of SEDO statutes, etc.).
1/ CEQOMA stands for the process from the initial contacting of the client by the FO, assisting him/her with the
business plan for getting a loan, to monitoring and after sale services. C= initial contact, E= Elaborate a business plan,
Q= Queue i.e. loan application and business plan submitted to a bank and awaiting approval, O= Order i.e. the bank
granting a loan, M= Monitoring and A= After sale service.
44



Additional Annex 11. Human Resources Development Program (HRDP)
The HRDP was set up to target the unemployed and/or the potentially unemployed following the introduction of the
Egyptian Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP). The HRDP focuses on: training projects for the
unemployed youth; projects geared towards the public enterprise workers made redundant due to privatization efforts;
and studies and capacity-building projects on a national level.
The ICR mission found one error in the Appraisal Document, under Annex 4, page 2 of 3, under the Small and Medium
Enterprise Skills Development Component, where it was stated that "this component will not finance stipends of trainees
and salaries of trainers". This was in error, since the project would normally finance such activities.
In addition, ineligible expenses were found under the HRDP for expenses related to severance payments. This is being
rectified by the SFD to reimburse these amounts which according to estimates amount to about US$2.8 million (or 20%
of total cost).
To date, the following was achieved for the program as a whole:
Activity                                         Planned      Actual      Percentage  Average
(1997-       (1997-      Achieved    unit cost
2000)        2000)                   per
And                     worker in
tentative               LE (and
to 1/01-                US$
6/01                    Equiv.)
I. Labor Mobility Component
Public Enterprises
No. workers who received compensation for early  3,000        20,017      667%        5,648
retirement                                                                            ($1,371)
No. redundant workers who received training     6,000         1,452       24%         2,210
_____ _____ ($536)
No. workers who received assistance for starting new  6,000   3,094       52%         5.157
businesses                                                                            ($1,252)
Private Enterprises
No. workers who received training               5,000                     NA
II. Enterprise Skills Development
No. workers in small & medium size enterprises who  7,000     10,668      152%        1,503
received training                                                                     ($365)
Exchange rate used at 4.12
Retirement (age 52-54 + grade), based on years of service (LE 10,000 increased to LE 35,000/year); SFD finances 30%
or LE 7,000 which ever is less.
Retraining program for redundant workers is from about 2 weeks to 1 month.
Trainees trained under Skills Development amount to between 3-6 months.
The high percentage under the Labor Mobility component for the number of workers who received compensation for
early retirement is explained by the high number of workers who preferred this program rather than the re-training
program which does not guarantee them long-term employment. In addition, the amount financed by the Government
increased from LE 10,000 to LE 35,000 which was a greater incentive to participate in the program. This also explains
why only 24% of the redundant workers participated in the training program.
The private enterprises did not respond to this program given the existing labor laws where a position is "permanent",
and those who would receive training would have to leave their "permanent" jobs in order to benefit from the training.
This was not an incentive to the workers concerned.
45



Under the Enterprise Skills Development, a large number of workers were interested in receiving training because of the
nature of the training being provided (such as management and accounting skills).
The HRDP approach, as with all SFD programs, works through sponsoring and/or executing agencies to implement the
projects and achieve its objectives. The use of executing agencies enables the Program to have access to all the technical
capacity in the country, which in turns allows the program to run with limited overhead. In the case of redeployment
projects, the sponsoring agencies are usually the holding and affiliated enterprise companies. In the case of youth
training projects, the sponsoring agencies are either the training centers, trade associations, ministries or public
authorities.
The program for the unemployed youth uses two main methods. First, the contract training method involves the timely
provision of customized training for an enterprise or group of enterprises that is intending to hire new employees. The
training organization delivers to the target groups training programs that are specifically tailored according to the needs
of the employer. The enterprises and HRDP jointly finance the training projects. Second, for workers in the public
and/or private enterprises, the HRDP uses the Egyptian Labor Adjustment Services (ELAS) method. ELAS provides
financial incentives to businesses, organizations, communities and sector groups to help employers and workers meet the
challenges of adjusting to industrial change. Due to the lack of well-established employment services in Egypt, ELAS
has adapted two structured models which have been used successfully in other countries. The first such model is the
New Future Initiative (NFI), developed originally in the United Kingdom. The second is the Labor Pool Model, based
on experience in the Netherlands.
The NFI is intended as an early intervention when the threat of layoffs is identified. It aims to reduce redundancy levels
with limited disruptions and by inciting volunteers. The basic concept of NFI is to set up a type of in-house employment
services office within the existing management structure of the enterprise, which operates as an integrated functional
department, interacting with all the other departments. NFI is staffed by a highly professional team of counselors and
specialists in fields such as small enterprise development, spin-offs and buy-outs, job placement, training, and industrial
relations. The full understanding and effective participation of the workers' union in the design and presentation of the
support package are essential for NFI's success.
The Labor Pool Model is used either when the number of laid-off workers is high, when a quick decision is needed to
separate the workers from the companies, or when there exists political pressure or interest to prevent or reduce the risk
of excluding retrenched workers from the labor market. The Labor Pool is a separate institution which functions as a
kind of employment services office, and acts in part as a production agency and providing human resources for
temporary work. Its objective is to employ and retrain redundant employees; avoid mass unemployment; initiate new
market activities which can be sold on a commercial basis; lend out employees for temporary work in other enterprises;
gradually reduce staff with the use of redeployment options; and acquire financial means to support its operations.
The HRDP invites and receives applications for projects aimed at providing training and employment for youth from a
range of institutions, including: the Executive Committee of the Supreme Council for Human Resource Development;
companies which are intending to employ more labor; and training centers which need equipment and development in
order to train youth for identified job opportunities.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The HRDP has 15 staff members of whom two are seconded from the Ministry of
Manpower. Eight of the staff are responsible for assisting, enabling and monitoring of HRDP projects. On average,
each staff member is responsible for six projects, which represents a heavy workload, since this involves checking out of
new project proposals as well as responding to project requests, making regular visits to projects, and preparing monthly
reports to the HRDP Director on status of projects. The data at HRDP headquarters is of relatively good quality, and
incorporates data which is disaggregated by gender. However, financial data is not readily available on a system-based
module as the MIS is not yet fully operational. Data resides with the SFD's Management Fund Unit (see section on MIS
for further details).
At the national BRD policy level, HRDP is actively involved through its links with the Executive Committee of the
Supreme Council for Human Resources Development (HRD). Through its studies and capacity-building projects, HRDP
46



also implements some of the policies developed. HRDP is therefore one of the key players in the national IRD. This is
recognized by the Government and the technical secretariat. In addition, HRDP has extensive contacts with public sector
companies through its public enterprise workers' projects. It influences policy in the privatization process through its
development of early retirement, retraining and redeployment methodologies and works closely with the Ministry of
Public Enterprises. Furthermore, HRDP has many dealings with the private sector. Its policy of training only for direct
employment in public and private enterprises has involved it in extensive dialogue with the private sector on skills that
are in demand but not available in the labor market. This has developed into additional dialogue with training centers
and has resulted in some highly successful projects which match people, skills and jobs.
For the third phase, the HRDP will be phasing out the redundancy packages in order to concentrate its resources more on
training and further promoting the tools which were developed during the second phase. In addition, a large study is
being undertaken to establish a national occupation classification and career counseling system for Egypt.
The HRDP has included capacity-building in all its activities. This has been carried out for training centers and
enterprise training facilities which aim to provide training in the skills required in the labor market. This has involved
re-equipping ministerial training centers and curriculum development and training of instructors and associated activities
in centers and enterprises.
The studies undertaken are:
Study of Demand in the Egyptian Labor Market
The National Survey of Vocational Training Centers in Egypt (1)
Study for 60 Training Centers in Gov. & NGOs
The National Survey of Vocational Training Centers in Egypt (2)
Complementary Study for the Demand in the Egyptian Labor Market (ongoing)
Ratings, Conclusion and Sustainability: The component is rated as Satisfactory for the reasons outlined above, despite
the lag incurred in establishing itself within the organization and at the level of the National Council.
The HRDP is currently dependent upon external donors and the Government for the necessary funds to finance its
projects. In the longer term, HRDP is searching for an integrated funding system which guarantees the wide range and
continuous application of BRD services to the target groups. Through its technical secretariat role, HRDP has already
held discussions with government, employers' and workers' representatives and intends to continue the dialogue in an
effort to establish such funding among interested parties. Until that funding is established, HRDP will continue to
depend on donors to finance its catalytic role in encouraging and promoting effective solutions to HRD problems
affecting the poor, the unemployed and the retrenched workers.
In addition, the HRDP is exploring ways of cost-recovery for the training programs it implements, either through fees-
for-service, or by establishing a reimbursable system whereby trainees upon completion of the training, and finding
useful employment, reimburse at least 75% of the training costs.
47



Additional Annex 12. Gender & Environment
Gender
The Gender Unit was established within the SFD in January 1996. Their main focus was to operationalize and
institutionalize gender activities throughout the main programs, as well as within the management of the SFD. Several
study tours took place during the course of 1997, including the training of SFD staff. In addition the Unit established a
checklist to be used across the programs during the identification and appraisal stages of sub-project preparation. The
checklist also includes indicators on how to address and assess gender issues. These are fully incorporated in the PWP
and HRDP programs, but have yet to be fully integrated within the CDP programs.
The Unit has been involved in several international and national activities/conferences. It has commissioned several
studies, and booklets have been produced for dissemination at national workshops and conferences.  The Unit
collaborates with the Egyptian National Council for Women, and has been involved in a pilot project in three
governorates on the "legal empowerment of women".
Many programs, including literacy, micro-credit and health initiatives are reaching women. Overall, gender is
mainstreamed within the SFD and its regional offices. However, there still exists some resistance on the value-added of
gender concerns. In addition, the hiring of female personnel in the regional offices has been problematic given the
existing national cultural environment. Each Regional Office has a designated Gender Focal Point which has been
trained in the methodologies. However, with high turnover rates of the Gender Focal Point, additional training has been
required for each new Focal Point. Though at first, this was deemed as problematic, it has turned out to be a positive
experience, as more regional office staff have become further aware of the Gender agenda of the SFD. More needs to be
done, such as the development of gender concerns within the organizational structure, through the update cf the
organizational manuals outlining gender concerns, and hiring qualified female managers whenever possible which would
promote a gender conscious environment. The Gender Unit is the only unit headed by a female Director.
There are plans to be agreed upon in reaching targets of at least a 25% female ratio in the Board of Directors of the
CDAs. The SEDO target of 35% has been reached where main loan beneficiaries are women.
The Gender agenda now requires a clear goal, while influencing the way the SFD programs work and on measuring
impact. The work program could continue to focus on gender issues in poverty alleviation, staff, field worker and
partner organization training, and influencing the content of program activities, and beneficiary involvement in project
identification/preparation. Beneficiary participation requires continued efforts, and the Gender Unit should contir,ue to
assist in ensuring effective stakeholder participation in all program activities.
Environment
The environmental program started in 1999. Its primary focus was to train the SFD staff and regional office staff on
environmental concerns, develop guidelines and indicators, and train implementing agencies. It is in the process of
implementing the Environmental Management Plan (undertaken for Phase III), namely developing and implementing
environmental strategies for the SFD programs; environmental training; developing a monitoring plan, incluading
indicators and auditing schemes; providing technical assistance to the SFD programs; environmental review of SFD
programs; developing proposal writing and best practice guidelines; raising environmental awareness; and implementing
pilot environmental projects.
48



To date the EDU has undertaken its own set of projects outside of the PWP and CDP as follows:
Name                  Actual                  Start      Expected End     Status
Progress                 Dated          Date
as of
6/30/01
Financial    Physical
Environmental Preservation in Bani  83      80         May 2000     October 2001    On-going
Shebl Village-Sharkia
Public Health Preservation in Kafr  82      80         May 2000     October 2001    On-going
El Ghonemi Village - Sharkia
National Program for Solid Waste  On average  On       November     November 2001   On-going
Management                      22          average    2000 (on     (on average)
(comprising 8 sub-projects)                 22         average)
Integrated Project for the Utilization  31  31         July 2001    June 2002       On-going
of Biogas Units for the Treatment
of Animal and Human Wastes in
Bani Suef governorate
Utilization of Renewable Solar  0           0                                       In Final
Energy for the Provision of Potable                                                 Appraisal
Water for El Ababda Bedouins in
the Red Sea governorate
Environmentally Sound Hospital  0           0                                       In Final
Waste Mgt. In Sharkia governorate                                                   Appraisal
Environmentally Sound Solid     68          40         January      January 2002
Waste Mgt,. In Helwan                                  2001
Environmentally Sound Hospital  0           0                                       In Final
Waste Mgt,. In Dakahleya                                                            Appraisal
governorate
Environmentally Sound Hospital  0           0                                       In Final
Waste Mgt. In Beheira govemorate                                                    Appraisal
Environmentally Sound Hospital  0           0                                       In Final
Waste Mgt. In Samalot-Minia                                                         Appraisal
governorate
Environmentally Sound Hospital  0           0                                       In Final
Waste Mgt. In Gharbia governorate                                                   Appraisal
Environmentally Sound Hospital  0           0                                       In Final
Waste Mgt. In Beni Suef                                                             Appraisal
governorate
Integrated Program for the Pollution  0     0                                       In Final
Reduction in Charcoal Kilns in                                                      Appraisal
Qalybeya governorate
Recycling of Agricultural Waste in  0       0          NA           NA              Under
Abo-Homor and Itay El-Baroad                                                        Preparation
Marakez in Beheira
Upgrading of Beni Suef Slaughter  0         0          NA           NA              Under
House in Beni Suef governorate                                                      Preparation
During the course of the year 2000, the EDU worked on translating the concepts of environment and development into
practical interventions at the operational level. In addition, the EDU developed a training program with the Gender Unit
aimed at assisting local NGOs in ensuring that gender issues are considered and that women's representation was
49



ensured throughout the different stages of their environmental projects, starting from the needs assessment stage right
through the monitoring and evaluation stages of the project.
Training is a cornerstone of the EDU's agenda, and building the capacity of SFD staff as well as sponsoring agencies
through a series of seminars and workshops throughout the govemorates is key. Topics covered relate to national
environmental legislation and regulations, impact assessment and possible mitigation measures, environment and
development of solid and hospital waste management, raising environmental awareness as well as other governorate-
specific topics and concerns as requested by the regional offices.
The EDU is collaborating with the MIS and Fund Management Unit to update the existing monitoring system and the
indicators needed for the system.
The Environmental Unit needs to further strengthen its evaluation process to ensure sustainability of its projects as well
as those aspects within the PWP and CDP programs. There is little focus on management of sustainability at the local
sub-project level, especially with the introduction of new technology (such as solar power). The Environment projects
within the PWP scope fall within the same problems encountered with regard to O&M, and they are unable to secure the
additional funding from SFD sources to add to the community contribution for O&M. The EDU is planning on
implementing (once funding is secured) a sub-project which is integrated with the other aspects of the SFD programs in a
predefined rural village. This would encompass sanitation works, solid waste management, infrastructure, and education
and health facilities.
50



Additional Annex 13. Financial Management
MIS
The current status of the MIS system was reviewed to evaluate the extent of development taken to date. While significant
progress had been made since our last review, much remains to be done:
*   Link with regional offices is not yet in place due to connectivity issues and the need to modify the system
itself to accommodate for input from the field.
*   In order to ensure the new system's integrity and reliability, the financial modules are operating in parallel
to the old system, till end of September 2001. Unfortunately, only expense balances were transferred from
the old to the new system (i.e., no details). In addition, the old system will remain in place for other
modules (e.g., personnel) which could lead to security and control issues if not properly maintained.
*   Although the MIS department received no comments on the new systems, thereby assuming satisfaction
with the new design, many reports are still being issued either through Excel or the old system (e.g., cash
flow statement, donors' accounts). In order to fully utilize the new system and reap its benefits, that is
increased efficiency and effectiveness, fund management should enter all relevant data in the new system
(e.g., agreements) and agree with the MIS on report formats.
*   Also, it was noted that certain programmed application controls are not applied to specific modules (e.g.,
limit tests, embedded audit modules, audit hooks, transaction tagging, etc.).
Project Management Reports (PMRs)
The MIS is capable of generating some Project Management Reports (PMRs) (e.g., sources and uses of funds, cash
withdrawals, cash forecast) but the system is still not ready to produce a full PMR package as it is not yet designed to
generate procurement reports. The Departments concerned (Internal audit, MIS, programs, and finance) should work
together to ensure that a full set of PMRs is issued as soon as possible given that the original due date for this activity
was mid-1999.
Policies and Procedures
The SFD has a full set of accounting and procurement policies and procedures in place. Compliance with these policies
and procedures is imperative for a sound financial management system. Procurement audits revealed various instances of
non-compliance that highlighted the need to train, monitor, and guide staff on those policies. The new procurement
policies and procedures should be constantly updated and reflected in the new MIS to enable the system to generate
PMIRs and various procurement reports.
Based on the newly adopted payment authorization policies (i.e., external audit prior review and Government's signature
for all payments above L.E. 50,000) the process of getting payments released requires more than 15 different signatures
and can take up to four months to get the final Government's approval (currently more than 70 payments are pending).
This process does not only affect the SFD but also projects financed by other donors.
Internal Audit
An organization the size of the SFD should have an Internal Audit Department (IAD) which is adequately staffed with
competent and qualified personnel, independent, and sufficiently funded to ensure that the SFD objectives and fiduciary
responsibilities are being met. Unfortunately, the SFD's IAD is not meeting the above criteria.
In accordance to the SFD regulations, each project implemented by a sponsoring agency should be audited in two phases
by the IAD. The first audit should take place prior to the first disbursement to ensure that sponsoring agencies have
adequate financial management systems. The second audit is conducted at project completion (close-out audit - based on
the results of the close-out audits, the advances' balance relating to each project should be settled against its actual
expenses). As both audits are almost never carried out due to lack of staffing and time, a balance amounting to LE 1.687
51



billion is erroneously recorded in the balance sheet as "advances to projects" when most of this balance relates to fully
implemented projects awaiting to be audited (i.e., to become officially closed).
IDA had identified these weakness more than two years ago in its financial management action plan but all
recommendations concerning this matter have not been implemented (e.g., risk based audit approach, hiring new internal
auditors, out-sourcing some of the functions) and no alternatives have been developed.
External Audit
The annual financial audit for the SFD is conducted by KPMG-Hazem Hassan. Although, the quality of the audit
generally meets IDA's minimum requirements, serious issues are worth noting:
*   The Management letter relating to the audit for the year ending December 31, 2000 is final;
*   serious issues were raised such as the unrecorded liability amounting to L.E. 97 million which Aould
require an adjustment in the financial statements, and which should affect the auditor's opinion was not to
be found in the audit report but was included in the management letter;
*   the newly developed MIS system was not reviewed as part of the financial audit of FY2001; and
*   the sample of projects audited is insignificant to the SFD as a whole especially as the audit procedures
applied at the project level identified "questioned costs" and "instances of non compliance with
agreements".
To complicate matters, the project's auditors have been hired by the SFD to perform agreed-upon-procedures to attest
whether the SFD's policies and procedures are being followed with regard to payments above LE 50,000 (audit before
payment). This could seriously impair the auditor's independence and objectivity while performing the final year-end
audit.
SEDO/SFD split
The SFD audited financial statements package for the year ending December 31, 2000 included a separate set of
financial statements for SEDO (with no additional disclosures).
From a financial management perspective, SEDO is still operating under full SFD control. Financial and human resource
policies and procedures need to be approved by the SFD. In addition, final authorization for transactions (e.g., payments,
hiring, training) is still controlled by the SFD.
SEDO's financial management capacity
During the short period of SEDO's implementation, it managed to recruit competent and qualified personnel in various
departments (e.g., treasury, finance, human resources, MIS) and to develop and procure advanced MIS systems.
Although there are still vacant positions, namely in the finance department, and important financial planning and
budgeting modules are not yet procured, the overall system is capable of handling operations. SEDO hired a consultant
to develop financial policies and procedures a year ago, but the manual has yet to be approved by the SFD.
SEDO's finance department prepared a detailed cash flow forecast for seven years starting in 2001 to help asses: it's
sustainability. It was noted that for 2001, only LE 15 million out of the LE 303 million due to SEDO from the SFD has
been paid. In addition, The Government's overall share amounting to LE 250 million has not been paid according to
commitments. SEDO's management envisages to borrow money from the local market starting in 2002 to help fund its
operations. However, the expected interest rates by banks could be inhibiting and accordingly SEDO should search for
other means of funding.
52



