Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15267-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
April 25, 1996
Human Resources Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
(as of April 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$ I  =  LE3.4
LE I  =  US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           African Development Bank
BOD           Board of Directors of the Social Fund
CAPMAS        Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
CDP           Community Development Program of the Social Fund
EC            Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of the Social
Fund
EDP           Enterprise Development Program of the Social Fund
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ERSAP         Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOE           Government of Egypt
HRDP          Human Resources Development Program of the Social
Fund
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDP           Institutional Development Program of the Social Fund
IDA           International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LMP           Labor Mobility Program
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
PPP           Purchasing Power Parity
PVO           Private Voluntary Organization
PWP           Public Works Program of the Social Fund
SA            Sponsoring Agencies
SLWP          Small Scale Labor Intensive Works Program
SFD           Social Fund for Development
SFDC          Small Business Finance and Development Corporation
SOE           Statement of Expenses
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WTO           World Trade Organization



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary                                                                                                                     Page
1. BACKGROUND  AND  ASSESSMENT OF THE  FIRST  PHASE .....................................................................1I
A. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND .................................................................I
B. SOCIAL FUND: EVALUATION  1993-95 AND PROPOSALS FOR FUTURE SUSTAINABILITY ............................................I
C. SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE  SOCIAL FUND .................................................................4
D. RATIONALE FOR IDA  INVOLVEMENT .................................................................4
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .....................................................................S5
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................................5
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................5
C. COST AND FINANCING .................................................................6
D. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .................................................................7
Operating Procedures of SFD ....................7,.........,,.......7
Project Monitoring ........................................................................................................,,....8
Planned Reviews....................9
SupervisionPlalan..................................,.,.,.,.,.......,,,,,,,,,,,,,,........,,,,,,,,,,,.,,Plan,.,.,.......,,.,,,.......,.,,.,......,,9,,.,...
E. SUSTAINABILITY .9
F. PROCUREMENT.10
G. DISBURSEMENT.I1
H. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS .12
3. THE PROJECT EXECUTION AGENCY .12
4. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT .13
A. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .                                                                                                                13
B. RISKS.1. 4
C. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND PARTICIPATIONR..                                                                                                       14
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .14
This staff appraisal report and the accompanying memorandum were prepared based on the findings of an appraisal mission
during December 6 to 21, 1995. Mission members included: Mr. Qaiser Khan (MN2HR, Task Manager and Mission Leader),
Ms. Judith Brandsma (PSD, Small and Microenterprise Specialist), Ms. Randa El-Rashidi (MN2HR, Human Resources
Specialist), Mr. Takatoshi Kamezawa (MN2HR, Education Specialist) and Mr. Mario Zelaya (MN21E, Environmental Engineer).
The mission was joined in Egypt by a parallel European Union mission. The report was produced by Ms. Mira Hong. The
managing Division Chief is Mr. Jacques Baudouy and the managing Department Director is Mr. Inder Sud.



TABLES
TABLE 1.1: COST OF JOB CREATION FOR DIFFERENT SOCIAL FUNDS IN US$/JOB .........................................................2
TABLE 2.1: PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY IN US$ MILLION ..............................................................6
TABLE 2.2: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY IN US$ MILLION ............................................................7
TABLE 2.3: MONITORING INDICATORS FOR PHASE II ..............................................................8
TABLE 2.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS IN US$ MILLION ........................................... 10
TABLE 2.5: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (IDA CREDIT) .............................................................  11
ANNEXES
ANNEx 1:  PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
ANNEx 2:  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ANNEx 3:  ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ANNEx 4:  HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ANNEX 5:  SFD ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS FOR PHASE 11
ANNEx 6:  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND CRITERIA FOR SUB-PROJECTS
ANNEx 7:  MONITORING DURING PHASE 11
ANNEx 8:  PARTICIPATION AND TARGETING
ANNEx 9:  DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES



EGYPT
SECOND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                     Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agency:         Social Fund for Development
Poverty Category:             Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:                SDR 82.3 million (US$120.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms with 35 year maturity
Commitment Fee:               0.50% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Project Objectives and        The objective of the project is to help: (a) create jobs through support
Description:                  of small enterprises and labor-intensive works; and (b) support
community infrastructure and services in partnership with NGOs and
local groups. This will be achieved through building on the strengths
of the 1993-96 phase of the SFD by supporting various programs
during 1997-2000, including labor-intensive works; community
development projects; small and micro-enterprise development; and
support to workers made redundant by public sector reform or
increased competition due to trade liberalization.
Financing Plan:                                       US$ million
IDA                                 120                 15%
European Union                      200                 26%
Arab Funds                          170                 22%
UNDP/ADB                             14                  2%
Bilateral Donors                     97                 13%
Government and
Beneficiaries                       174                 22%
TOTAL                               775                100%
Economic Rate of Return:      It is difficult to estimate an ERR given the difficulty of quantifying
benefits of upgrading public health, environment, literacy and other
services. Based on a sample of projects financed during 1993-96 under
the first project, the ERR for the project activities for which benefits
are quantifiable, accounting for some 75 percent of project cost, is
estimated to be 21 percent (see Annex 5 for details). These estimates
should be treated with caution given the subjective nature of many
assumptions.
Map:                          IBRD 27482






Arab Republic of Egypt
Second Social Fund Project
Staff Appraisal Report
1. BACKGROUND AND ASSESSMENT OF THE FIRST PHASE
A. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.1    In response to a difficult economic situation caused by falling oil prices and the Gulf War, Egypt embarked
on a broad economic adjustment program with support from the World Bank and the IMF. The main stabilization
goals have been met and provide a basis for sustainable economic growth. The principal problems which still
persist are high levels of poverty and unemployment. Between 20-30 percent of Egyptians are estimated to live in
poverty, and a recent survey found the unemployment rate, when adjusted for underemployment, to be close to 21
percent. Eighty-five percent of the unemployed are between 19 and 29 years of age, and most are recent graduates.
1.2    The high level of poverty is not just a social and equity issue: those factors which cause widespread
poverty also contribute substantially to the lack of broad-based growth.  Egypt has the potential to develop a
dynamic and forward-looking small enterprise sector which could lead to both broad-based employment generation
and poverty reduction. Egypt also has age-old social structures and community groups which are close to the
people (particularly the poor) and can play a strong role in the country's economic development. Broad based
economic growth that harnesses the energies of Egypt's small entrepreneurs and community organizations can also
help reduce the attraction of extremist political movements, thus contributing to political and social stability.
B. SOCIAL FUND: EVALUATION 1993-95 AND PROPOSALS FOR FUTURE StISTAINABILITY
1.3    Social Fund for Development (SFD): The SFD was set up in 1991 at the height of the Gulf crisis. Its
activities between 1993-96 (referred to as Phase I while Phase 11 refers to 1997-2000) was supported by many
donors including IDA through Credit No. C2276-EGT approved by the Board on June 21, 1991. This credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1996. The SFD was conceived with three objectives: (a) to help
reduce poverty through supporting employment generation and community development efforts; (b) to help mitigate
the possible negative impact of the Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP); and (c) to
provide help to the Gulf returnees. These objectives were to be achieved through five programs: Public Works
Program (PWP) to support labor intensive construction projects; Community Development Program (CDP)
including support for microenterprise and community based social services; Enterprise Development Program
(EDP) to help new and on-going small enterprises; Labor Mobility Program (LMP) to help labor adjust to economic
reform; and Institutional Development Program (IDP) to support the SFD secretariat as well as poverty monitoring
through surveys and studies. A review of SFD performance by the Government (SFD-Mission Beyond 1996,
October 1994) concluded that the SFD has been very successful. A more recent evaluation was done by the World
Bank based on information collected using the following methods: (a) extensive in-depth field visits; (b) impact
survey in five govemorates; and (c) review of administrative data from the SFD and its partners. The World Bank
evaluation confirmed the previous positive assessment of 1994, though it found that some areas needed
improvement. The evaluation findings are summarized below.
1.4    The SFD met its first objective. It was able to create 50,000-70,000 jobs per year, i.e. almost 25 percent of
annual non-agriculture jobs created. The SFD did this without crowding out the private sector, primarily by
supporting small enterprises which previously had no access to banks. The second objective was to be met by
helping workers made redundant through public enterprise restructuring or privatization. This objective was only
partially met as the pace of privatization/restructuring was slower than expected. The SFD also partly met the third
objective by creating employment opportunities for Gulf returnees. The SFD met its employment creation objectives
with annual expenditures equivalent to only 0.2 percent of GDP, or about 6 percent of annual donor flows to Egypt.
This job-creation cost compares favorably with other countries, based on data from various units within the World
Bank (see Table 1.1). SFD's achievements are given in Annex 5, and an assessment of its various programs
follows.



Page 2                                                                 Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
Table 1.1: Cost of Job Creation for Different Social Funds in US$/Job
Egypt Honduras iNicaragua Madagascar Bolivia Senegal Ghana
Cost per Job at Market Exchange Rates    1,401  2,1201    2,5801    786   2.700   5,445  2,122
Cost per Job at PPP Exchange Rates  7,212     9,759    14,302     3,260   9,388  12,100  10,610
Source: Bank Staff Estimates
Box 1: How the SFD has an Inmpact on the Poor
The small dusty village in Fayoum lies close to the edge of the cultivated area, where green gives way to desert. At
the tail-end of a water distribution system running from a canal bringing Nile water, the village receives a lot of
contaminated water which has already passed through other places. SFD helped residents to build a waste water
treatment plant constructed with :local materials. Labor accounted; for over 50 percent of the cost. The villagers
contributed almost 25 percent in:cash. In the same village, the SFD helped develop a community center and runs a
women's adult literacy program.  The literacy program has been helping young girls who have dropped out of
school due to family financial pressures to learn reading, writing and arithmetic. In another part of Fayoum, a
young businessman with support from SFD has created ernployment opportunities for 10 women by setting up a
smaIll business to clean and repackage agriculture products. The businessman himself is not from the poorest group
of residents but his employees are.
1.5    Public Works Program (PWP): The objective of this program was to transfer income while developing
local infrastructure by creating employment through the use of labor intensive but efficient public works. The
program has met the objective of generating employment while constructing quality works in collaboration with
local Governments and communities. The principal problem encountered during Phase I has been operations and
maintenance (O&M) of SFD financed infrastructure. Though local Governments have provided assurances of
supporting operations and maintenance and Governors have included this in budget requests, resources have not
been forthcoming due to fiscal constraints. The SFD is developing an approach to involve local communities in
operations and maintenance. The proposed approach calls for setting up users associations, which would collect
voluntary contributions in cash or kind from beneficiaries. To encourage these associations, the SFD would provide
matching funds for maintenance activities on a downward sliding scale. (Annex I, para.14 provides details).
Box 2: Restoring Pride in a Forgotten Community
Toad village lies close tolEgypt's great tourist attractions around Luxor, but a visit there reveals living conditions
hard to imagine outside the:worst refugee camp. A survey indicated that 73 percent of children under 12 in the
village suffer from: intestinal infections and diseases. lTe main causes for this were identified as a lack of sanitary
habits, poor sanitation andT waste disposal and an. excess: of flies surprising even in this poor corner of Egypt. The
local Community Development Association had very limited resources and appealed to the SFD for help. The
SFD's community. development program designed :a program including: health and environmental awareness
campaigns, spraying of flies, construction of septic pits, and establishment of a mechanism for solid waste collection
and disposal.  .The. village remains poor but conditions: have improved, and the villagers are proud of the
improvements they have brought about in their lives.
1.6    Community Development Program  (CDP): The objective of this program  was to help the poorest
communities, giving priority to their most vulnerable members. The range of activities supported by the CDP
includes: (a) social services such as literacy classes, health care, family planning, etc.; (b) micro-enterprises to
increase the income of the poorest households; and (c) community centers which provide a base for social services
and recreational activities. In the course of its operations, the CDP has adopted a very participatory approach and is
also supporting the development of NGOs. About 73 percent of direct beneficiaries were rural, and 66 percent were
female. Two issues persist and need to be addressed during Phase II (refers to SFD between 1997-2000). The first
issue is providing sufficient resources to support O&M of SFD financed activities. This issue is being addressed by



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                               Page 3
establishing users' groups, as in the case of PWP, for each of the financed activities. The second issue is the lack of
market orientation for the CDP microenterprise and training activities: the CDP has sometimes provided training for
skills which are saturated or have no market. This problem will be addressed by closely monitoring local market
conditions before approving support for enterprises (Annex 2, para.32).
1.7    Enterprise Development Program (EDP): The objective of the EDP is to help create employment through
support for new and existing small enterprises by providing a package of technical assistance, training and credit.
The difference between the CDP and the EDP lending activities is that the average CDP loan is US$500 and credit
is extended through NGOs, while the EDP's average loan is US$4,000 and credit is extended through banks. Bank
lending is complemented by technical assistance and is provided through NGOs. Banks take the full commercial
risk of their lending and hence have sole loan decision authority. The program has disbursed over LE 700 million to
intermediaries for on-lending and has spent substantial additional resources to develop and deliver technical
assistance packages. Over 60,000 sub-loans are outstanding, and 25 percent of the borrowers are female.
1.8    Given current interest rates to final borrowers, as well as the spreads that the banks can charge, the interest
rate on a loan to an existing small business is slightly above inflation (spread of 3 percent) while the interest rate on
a loan to a new business is slightly below inflation (spread of 4 percent). Interest rates to final borrowers are
reviewed on a yearly basis. Repayment rates appear good, although this conclusion is based on limited data as
many sub-loans are still in the grace period. The banks started their first repayments to the EDP last summer and
these funds will be re-lent. About 40 percent of loans were for start-up enterprises and thus, the EDP program
provided access to the banking system for borrowers who otherwise would not have received a loan. In total,
120,000 permanent jobs were created (measured as a job still in existence one year after its creation). Forty-three
percent of loans are for small industry, 21 percent for services, 23 percent for agriculture and animal production,
and 11 percent for trade. Unemployed graduates are a priority target group of the EDP.
Box 3: Harnessing Egypt's Talentfor Entrepreneurship
Galal (name changed) leaves the shop area and, despite the fact that he has lost a leg, goes rapidly up a set of steep
stairs to his workshop. His small business in the market area of Aswan is thriving: he employs ten people making
clothing. This would have seemed an impossible dream when he joined the handicapped training programn jointly
offered by the SFD and the Ministry of Social Affairs. He completed his training and qualified for a small loan
under the productive families sub-project supported by SFD's community development program. His business
continued to grow and he has expanded with a loan from a bank through SFD's enterprise development program.
SFD support has helped this determined individual, and through him helped also his ten employees.
1.9    The EDP was designed primarily as a "job-creation" mechanism to assist entrepreneurs and to disburse
loans quickly and efficiently without much regard for issues affecting sustainability of the SFD itself. It has
successfully helped thousand of borrowers while operating under a set of (often conflicting) donor demands and
constraints. The EDP in effect acts as a successful wholesale small business support and finance agency, delivering
loans to small businesses through banks and delivering business services through NGOs. During the assessment of
Phase I of the program, it was agreed that the issue of sustainability needs to be addressed in Phase 11. This would
require that: (a) SFD on-lending to banks carries an interest rate sufficient to maintain the value of SFD funds in real
terms; (b) the cost of the services provided by SFD staff is recovered in the long-term, directly or indirectly, from
the banks/beneficiaries; (c) the banks have a sufficient spread to cover their costs, including an allowance for
default; and (d) the EDP, while maintaining its social objectives, is managed as a self-standing commercial program.
A Task Force including SFD staff, banks and donor representatives has been established to identify means of
achieving these goals, and it has issued a preliminary report which has been made available to the World Bank and
other donors. Thefindings of the Task Force has been developed into a business plan which was discussed during
negotiations; its execution has been included as a covenant in the Credit and Project Agreement (para. 5.2).
1.10    Labor Mobility Program (LMP): The objectives of this program were to provide workers in restructured
or privatized public sector enterprises with financial assistance, training and placement services. The original



Page 4                                                             Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
program was intended to help 50,000 workers at a cost of US$90 million. Since the Government's privatization
program moved considerably more slowly than was expected, the demand for LMP activities was limited and
donors agreed to reduce the program to US$40 million (with the funds being reallocated to other programs),
implicitly reducing the target to 20,000 workers. So far the program has assisted 3,000 workers in three enterprises
and is currently working on assisting an additional 10,000 workers in seven enterprises.
1.11   Institutional Development Program  (IDP):  The IDP's objectives included support for (a) SFD
management; and (b) poverty monitoring in collaboration with researchers and CAPMAS (Central Agency for
Public Mobilization and Statistics). The management of the SFD has been efficient (overhead costs are 6 percent of
disbursements). CAPMAS/SFD completed a survey (living standards measurement) in 1993 which provides data
for poverty analysis. The survey includes data to update price indices and the GDP deflator.
1.12    Gender Targeting: The SFD targets women as a special group for assistance: 25 percent of EDP loan
beneficiaries were women, which is higher than would be expected given Egypt's entrepreneurship patterns, and
compares favorably to other enterprise development activities which achieve a 10 percent target of support to
women. Over 60 percent of CDP beneficiaries were women, including a third of the micro-entrepreneurs.
C. SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE SOCIAL FUND
1.13    Managerial Autonomy: The SFD's managerial autonomy in terms of decision making, procurement and
disbursements is a major factor behind its success. The Board of Directors (BOD) and its Executive Committee
(EC) set policy and leave day to day management to the Managing Director.
1.14   Role of NGOs: NGOs play a prominent role in SFD programs, particularly in the areas of community
development (CDP) and enterprise development (EDP). Up to July 1995, NGOs managed LE 100 million out of LE
192 million approved for CDP sub-projects (52 percent), and LE 609 million out of LE 1,406 million approved for
EDP sub-projects (43 percent). Thus, the SFD has also been able to attain its objective of working in partnership
with NGOs. NGOs provide an essential link to communities and are able to articulate community concerns well.
Their role will become even more prominent in Phase II. Initially the SFD had to rely primarily on government
sponsored NGOs, but it has been able to broaden the range of NGOs it deals with and thus to broaden its appeal to
communities. Close collaboration with the main religious NGOs as well as with the Egyptian Red Crescent and the
Family Planning Association has helped the SFD to work with smaller NGOs and community groups through the
use of a mentor system. Many of these smaller NGOs are now working independently, mostly in poor rural areas
(NGO-SFD relations are discussed in Annexes 1, 2 and 3 in the context of various programs).
1.15   Role of Donors: Donors have played a major role in supporting the SFD in the past. This strong support
can be attributed to donor interest in supporting Egypt's poor and unemployed and also to the SFD's demonstrated
efficiency. SFD effectiveness has been recognized by many donors who provided funding, including the European
Union, Denmark, France, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the Arab Fund, the Kuwait Fund,
the Abu Dhabi Fund, China and India. Many donors have pooled their funds with the World Bank Group during
Phase 1. Others have worked in parallel. Without this vigorous and sustained donor support, SFD's initial progress
would not have been possible.
D. R4TIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.16   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Egypt discussed by the Board on March 24, 1994
recommended a strong emphasis on poverty reduction through development of human resources (see paragraphs 37-
42 of Report No. P-6263-EGT) and using the contribution of Egypt's small entrepreneurs. The World Bank has
taken a broad based approach in the social sectors and has supported projects in basic health and education. The
support to SFD is providing a vehicle to help reduce poverty and improve living conditions by creating employment
and supporting community development.  The proposed project will support activities designed to reduce
unemployment and increase growth by harnessing the productive capacity of Egypt's small entrepreneurs and
community groups. It also provides an important vehicle to support World Bank/NGO partnership.



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                             Page 5
1.17    The Government of Egypt requested the World Bank to take the lead in developing the project and in
convening the donors meeting because of the World Bank's : (i) global experience with social funds, (ii) technical
and financial support for Phase 1; and (iii) experience in mobilizing donor resources. The donors meeting was
chaired by the World Bank and was held on April 16th through 17th, 1996. The meeting was hosted by the
European Union at their headquarters in Brussels. The meeting was able to raise US$775 million for Phase II
including US$174 million from Egyptian sources. The IDA Credit has been a catalyst for raising US$481 million
from other donors.
2.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECrIVES
2.1    The project objectives are to help: (a) create jobs through support of small enterprises and labor intensive
works, and (b) support community infrastructure and services in partnership with NGOs and local groups. These
objectives would be accomplished through building on the strengths of the first phase of the SFD. The issues raised
in paragraphs 1.5 to 1.9 will be addressed to assure that the SFD is more sustainable, more highly targeted and more
efficient during Phase II.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.2    The proposed second phase of the SFD will include the following programs:
(a)    Small-scale Labor Intensive Works Program: The SLWP will build on the public works program,
with an increased focus on community partnership and targeting. Sub-projects will continue to be
executed in close cooperation with Governorates. the local branches of the relevant technical
Ministries and the concerned community.
(b)    Community Development Program: The CDP would build on the current program and continue
to focus on (i) community and NGO participation, (ii) capacity building and (iii) targeting of
women, the poor, and the unemployed. CDP sub-projects will continue to be executed in
partnership with NGOs and the beneficiary communities, with involvement of local authorities at
the planning stage.
(c)    Enterprise Development Program: The EDP has evolved into a credit program providing loans
to banks for on-lending to entrepreneurs and a technical assistance program for entrepreneurs
through NGOs. During implementation of Phase II, the EDP would be restructured according to a
business plan (agreed with the World Bank) designed to assure long-term sustainability.
(d)    Human Resource Development Program: The HRDP would build on the public enterprise labor
mobility program but extend its mandate to support labor mobility in private sector companies
affected by trade liberalization. The program would also provide support on a matching grant
basis to small enterprises that wish to train their workers. Grants would be transparent and would
be larger for skills with higher mobility. The labor mobility program would be executed in
partnership with the enterprise concerned, while training services would be provided under
contract by the private sector.
(e)    Institutional Development Program: The IDP would support SFD management as well as poverty
monitoring and other studies linked to poverty and social safety nets.  During Phase 11,
decentralization of functions would increase through transfer of responsibility for programs to
SFD's regional offices when feasible. This would allow even closer association with local
Governments than is now the case.



Page 6                                                               Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
C. COST AND FINANCING
2.3    Costs: The project will be implemented over a four-year period. The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$775 million net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange cost of US$27 million. As summarized in Table
2.1, it is expected that US$92 million (12 percent) would be allocated to Small Scale Labor Intensive Works,
US$208 million (27 percent) to Community Development, US$354 million (46 percent) to Enterprise Development,
US$80 million (10 percent) to Human Resources Development, and US$40 million (5 percent) to Institutional
Development. No contingencies have been applied as the project supports envelopes for programs rather than
specific activities. Detailed project costs are shown in Annex 9.
Table 2.1: Project Costs Summary (in US$ million)
Local      Foreign     Total      % Foreign      % Total
Exchange.   Project Costs
Small-scale Labor Intensive     92.0                    92.0                        12
Works
Community Development           208.0                  208.0                        27
Enterprise Development          354.0         -        354.0          -             46
Human Resources Development     60.2         19.8       80.0          25            10
Institutional Development       34.0         7.0        41.0          17            5
Total Project Cost              748.3        26.7       775.0         3             100
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
2.4    Financing: The financing plan for Phase 11 was finalized during a donors meeting held in Brussels on
April 16-17, 1996. During the meeting, contributions of US$526 million dollars were confirmed by donors in
addition to the Government contribution. The following donors formalized contributions during the meeting: the
Arab Fund, Denmark, the European Union, France, Germany, the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom, IDA, and the UNDP. In addition, other donors such as the Abu Dhabi Fund, the African Development
Bank, Korea and Switzerland have confirmed their interest and are expected to add at least US$75 million. The
Egyptian Government pledged the equivalent of US$120 million, double their Phase I contribution. Egyptian
NGOs and beneficiaries are expected to contribute at least $54 million, so that the financing of Phase II would
include $174 million (22%) from domestic sources, and $601 (78%) million from external sources. Ninety percent
of total financing is confirmed. The proposed IDA credit of US$120 million would cover 15 percent of total Phase
11 costs. Other donors are expected to provide parallel financing for Phase II with the exception of the Netherlands
contribution of US$20 million which will be in the form of joint-cofinancing with IDA and will be disbursed
through IDA. The financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2 (the Arab Funds category in Table 2.2 includes the
Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund).



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                                       Page 7
Table 2.2: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category (in US$ million)
IDA    European    Arab      U`NDP/    Bilateral    Govemment,    Total
Union     Funds     African                Beneficiaries &
Dev. Bank                   NGOs
Small-scale Labor Intensive Works  25        20         -          5           42            -           92
Community' Development             50        40        15          5           28            70          208
Enterprise Development             30       120        150         -           20           34           354
Hluman Resources Development       iS        10         -          -           5             50          80
Institutionial Development          -        10        5           4           2             20          41
Total                              120      200        170        14           97           174          775
D. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Operating Procedures of SFD
2.5     The project will be implemented by SFD in accordance with its established procedures.  These are stated
in its Operational Manual, which was developed in consultation with the Government and donors. The mission
found the manual to be acceptable though occasional revisions will be required to take into account changing
conditions on the ground. During negotiations the borrower and SFD gave assurances that the statutes, by-laws
and operating procedures of SFD will remain acceptable to the World Bank Group at all times (para. 5.2).
2.6     The SFD executes projects in partnership with development partners - Govemorates, NGOs, commercial
banks and Ministries. Proposals for a wide range of activities are submitted to one of the SFD programs by partner
agencies. For example, a proposal could involve several rural roads and water supply systems for a particular
region. The activities, each of which is referred to as a sub-project, would be executed by SFD in cooperation with
the proposing agency. The package of proposals (called a sub-programn) could include activities such as a waste
water plant in one village, a road providing access to a second and a community center in a third. Individual
proposals are screened to assure that they do not replicate activities undertaken by other agencies or include
activities with harmful social or environmental side-effects. Sub-program proposals as a whole are then subjected to
economic and environmental analysis. Full economic and environmental analysis is required when sub-program
size exceeds US$500,000. Due to their small size, it is not possible to carry out this level of economic and
environmental analysis for most sub-project proposals. In these cases, a screening process is used to determine cost-
effectiveness.
2.7     Sub-project Cycle. The SFD initiates and accepts sub-project proposals submitted by sponsoring agencies
(SA) to any ten of the regional or six satellite offices. Selection of proposals is based on two sets of criteria. The
first is contained in guidelines focusing on regional allocations which are established in the Operational Manual.
These regional allocations are based on the distribution of poverty and are made for public works and community
development sub-projects only. For public works, the regional authorities set priorities on the basis of both poverty
within the region and demand from communities, while for community development, NGOs play a much greater
FThis report uses the following terms: project refers to the overall Second Social Fund Project, program refers to specific SFD programns
such as Public Works, Community Development etc., sub-program denotes the group of activities within a defined area carried out in
partnership with one implementing agency and the term sub-project is applied to specific activities such as a road or a community center.
SFD itself uses the word project for what is called a sub-program here and the word activity for what is called a sub-project here.



Page 8                                                                    Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
role in identification (see Annexes I and 2 for process and Annex 6 for criteria). After preliminary screening by the
regional and satellite offices, acceptable sub-projects are forwarded to the national office for a detailed desk and
field appraisal.  Sub-project appraisal at the national office emphasizes technical feasibility and social and
institutional analysis as well as simplified economic and environmental analysis. Two types of criteria apply. In
addition to meeting the criteria contained in the Operational Manual for regional allocations, proposals are evaluated
for cost-efficiency, level of community commitment as expressed by contributions in cash or kind, and geographical
balance (with a bias towards poorer areas). During Phase If the Operational Manual will be updated and revised
following periodic consultations with the World Bank Group and other donors. The objective of these revisions is
to refine SFD procedures in light of experience gained in Phase I so that the effectiveness of its operations may be
increased. Criteria which have been tested and proven to be effective will be added, while care is taken to avoid
adding so many of these criteria that rapid execution might be hampered. During negotiations assurances were
received that the SED Operctional MUanual will be periodically reviewed and updated in consultation with the
World Bank Group (para. 5.2).
2.8     The average time for sub-project processing, from reception of a sub-project proposal to approval, has
averaged about 4.5 months while the average implementation period for sub-projects has been 12 to 18 months.
Upon formal approval of a sub-project, a framework agreement is drawn up between SFD and each Sponsoring
Agency (SA) specifying the responsibilities of each party; procurement methods; implementation schedules;
financial terms and conditions, the SA contribution; supervision; and handover mechanisms.
Project Monitoring
2.9     Project monitoring indicators are provided in Table 2.3. Because the SFD is a demand driven institution,
actual outputs are subject to change: the estimates in Table 2.3 were derived from Phase I experiences. In addition
to the indicators in Table 2.3, the SFD's monitoring system (described in Annex 7) will generate a wide range of
information to provide SFD management and donors with the information necessary to measure progress, targeting
and efficiency. In addition to process monitoring, impact monitoring would be done through surveys, beneficiary
assessments, and complementary studies. This will provide continuous feedback on SFD impact on beneficiaries.
These surveys are done under contract by research institutes and not by SFD staff. The first impact surveys have
been completed.
Table 2.3: Monitoring Indicators for Phase II
Item                                               1997          1998          1999        2000
Kilometers of Potable Water Networks                125           125           125          125
Kilometers of Rural Roads improved                  100           100           100          100
# of Health Awareness campaigns                      33            33            33           33
# of people in adult literacy classes             4,000         4,000         4,000        4,000
# of Microenterprise Loan Recipients             10,000        10,000        10,000       10,000
# of small entrepreneurs helped                  10,000        10,000        10,000       10,000
% Female among Community Development
Direct Beneficiaries                                 50            50            50           50
% Female among small entrepreneurs helped           25             27            28           30
Temporary Jobs in person years                   20,000        20,000        20,000       20,000
Number of Permanent Jobs                         50,000        50,000        50,000       50,000
2.10    The SFD currently prepares monthly progress reports which include the following information by region
and sector: (a) sub-projects presented, appraised, in execution, completed, and evaluated, including the number of
projects and beneficiaries, amounts committed and disbursed, and average cost per beneficiary per project; (b)
sources of funds for each sub-project; (c) SFD staffing, indicating any changes that may have taken place; and (d)
operating costs. Annual financial and technical audits will provide independent information.



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                          Page 9
Planned Reviews
2.11   Impact assessments and related studies will be complemented by a mid-term review aimed at assessing the
administrative, financial and technical aspects of sub-projects as well as the institutional efficiency of SFD.
Specifically, the review will: (a) evaluate project performance during implementation; (b) provide management with
feedback on project achievements and shortcomings; and (c) document the status of project execution for the benefit
of the Borrower and the financing agencies.  Following the mid-term review, agreed corrective actions will be
implemented expeditiously. In addition to the mid-term review, Annual Implementation Reviews (AIR) would be
conducted by the SFD, donors and the World Bank Group. These reviews would analyze: (a) financial performance
and budget execution against projected targets; (b) workplan and budget proposals for the following year; (c)
recurrent budget implications of SFD investments; (d) adjustments required in project design and implementation
schedule; and (e) results of evaluation studies and indicators on sub-project quality and impact.
2.12    During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it and the World Bank Group will carry out an
annual review of project implementation not later than November 30 each year on the basis of appropriate
documentation prepared by SFD that would include the budget and work-plan proposals for the following year.
During negotiations assurances were also received that the World Bank Group and the Government would carry out
a mid-term review no later than November 30, 1998 to: (a) evaluate the impact of sub-projects on beneficiaries and
the sustainability of sub-projects; and (b) make recommendations on thefuture orientation of the SFD. Assurances
were given that the Government would implement all actions agreed with the World Bank Group as a result of the
mid-term review. It is understood that the mid-term review will replace the annual review in 1998 (para.5.2).
Assurances were also given that SFD would submit semi-annual progress reports to the World Bank Group, not
later than three months after the end of each semester (para. 5.2).
Supervision Plan
2.13   The SFD is now one of the most effective implementation agencies for World Bank/IDA projects in Egypt,
reducing the need for close supervision.  Supervision will focus on continuing program  assessment and
sustainability. Several key conditionalities would be monitored through World Bank Group supervision, including
implementation of the EDP business plan and periodic revisions of the SFD manual. The proposed project would
be supervised jointly by the Headquarters staff and resident mission staff with the latter being responsible for
routine procurement and disbursement matters. The Task Manager will provide support on policy matters and carry
out supervision missions. Due to the importance of EDP transformation, a World Bank specialist in enterprise
development will be used regularly. Supervision for Phase II is expected to be combined with that for Phase I until
the closing date. For the two projects combined, it is expected that during FY97 about forty staff weeks will be
needed to assist in the transfornation of the EDP, resolution of the O&M issue and the revision of procedures for
CDP microenterprise development and training. The need for supervision resources is expected to drop to 20 staff
weeks in FY98. The European Union plans to place two international experts in Egypt to supervise Phase I.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
2.14   Three aspects of the project need to be considered with regard to sustainability: the SFD as an institution,
its sub-programs, and individual sub-projects. Sustainability of the SFD as an institution in the intermediate horizon
is assured, as donor interest and support remain high. The SFD is proving to be an important vehicle to help the
central authorities work with regional authorities: it has shown very good results on the ground and in helping to
build capacity at the regional and local government level and has developed into one of the most efficient and
effective agencies in the country. Several Ministries, including Education, Health and Population and Public Works
have requested that it help execute their own programs. While many SFD activities can be transferred to local
authorities over time and parts of the SFD such as EDP can become financially sustainable, the World Bank's global
experience indicates that this will happen very slowly and the need for SFD will continue over a fairly long time.
The Government's long-term commitment to SFD is evident through the increase of its financing share for Phase I.
Strong donor support was confirmed by the successful donor meeting.



Page 10                                                                   Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
2.15    During Phase 11, the SFD's enterprise development program is expected to gradually become financially
sustainable. The labor mobility support to be provided by the human resources program is designed to meet a
transitory need and would eventually be phased out. Activities included in the labor intensive works and
community development programs should eventually be moved to local and regional Governments, once Egypt
completes its decentralization process. The SFD supports the decentralization process by helping to build local
capacity to develop and execute projects of interest to communities. The sustainability of individual CDP/SLWP
sub-projects would be assured by selecting proposals which are both carefilly screened and have strong beneficiary
support manifested by contributions in cash or kind. During negotiations, the SFD gave assurances that it would
develop a program for improving O&M of CDP/SLWP projects by December 31, 1997 (para.5.2). The
sustainability of the investments financed by EDP would be assured by the application of commercial financial and
business principles in their selection and approval.
F. PROCUREMENT
2.16    Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines
using standardized local bidding procedures and contract forms developed by SFD and agreed with the Bank.
Procurement during Phase I has proven to be economic and efficient, and procurement during Phase 11 will build on
Phase I experience. The SFD and the Sponsoring Agency (local government and NGO) would jointly procure
goods and civil works for sub-projects. This approach, shown to be transparent and fair during Phase 1, results in
the selection of the lowest bidder. The SFD's procurement arrangements under the existing framework agreement
require packaging of sub-projects only when significant implementation efficiencies would result. Table 2.4
summarizes the project components, their estimated costs and the proposed method of procurement. Most activities
to be financed during Phase 11 are currently on-going and using Phase I resources. Phase 11 activities can start
immediately.
Table 2.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
NCB              Other          Not IDA          Total
financed
Civil Works                  7.1             35.1 a           66.0           94.4
(7.1)            (35.1)           (0)           (28.4)
Equipment                                     8.3 b           58.2           80.3
(8.3)            (0)          (22.1)
Credit Funds                                 31.4 c           300.9          332.3
(31.4)           (0)           (31.4)
Technical Assistance                          8.5 d           73.0           81.5
(8.5)            (0)           (8.5)
Training                                     29.6 e           129.2          158.8
(29.6)           (0)           (29.6)
Salaries                                                      22.6           22.6
(0)            (0)
Operations and                                                 5.1            5.1
Maintenance                                                    (0)            (0)
Total                        7.1             112.9            655.0          775.0
(Total IDA)                 (7.1)            (112.9)           (0)          (120.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to befinanced by IDA.
a Contracted to communities.
b Procured through international or local shopping.
cPrudent shopping to commercialpractices.
dAwarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines on consultants.
'A warded in accordance with Bank Guidelines on consultants



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                         Page 11
2.17    Procurement for SFD Sub-Projects: Procurement under EDP loans will follow commercial practices.
These are relatively small loans (averaging under $4,000) and it is expected that the recipients would shop prudently
and according to their needs. Civil Works undertaken by the SFD will include: expansion of potable water
networks, construction of rural roads and cleaning public irrigation canals. Civil works contracts will include small
works usually not exceeding US$150,000 in dispersed communities. Due to the nature of the works and the
difficulty of large packaging, it is not expected that any work contract exceeding this amount will reach a size large
enough to justify ICB. Civil works between US$150,000 to US$3 million would be awarded through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), but foreign contractors will not be precluded. Contracts between US$50,000 and
US$150,000 will be procured through NCB with bid advertisement within the Governorate only. Civil works under
US$50,000 would be procured through community contracting and such contracts will not exceed an aggregate of
US$3 million. Goods and equipment to be financed by the IDA Credit include primarily materials for social
services, e.g. medicines, educational materials, etc. No contracts for goods and equipment are expected to exceed
US$300,000. Goods and equipment contracts with an estimated value not to exceed US$5,000,000 would be
purchased through International Shopping or UN Procurement agencies (as permitted under para. 3.9 of the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January, 1995). Due to the efficiencies
achieved through using local shopping contracts under the SFD Phase I, continued use of local shopping during
Phase 11 will apply to contracts under US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,300,000.
2.18   Technical Assistance and Training: Technical assistance and training will cover services to help small
entrepreneurs, support for community social services and feasibility studies for sub-projects. Consultants will be
appointed following the World Bank's Consultant Guidelines and will be recruited locally through competitive
selection. Consultant assignments will include monitoring, evaluation and administrative support to the SFD. Egypt
has qualified local consulting firms with the expertise required to carry out these functions, including knowledge of
local dialects and traditions.
2.19    Procurement Review Thresholds: Bidding packages for IDA financed contracts above the threshold of
US$500,000 for civil works and US$250,000 for goods and equipment would be subject to prior review procedures.
The threshold for prior review of consultant services would be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms,
US$50,000 for individuals and all sole source contracts and terms of reference regardless of the contract value. All
other contracts will be subject to selective post award review. The SFD will be responsible for following
monitoring procedures and for maintaining proper records for easy review by IDA. It is expected that two thirds of
NCB contracts for civil works and one third of NCB contracts for goods and equipment will be subject to post
award review.
G. DISBURSEMENT
2.20   The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of about four years and would be completed by
December 31, 2000, the project completion date. This disbursement pace is faster than other projects in Egypt but
consistent with Phase I experience. The last date for presentation of sub-projects by SFD to the World Bank Group
would be June 30, 2000. The closing date of the IDA Credit would be June 30, 2001.
Table 2.5: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Fiscal Year   1997      1998      1999      2000
Annual           25        35        35        25   1
Cumulative       25        60        95        120
Percentage      20%/0     50%       80%       100%_  j
2.21    Estimated disbursements by IDA fiscal year are shown in Table 2.5.  There would be only one
disbursement category: SFD sub-projects and disbursements would be 100 percent of amounts disbursed to
implementing agencies against statements of expenditures for all contracts up to the limits for prior review (para.
2.18). Contributions by the implementing agency and by entrepreneurs are expected to cover taxes and other costs.



Page 12                                                              Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
2.22    To ensure that funds are readily available, SFD would open a Special Account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank. An initial deposit of US$12 million, corresponding to about
four months of expenditures under the project, would be advanced to the account from the IDA credit. The Special
Account would be replenished monthly, or after one third of the initial deposit amount has been disbursed,
whichever is sooner. During negotiations the Government agreed that the Special Account and the SOEs would be
audited in conjunction with the annual audit of SFD's accounts (para 5.2).
H. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
2.23   Independent external auditors, acceptable to the World Bank, would conduct annual financial and
functional audits of SFD. Functional audits would examine a sample of sub-programs and sub-projects, review
individual contracts and compliance with contract terms, inspect the progress of civil works, reconcile the physical
progress with the financial expenses incurred, and state whether procurement guidelines were being followed. The
reports would be submitted to the SFD Board not later than three months after the end of the fiscal year. Annual
audit reports would cover SFD's balance sheets and income statements and include the auditor's assessment of the
financial statements, as well as separate opinions on: (a) project accounts; (b) SOEs; (c) the Special Account; (d)
whether procurement of all contracts was carried out in accordance with agreed guidelines; (e) the adequacy of the
intemal controls system; and (f) the sample of sub-projects examined to see whether SFD guidelines are followed.
At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: independent auditors, acceptable to the World Bank Group,
would conduct annual audits of SFD's accounts, and annual technical and managerial audits of SFD's operations;
and that SFD would submit certified copies of the annual audit reports, which would include any adverse material
findings and an annual summary of the quarterly functional audits no later than six months following the end of the
Government's fiscal year (para. 5.2).
2.24    The SFD would maintain consolidated accounts for the entire project, and detailed accounts for individual
sub-project grants. Sponsoring agencies would be required by the sub-project agreement to establish appropriate
accounting systems. The SFD would assist sponsoring agencies in developing appropriate accounting procedures.
3.  THE PROJECT EXECUTION AGENCY
3.1    The SFD was established by presidential decree in 1991. It is an autonomous agency with legal personality
as well as technical, financial and administrative flexibility. It reports directly to the President of the Republic. The
organization did not become fully operational until early 1993. The SFD Board of Directors (BOD) acts as a
technical steering committee. It is chaired by the Prime Minister, and is comprised of fifteen members, including
eight ministers and seven representatives from the private sector. Ministerial representation on the BOD eliminates
duplication of efforts and ensures adherence to sector priorities. The BOD sets SFD's operational guidelines,
prioritizes its annual budgets and financial contributions and authorizes disbursements.
3.2    The Executive Committee (EC), chaired by the chairman of the BOD, consists of eight members from the
private sector. The EC evaluates projects submitted to the SFD prior to presentation to the BOD, and is authorized
to approve projects from US$500,000 to US$3 million. Acting on behalf of the BOD, the EC also approves
guidelines for manuals and sub-projects, establishes guidelines for implementation of projects approved by the
BOD, delineates resource availability, and maintains regular contact with donors. Day to day operations of the SFD
are the responsibility of the Managing Director (MD), who is appointed by the Board. He approves sub-projects of
less than US$500,000, authorizes all disbursements and prepares progress reports and presents these to the BOD.
The MD heads a staff of 133 people, distributed into departments by sub-project themes, as well as administrative
and support services (see Annex 6 for details).
3.3    The SFD's well-defined administrative structure contributes to its efficient management. The current
structure will largely be retained, but will place a stronger emphasis on the demand driven approach and on
decentralization of authority and functions. The main office in Cairo sets overall strategy, prepares technical plans
and budgets for sub-projects, handles financial transactions, and provides operational support and guidance to ten
regional and six satellite offices outside of Cairo. These offices are the main point of contact between requesting



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                                   Page 13
agencies and the SFD. They provide advice to communities, NGOs and regional governments on SFD procedures,
process applications, conduct appraisals, and support implementation.
3.4     SFD financed sub-projects have been implemented rapidly and efficiently, with operating costs averaging 6
percent of total disbursements. This figure compares favorably with other Social Funds (Senegal and Nicaragua are
at 5 percent, Bolivia at 5.5, and Honduras at 10 percent). Fifty percent of operating costs are allocated to the
enterprise development component, 22 percent to the community development component, 20 percent to the public
works, 6 percent to human resources development, and 2 percent to institutional development. Over a period of
three years, the SFD contracted 200 sub-projects for a total value of US$370.52 million, with an average of US$1.86
million per project.3 Of the US$204 4 million received from donors, US$191 has been disbursed, representing 94
percent of available funds.
3.5     The SFD's efficiency is explained by its: (a) effective management style; (b) status outside the civil
service; (c) administrative structure, which has clearly delineated lines of responsibility and accountability; (d)
partnership with local communities, close association with NGOs and local governments; and (e) use of
standardized project types, which simplifies project preparation and processing. The acceptance rate is 65-70
percent of proposals submitted, which is comparable with other social funds.
4. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
A. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.1     The project is expected to have significant benefits in terms of employment creation and in helping lower-
income families through enhanced income generation. Based on Phase I experience, it is estimated that the project
would create 200,000 permanent and 80,000 temporary jobs. The results of a beneficiary profile survey carried out
in five Governorates show that SFD beneficiaries are poorer than the population at large, thus confirming the
validity of the SFD's approach. Overall, it is estimated that the project would help raise the incomes of I to 1.5
million people.
4.2     In addition to its direct impact on poverty, the project would have two other significant benefits. First, it
would create significant social and economic infrastructure in the poorer communities. Second, the active
involvement of NGOs and local communities in all aspects of sub-projects through Phase I has given a strong sense
of empowerment to people who may otherwise have felt disfranchised. By continuing this in Phase II, the project
would contribute to social stability. In this respect, SFD has been a model for other programs in Egypt.
4.3     Economic Evaluation: It is difficult to calculate an ERR for the overall project given the difficulty of
quantifying the benefits of some of its activities, such as upgrading public health and the environment and providing
job-training. Nevertheless, the SFD attempts to quantify benefits wherever possible, using measures of willingness
to pay for community services; estimates of travel cost savings (roads); rental values (community buildings); and
enhanced prospects for earnings (technical training and enterprise development). A minimum threshold rate of
return of 12 percent is required for sub-project approval. Based on a sample of projects financed during Phase I,
and extrapolating across the entire program, the rate of return for activities with quantifiable benefits (which
account for 75 percent of project cost), is estimated to be 21 percent (see annex 5 for details). This estimate should
be treated with caution given that is based on subjective assumptions. Sensitivity analysis indicates a rate of return
of 15 percent would prevail even if the benefit estimates were reduced by 20%.
2
US$191 million have been disbursed through sponsoring agencies.
3
There is an active pipeline of sub-project requests totaling US$241 million.
4
Committed resources from the 17 donors is in the amount of USS613.1 million. However, the actual flow of funds to SFD started in March
1993 and reached USS204 million by September 30, 1994.



Page 14                                                                 Egypt: Second Social Fund Project
4.4     Besides ERR, the SFD also uses measures of cost-effectiveness to review sub-projects. It ensures that sub-
project costs and cost per beneficiary are within sub-sector norms. As indicated previously, the cost per job created
of UJS$1,401 compares favorably with other social funds.
B. RisKs
4.5     The main risks are that the SFD would: (a) become less efficient; and (b) lose its beneficiary orientation.
The first risk will be reduced by (i) increasing decentralization, (ii) continuing to rely on staff with performance
linked contracts; and (iii) continuing to increase transparency. The second risk will be reduced by (i) continuous
beneficiary assessments; (ii) establishing an independent client relations unit; and (iii) using frequent encounter
sessions with key partners including regional governments, NGOs and community groups.
4.6    The risks in the public works program include: (a) not targeting the poor; and (b) negative environmental
sidc-effects. The first risk will be mitigated by focusing on poor areas and requiring a labor intensive approach.
I'he second risk is mitigated by requiring environmental screening for sub-projects.
-I 2    I'he main risk in the communit, developnment program  is that the SFD could determine priorities for
communities and the program's key partners such as NGOs, rather than allow them to take the lead in identification
(f sub-programs and specific activities. This risk will be minimized by continuous application of participatory
processes as described in section "'C" below.
4i.8    The principal risk for the enterprise development program is one of sustainability at both the program
level and the individual enterprise level. Program sustainability will be assured by the structural revisions in the
.DP discussed in Sections 1 and 2. Individual enterprise sustainability will be assured through careful screening of
proposals and through appropriate provision of technical support and training to the entrepreneurs.
4.9     The main risk for the human resources development program is that training may not focus on labor
market needs. This risk is reduced by supporting only training requested by enterprises.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND PARTICIPATION
.4.10    Environment: The project has been rated category "B." The public works program and the community
development program will support community infrastructure through financing sub-projects requested by
conimunities.  These sub-projects range from  waste water treatment and rural roads to community centers.
Sub-projects in waste management may also be supported.  All sub-project proposals will be subjected to
environmental screening criteria and larger sub-projects will be subject to detailed environmental analysis.
Community participation and leadership is essential in approval of sub-projects. The project will work in close
consultation with NGOs and community groups.
4. 1I    Participatory Approach: Although the SFD has employed a participatory approach throughout Phase 1,
this approach has not been implemented systematically. This issue has been addressed through project preparation,
and systematic beneficiary assessments and focus group meetings are expected to be employed during Phase 11.
Extensive consultations with regional and local authorities now take place regularly. Sessions in which the SFD's
partners (such as NGOs and communities) can express their opinions freely will also be used on a regular basis.
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Before negotiations, the Government and SFD  provided a draft business plan for the long-term
,,itainability of SFD's enterprise development program. The plan was discussed and agreed upon during technical
discussions preceding negotiations.



Egypt: Second Social Fund Project                                                         Page 15
5.2    During negotiations the following agreements were received:
(a)    The business plan for EDP transformation will be executed during Phase TI and will not be
modified without prior approval of the World Bank Group (para 1.9);
(b)    The SFD Operational Manual will be reviewed periodically with the World Bank Group and will
remain acceptable to the World Bank Group at all times (para 2.7);
(c)    The SFD will develop a strategy for improving operations and maintenance of public works and
community development projects by December 31, 1997 (para. 2.15);
(d)    The statutes and by-laws of SFD will remain acceptable to World Bank Group throughout project
implementation (para 2.5);
(e)    The borrower will carryout, not later than November 30 each year and jointly with the World
Bank Group, an annual review of project implementation on the basis of appropriate
documentation prepared by SFD that would include the budget and work-plan for the following
year (para. 2.12);
(f)    The borrower will: (i) carry out, jointly with the World Bank Group, a mid-term review not later
than November 30, 1998; (ii) submit to the World Bank Group a report by consultants not later
than four weeks prior to the review; and (iii) implement the recommendations of the mid-term
review (para 2.12); and
(g)    The borrower will submit to the World Bank Group, the following audit reports: (i) financial
audits annually, with the report to be submitted within six months of the close of the fiscal year;
and (ii) technical and managerial audits to be submitted within six months of the close of the fiscal
year (para. 2.19).
5.3    Recommendation: Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for
a credit of SDR82.3 million (US$120.0 equivalent) to the Arab Republic of Egypt on standard IDA terms with a 35
year maturity.






ANNEX 1: PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
I.     Background. The Public Works Program component (PWP) of the Egypt Social Fund was designed to: (i)
initiate and stimulate a program of actions aimed at softening both the initial adverse effects of the reform process
and the negative impacts of the Gulf crisis on Egypt; and (ii) establish mechanisms to protect selected target
population groups (e.g., displaced public enterprise workers, households headed by females, and unskilled and
semi-skilled unemployed workers) in Egypt from the possible longer-term adverse effects of adjustment.
2.     In order to meet its mandate the PWP undertook construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of essential
municipal services in areas facing budgetary contraction, high incidence of poverty and unemployment. PWP sub-
projects were carried out by local private contractors using local labor, and included construction and rehabilitation
of water supply and sewerage systems, streets and rural roads, irrigation and drainage canals etc; and maintenance
such as cleaning canals, public buildings, solid waste collection and disposal. PWP sub-projects were able to
generate substantial temporary and permanent employment opportunities, provide essential basic infrastructure,
generate commitment and generate contributions, foster a collaborative working relationship between various
stakeholders.
3.     PWP Targeting and Allocation of Resources. The PWP targeting was based on a social and economic
study carried out in 1991. The allocation of funds was based on population size and ranking of rural areas by means
of a combined index for poverty and unemployment. Based on total funds for PWP of LE 465.6 million, the
allocation to governorates ranged from LE 51.1 million for Sohag (the highest) to LE 1. I million for the Red Sea
(the lowest). Upper Egypt, which is the region of highest priority received LE 294.9 million (about 60 percent);
Lower Egypt, received LE 158.1 million (about 37 percent), and the Border Governorates, which due to their low
population base, received LE 12.6 million (about 3 percent).'
4.     The Main Results of the PWP Program. PWP activities were successful in meeting one of it's primary
objectives: employment generation in poor rural communities. By the end 1995, about 4 1 0,000 M/m temporary
jobs and about 2, 1 00 permanent positions were created in Upper Egypt (which correspond to contracted works
amounting to an estimated LE 337.48 million). 280,000 m/m temporary jobs and about 1,500 permanent positions
were created in Lower Egypt (which correspond to contracted works amounting about LE 206.84 million), and
16,000 m/m temporary jobs and about 80 permanent positions were created in the Border Governorates (which
correspond to contracted works amounting about LE 12.6 million). The average cost of creating temporary
employment opportunities, expressed in man-months, is estimated at about LE 820 in Upper Egypt, about LE 738 in
Lower Egypt and about LE 787 in the Border govemorates. The average cost of labor in public works is estimated
at about 30 percent of the total cost, which compares well with the average salary for unskilled or semi-skilled labor
(about LE 200-250/month).
5.     The principal conclusions of the program are as follows:
(a)   (i) Projects were demand driven; (ii) targeting of poor community groups within the govemorate was
undertaken; (iii) focus on the provision of essential infrastructure rehabilitation of public buildings was
accomplished (schools, clinics, youth centers and community development centers); (iv) operations and
maintenance costs were clearly spelt out in the framework agreement; (v) PWP activities have been labor
intensive; and (vi) community contributions (10 percent in cash/kind) have been an integral aspect of sub-
project selection;
(b)    Local employment opportunities have been invited as have local small size construction industries.
The labor component ranged from 30 percent (for rural roads) to 50 percent (for canal covering) of total
construction cost depending upon the nature of the works; the work was widely distributed among local small
contractors; and the average administrative cost ranged from 2 to 4 percent of the construction cost, which is
below the generally accepted figure of 5 percent. A comparison of average unit cost of construction of SFD
Since Alexandria does not include rural areas, funds for public works activities were not allocated.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
funded versus Government funded projects of similar size and type of works, indicated that such costs are
about the same and minor difference may be due to quality control and extent of supervision;
(c)   It is difficult to measure the quantitative social, economic and environmental impact of SFD projects
in rural communities for two reasons. First, there is no base line data to determine the conditions prior to
project implementation. Second, it is costly and time consuming to survey the social, economic and
environmental conditions for each sub-project. Furthermore, the impact generated from the diverse types of
projects would produce varying and inconsistent results. Some data would depend on information obtained
from the beneficiaries and such data may not be reliable; therefore, the only objective assessment would
entail a qualitative evaluation to determine whether positive improvements would be enjoyed by
beneficiaries. To date, the SFD has conducted studies in ten governorates prior to project implementation,
and two studies following project completion (in Menoufiya and Gharbiya). The Gharbiya study, indicated
that beneficiary willingness to contribute to projects increased from 17 percent prior to project
implementation and 30 percent following project completion. The study farther indicated a change in
priorities as a result in a perceived changed in the economic benefits (beneficiary's satisfaction change to 87
percent for roads and 50 percent for water supply);
(d)    NGOs including local development associations (LDAs), are active participants in the PWP complete
sub-project cycle. The bulk of participating NGOs consist of social care (child and elderly) and social
development (women activities, literacy, and vocational training). The participation of NGOs and LDAs
ensure timely implementation of sub-projects, foster capacity building, and supervision of works; and
(e)    Theoretically, operations and maintenance are ensured within the budget of line ministries during
sub-project preparation and implementation. A similar commitment is obtained from the sponsoring
agencies and beneficiaries and spelt out in the framework agreement. In practice, the issue of sustainability
has not been tested. Nevertheless, given the current economic austerity being faced by the Government, the
availability of funds for O&M has become questionable. Involving LDAs in O&M should be encouraged
and incorporated into the framework agreements, in order to ensure community participation and stakeholder
commitment, especially given of the budgetary contractions.
PWP Procedures for Sub-Project Management
6.     The submission of the PWP sub-project proposal by a sponsoring agency marks the first stage of the sub-
project cycle. Govenorates develop a list of projects based on requests received from communities through district
offices. The SFD screens the list of projects and identifies eligible sub-projects based upon the established selection
criteria. The screening process involves an evaluation by a PWP Committee in the PWP department. Following
clearance, the proposal is presented to the SFD Executive Committee (SFD/EC) for final approval. The SFD/EC
approval is followed by a framework agreement signed by both parties, the SFD and the Sponsoring Agency. Prior
to sub-project implementation, the SFD appoints a project manager who assumes full responsibility for project
supervision (monitoring progress and making payments to Intermediary Agencies). Generally more than one
Intermediary Agency is involved at the governorate level (e.g., water supply department, roads department,
irrigation department, etc.) and agreements are established between each Intermediary Agency and the project
manager. The Intermediary Agency becomes the party responsible for contracting out the works to Executing
Agencies (local private contractors, NGOs, beneficiaries).
7.     The SFD tranches are forwarded directly to an account controlled by the project manager, who in turn
authorizes payments to Intermediary Agencies' accounts for payments to Executing Agencies (contractors).
Contractors are paid by Intermediary Agencies based on disbursement applications for works completed according
to the contractual agreements. Fund transfers are not made through the Sponsoring Agency (Govenorate).
8.     The SFD Regional Offices also monitor implementation and key sub-project implementation parameters
are recorded at SFD Headquarters by the Planning and Statistics Department. The PWP Department has developed
monitoring and evaluation indicators which recently have become operational. Substantial implementation of such



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
monitoring and assessment systems would take more time and would be better tested with the new projects.
Sponsoring and Intermediary Agencies will play a key role in self-generating such data at sub-project design and
during implementation.
Recommendations for PWP Component during Phase 11
9.     PWP would continue to give priority to low-income rural communities (80-90 percent) and some urban
slums with an emphasis on communities in Upper Egypt (60 percent of reserves). Subprojects will be designed to
integrate infrastructure with community development activities.  Targeting of beneficiaries follow the same
approach already adopted in the first phase of SFD. Needs assessment studies will be carried out to screen and
improve the design of subprojects. Sponsoring and Intermediary Agencies will play an active role in the design of
infrastructure, identification and design of monitoring parameters, and identification and evaluation of impact
assessment indicators.  Such monitoring and impact assessment data will be given to SFD for review and
processing. The findings of monitoring and impact assessment indicators will be used to evaluate project objectives
and introduce design changes.
10.    Efforts will be made to ensure more participation of LDAs, Private Voluntary Organizations (PVOs) and
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), to ensure sustainability of sub-projects.
11.    The information provided below provides an estimate of fund allocation by sector for Phase 11 (SFD funds
would cover half of the requirements listed below, in which case allocation of funds would be pro-rated
accordingly):
(a)    environmental infrastructure LE 306 million (US$90 million) or about 43 percent;
(b)    potable water systems LE 170 million (US$50 million) or about 24 percent;
(c)    rural roads LE 119 million (US$35 million) or about 17 percent;
(d)    building rehabilitation LE 51 million (US$15 million) or about 7 percent;
(e)    O&M fund of LE 34 million (US$10 million) or about 5 percent; and
(f)    project management & supervision LE 27 million (US$8 million) or about 4 percent.
12.    Sewerage and sewage treatment systems, would focus on the provision of environmentally sound on-site
disposal of waste waters and domestic refuse. PWP staff will draw on the pilot biomass sub-project under design by
the Community Development Program which would be used in rural areas. This system consists of on-site
treatment of on-farm sewage, manure and organic food waste for biogas and sludge compost production for on-farm
use as fuel and fertilizer, respectively. The use of piped sewerage systems would be reserved for the exceptional
cases where ground water is shallow that precludes the use of on-site systems.
13.    Evaluation reports would be undertaken to assess the social and economic benefits, cost-effectiveness,
quality of supervision, technical aspects of design and quality of works, and adequate provisions for operation and
maintenance for sustainability. Future reports would review the technical aspects to a greater extent in order to
ensure conformity and suitability (i.e. verify materials quality and construction quality of roads, the design of
pavement and base for the traffic load, and drainage channels to protect the road embankment from erosion.
Furthermore, they would review the geometric design such as compatibility of slopes and curves with speed design,
and whether roads signs are adequate and strategically located to warn and inform the travelers).
14.    The SFD will explore the legal framework which would enable establishing O&M units at the village level
to assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of public services provided by the SFD. Legally, only
voluntary contributions could be raised by an NGO but no taxes or tariff as cost-recovery mechanism could be



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
raised as such charges can only be made by an Authority (under the authority law) or the Ministry of Finance (under
the tax law). The SFD will explore practical alternatives such as amending the law or just simply working under the
law for NGOs. The SFD has agreed to include three essential components within the framework agreement,
namely: (i) establishing an O&M unit at the village level, such as the LDAs or an NGO, and providing training on
management of O&M and fund raising and management; (ii) developing a service contribution or charge to
generate revenues for operation and maintenance to be collected and managed by LDAs or NGOs; and (iii)
providing seed funds under the SFD funded project (about 5 percent of project cost) to establish a fund for operation
and maintenance of the works. The actual maintenance may be contracted out and paid by responsible LDAs or
NGOs with funds from the O&M fund. The SFD would supervise compliance with the agreement periodically
(such as every six months or annually) to ensure that such arrangements are sustainable. The fundamental principle
of this approach would be to make beneficiaries aware of their responsibility to ensure sustainability of
infrastructure through contributions.



ANNEX 2: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Background
1.     The Community Development Program  (CDP), an integral part of SFD was designed to finance
improvements in: (i) productive activities focusing on income and employment generation; and (ii) social
development activities to improve the delivery of essential services to poor communities. These objectives have
been achieved to a large extent, with CDP evolving to respond to community needs, in some instances by utilizing
innovative approaches. Through its integrated project activities, CDP has infused communities with an enhanced
level of social awareness and self-esteem, especially women. CDP represents an important vehicle for mobilizing
the energies and resources of community groups, local governments, NGOs, and the private sector by using a
participatory approach, thus leading to more sustainable projects. Stimulating community involvement and active
NGO participation in Egypt can be regarded as a dramatic transformation and departure from the reliance of
communities on the public sector for the provision of services. The promotion of self-help activities can be seen as
the cornerstone of CDP projects and an effective mechanism for addressing poverty alleviation.
2.     CDP's flexibility and decentralized approach allows it to exploit the diverse strengths of different actors, to
benefit from the geographical coverage that multiple organizations might be able to provide, and to finance projects
simultaneously in multiple sectors.
3.     This report draws upon field visits, interviews, data, and various documents collected in the field.
A. Outputs of CDP Operations
4.     Community Participation. The active involvement of community groups is evident in CDP projects,
where they are involved in project selection and design. Once communities have developed a sense of ownership of
a project, they have proven to be more willing to share in its financing and to ensure that it is well maintained and
properly operated. This statement has been clearly represented in a myriad of CDP projects in the governorate of
Qena, especially in the Toad project where the community was willing to mobilize resources to implement projects
as well as provide contributions aimed at assisting marginalized families attain basic services.
5.     Provision of Basic Social Services. CDP projects have been able to distribute resources to communities
previously underserved by government agencies or private-sector organizations. CDP activities focus on the
provision of health, education and training services to poor population groups. Health activities represent 21
percent of CDP's overall project portfolio. Activities eligible for funding by CDP are: (i) provision of supplies,
equipment and personnel for primary health care centers; (ii) immunization campaigns; (iii) mother and child
nutrition programs; and (iv) provision of supplies and equipment for child care centers. Funds were allocated to
rehabilitate and equip 46 clinics, conduct 569 health awareness campaigns and train 820 health personnel.
Beneficiaries interviewed in upper Egypt and Alexandria, confirmed the need for the provision of such services and
the unavailability of alternatives.
6.     Education and training comprised 42 percent of CDP activities. Activities eligible for funding include: (i)
short-term literacy programs; (ii) practical training programs; and (iii) community organization and leadership
training. Due to its success in responding to unmet demand, 35 percent of the education budget has gone towards
financing adult illiteracy projects. The Education and Training component has helped rehabilitate 187 classrooms,
establish 9,123 illiteracy classes, and train 9,241 individuals to teach illiteracy classes. In the area of vocational
training and related training, 28 training workshops have been equipped, and 8,369 individuals have benefited from
such activities. Communities expressed satisfaction with the education and training services provided through CDP
projects, and requested a continuation of such services.
7.     The pilot survey undertaken in Beni Suef and Minya indicate that access to education has improved
through the provision of the adult education programs. These courses are attended by various members of the



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
family, from all age groups. Discussions with beneficiaries highlighted their desire to enhance their income levels
and overall standard of living, a goal not deemed attainable prior to the introduction of the projects. The education
classes have afforded women the opportunity to learn basic skills such as mathematics, which in turn enabled them
to start small micro-enterprise businesses and supplement family income. Discussions with communities in upper
Egypt have indicated that vocational training has also played an important role in developing skills of young people
and afforded them employment opportunities.
8.      Employment Generation. Creating employment rapidly has been a primary objective of CDP projects.
The bulk of employment opportunities for low-income and unskilled labor have emerged as a result of labor-
intensive infrastructure projects. Infornation on the extent and cost of employment creation indicates that the 109
projects undertaken by CDP have generated 70,620 permanent jobs, and 18,152 temporary jobs both directly and
indirectly, at a cost of LE 147.5 million.' These figures reflect a close match between the expected outputs
(76,053 permanent and 35,000 temporary).
9.      The extension of credit, construction of schools, latrines or health centers stimulated demand for local
industry and absorbed a portion of the labor force in the selected communities. CDP encourages the use of labor-
intensive techniques in their projects, as well as the utilization of local resources. Communities visited in upper
Egypt emphasized the importance of employment generation activities that have materialized as a result of CDP
funded projects.
10.    Productive family activities have financed new and existing income generating schemes, involving the
establishment of small revolving funds for self-help productive activities and related training in management and
productive skills. To date, 29 percent of CDP funds have been allocated to the provision of credit programs given
to 27,657 direct beneficiaries- who would normally not have had access to funds or appropriate training required for
managing a business. Preliminary data from a pilot survey conducted in Beni Suef and Minya indicate that these
loans resulted in job creation and provided families with enhanced supplemental incomes.
11.    Credits have been used for working capital and equipment purchases, and range from LE 500 to LE 5,000.
With the average loan size averaging LE 1,000. At the inception of the project, interest on credits for productive
activities were 10 percent. Following discussions between the World Bank and SFD staff, a consensus was reached
on lowering the interest rate to 7 percent for the beneficiary. Repayment schedules vary depending on the size and
use of the credit, with two years being the typical repayment period. Collateral requirements require personal or
groups guarantees. Beneficiaries surveyed in the pilot projects in Beni Suef and Minya have expressed satisfaction
with the level of assistance established through this mechanism. Beneficiaries in Alexandria and upper Egypt and
have indicated a willingness to apply for future loans.
12.    Sharing of Information and Experiences. CDP projects have created avenues for cooperation between
various stakeholders.
(a)     Line Ministries. Projects proposed by line ministries are designed and prepared in conjunction with CDP
staff. This allows for a collaborative process and sharing of experiences. Furthermore, staff from the
public sector can learn and internalize CDP's partnership role with NGOs and local community groups,
thus leading to the adoption of a more participatory approach in project design and implementation. In
other instances, staff hired to work on CDP projects have been recruited to work in Ministries upon
completion of their assignments. It is envisaged that data collected by CDP can be utilized by the public
sector to allow for improved coordination, design and implementation of future projects.
(b)    NGOs. In order to respond to increasing demands, CDP has encouraged the formation of voluntary
clusterings. This approach aims at forging partnerships among large and small NGOs while expanding
These figures are provided by the CDP office in Cairo.
Loan applicants in many cases are members of large households. In many instances, the majority of family
members participate in productive activities, and thus the project has a positive multiplier effect.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
project reach and facilitating greater awareness of diverse views of stakeholders. The Red Crescent, Coptic
Evangelical Organization for Social Services, and CARITAS are some of the larger NGOs successfully
participating in this approach.
(c)    Communities. Meetings and visits among various community members aimed at sharing experiences and
establishing temporary twinning arrangements have resulted following the successful completion of CDP
activities in selected areas. This was evident in upper Egypt.
13.    Packaging of Projects. The design and implementation of standardized projects have facilitated quick and
efficient project implementation and has proven to be extremely effective in reaching the maximum number of
beneficiaries. This is particularly relevant in the adult literacy eradication projects which have been received
enthusiastically by 80 percent of the 26 govemorates. In fact, upon completion of Phase I of the program, requests
for additional programs have flooded the CDP office. These programs are well designed, and respond to community
needs in a manner that currently is not provided by the public sector. This is an instance where the Ministry of
Education can attempt to draw lessons in designing small and technically simple projects. Other packages to be
implemented by CDP include, upgrading PHC through the use of extension officers, development of health
emergency services, dental hygiene, and family programs.
14.    Stemming Rural-Urban Migration. The introduction of integrated projects within a community has a
positive impact in stemming rural-urban migration. Young people interviewed during the mission, expressed a
desire to remain in their respective communities given the availability of social services and employment
opportunities.
15.    Positive Externalities through Linkages of Projects (Integrated Projects). Combining a number of
components within a CDP project such adult illiteracy eradication projects with micro-enterprise activities has
resulted in increasing the level of awareness and understanding of communities, and afforded beneficiaries,
especially women, the opportunity to utilize basic reading and writing skills in managing their own business. An
improvement in the status of women also reveals their desire to have fewer children.
16.    NGOs. NGOs play a significant role in the operations of CDP activities (75 percent of the projects are
implemented by NGOs), the active participation of both national and international NGOs, as well as religious
organizations, in programs and projects sponsored and financed by the Govemment and external assistance agencies
is unprecedented. The CDP has developed a positive working relationship with several NGOs by overcoming their
initial lack of trust and skepticism, which was based in part on many NGOs' ideological opposition to the
Government's economic adjustment program. This was achieved by establishing transparent and efficient operating
methods, engaging in active, and continuous dialogue with the NGOs.
17.    Given the NGOs close association with community groups, involving them in the planning, preparation,
implementation and operation of projects has been essential to the success in implementation of CDP projects.
NGOs have also participated actively in project supervision, particularly in areas where the latter have been
involved for extensive periods.
18.    Due to the limited capacity of smaller NGOs, the CDP program has provided technical assistance. In
selected governorates in the Saiid, training NGOs in proposal preparation ranges from 3-5 months. The use of
"clustering NGOs" has been recently applied in order to meet the increasing demand being generated by
communities This method entails involving a primary NGO, with a cluster of satellite or smaller NGOs. The
philosophy behind this approach reflects CDPs emphasis on capacity building. Training is provided to the primary
NGO, as well as the smaller NGOs. Following completion of training, the primary NGO assumes responsibility of
monitoring and supervising the activities of the satellite NGOs. In this manner, accountability is maintained within
the context of NGOs, and dispersed projects are addressed through the outreach of satellite NGOs.
19.    Local Government Involvement.  CDP projects have laid the groundwork for decentralizing the
responsibility for small-scale infrastructure investment to local governments. This has been achieved by involving
local governments in prioritizing, preparing and supervising the execution of projects with inputs from their



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
respective communities. As sponsors of projects, they have participated in contract management and assumed
responsibility for maintenance and operating costs of CDP projects. Some of the following factors have contributed
to the success in financing a relatively large program implemented primarily by the local government. First, most
projects financed have been small and technically simple. They were relatively easy to prepare and could be rapidly
appraised, contracted and executed. Second, CDP provided blueprints to the sponsoring local governments to
facilitate construction and ensure that projects met appropriate quality standards.  This is evident in health
awareness campaigns and adult illiteracy eradication projects. Third, CDP staff supervised project execution jointly
with representatives of the sponsoring local governments. Fourth, CDP through it's regional offices kept its lines of
communication with local government representatives open and provided them with information on the status of
CDP financed projects on a regular basis. Finally, while willing to provide technical assistance and advice,
especially to the poorest governorates, CDP has discouraged elaborate development planning exercises.
20.    By involving community groups in project selection and implementation, CDP has built local capacity for
municipal self-help efforts. Neighborhood funds groups for local improvement have been created to finance small
projects, such as drainage, health awareness campaigns, and the provision of some social services. Through its
innovative and flexible mechanisms, CDP stimulated the formation of partnerships between local authorities and
beneficiaries in the selection, implementation, and maintenance of these projects. This could lay the groundwork for
generating cost sharing and partial or full recovery on the part of the beneficiaries.
21.    The CDP could create the basis for local governments to assume more difficult functions, such as
stimulating local economic development and creating a broader local tax base. Given the high concentration of
poor communities in urban areas, the importance of strengthening local governments' capacities and increasing the
involvement of community groups in efforts to improve the infrastructure and delivery of social services and
encourage self-help efforts is critical.
22.    Sustainability and Cost Recovery. Soliciting agencies are requested to incorporate mechanisms to be
used for cost recovery, operations and maintenance in project proposals. The CDP evaluates the institutional
capacity of the soliciting agency and feasibility of the proposed mechanism to ensure proper operation and
maintenance. Operations and maintenance costs are allocated within each line ministries budget, therefore, projects
implemented by the public sector would be ensured a budget for such activities.  Projects involving direct
community implementation institute mechanisms to recover sufficient funds through modest fees and contribution
in kind to cover costs of operations and maintenance. CDP projects also include technical assistance for operations
and maintenance. This approach is successfully being implemented in certain villages in upper Egypt. Certain
projects such as adult illiteracy eradication do not require financial assistance beyond the life of the project. In most
other cases, it is imperative for CDP to monitor project sustainability beyond project implementation stage.
23.    Women's Participation. CDP activities have targeted and responded to needs which reflect the integral
role of women in poverty alleviation efforts in Egypt. As productive agents, women's participation in income
generating activities represent a crucial part of the survival strategy of poor households. Women have increasingly
shifted away from traditional agricultural into commercial activities, either in the selling of agricultural products or
in trading of urban goods and services. The status of women and their empowerment in their communities has been
dramatically enhanced through the use of a participatory approach and the provision of social and productive
services. CDP activities involve women representatives on the board of local committees. To raise the productivity
of women's activities, CDP has expanded access to basic education and training, credit and improved infrastructure
such as markets and roads. To date 50 percent of CDP projects have financed projects of these types to low-income
women.
24.    Apart from their increasingly important role in the economic well-being of poor families, women have
traditionally played the central role in the development of Egypt's human resource base. CDP's investments in
health and nutrition have addressed the precarious health conditions of Egyptian women and children, aimed at
complementing the Ministry of Health's efforts in reducing maternal and infant mortality. In addition, the provision
of safe drinking water and sanitation facilities has also improved the health status of women.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
25.    Private Sector Involvement. Private contractors have carried out a large number of projects financed by
CDP. The significant involvement of NGOs in CDP operations is one way of involving the private sector. Staff
involved in CDP operations have been recruited from the private sector, a key element in the success of CDP
activities. In addition, private sector consultants have also been recruited to supervise project execution, secure
pertinent information in a cost effective manner, and audit CDP/SFD operations.
26.    Expeditious Project Processing and Flexibility. Given the flexibility inherent in SFD activities, project
processing and implementation time span have been very reasonable, especially in comparison to the delivery of
services through the public sector. The CDP interventions have helped promote incremental decentralization by
strengthening the role of regional representatives as project sponsors and has been instrumental in forging
partnerships with various members of society who traditionally have undertaken activities in isolation.
27.    Administrative Efficiency and Operating Costs of the CDP. Overall administrative costs of SFD
activities are 10 percent, comparable to most social investment funds which average 8 to 13 percent of their annual
commitments, upon achieving full output. CDP consumes I percent of administrative costs. At its peak, CDP has
approved 109 projects since its inception, worth about LE 226 million (LE 147.5 million have been disbursed).
This scale of operation has been achieved using a staff of 12 (CDP Cairo office). The speed, flexibility and
effectiveness with which CDP promoted and approved a large number of projects has helped it in rapidly
establishing its credibility.
B.     Next Steps - Challenges Facing CDP
28.    CDP should continue implementing its mandate and focusing on community and NGO participation with a
continued emphasis on capacity building and targeting of women, the poor, and unemployed. Increased donor
coordination during a second phase could serve to facilitate project implementation. The following points should be
addressed during Phase II of the Social Fund for Development Project in order to enhance its operations.
29.    Project Packaging. The adoption of project packaging and/or blueprint approach should be encouraged in
relevant projects (i.e. education and health), as should the integrated project approach. Information on successful
packaging approaches should be disseminated to the relevant ministries.
30.    Sharing of Experiences. Success stories should be documented and circulated among regional, satellite
offices, government agencies, NGOs and community groups in order to allow for replication of these activities
when relevant. This would allow for the development and transfer of effective methods for planning and project
implementation.
31.    Project Sustainability and Operations. The issue of project sustainability should be closely monitored
following the completion of project implementation. Mechanisms should be developed to respond to projects that
are meeting sustainability challenges. The CDP will start, initially on an experimental basis, a system of assuring
long-term sustainability of projects through setting up users groups to raise contributions towards long-term
operations. The SFD would start by providing matching grants to these users groups on a downward sliding basis,
eventually phasing the grants out. The success of this approach, which seems to be only one feasible, is not assured
because the CDP works in the poorest areas and the beneficiaries have little cash to offer - though they may be able
to make contributions in labor.
32.    Market Orientation for CDP Microenterprise Programs:  There have been cases where CDP
microenterprise programs have supported sub-projects which make little business sense, e.g. loans for handicrafts
for which the market is already saturated or training in skills for which there is little demand. This has led to default
in some microenterprise loan repayments and the situation needs to be corrected. It is recommended that during
Phase II, attention be given to marketability as is already done in the case of the EDP. This is already happening in
the case of the more experienced NGOs and should be generalized broadly.
33.    Supervision and Monitoring. The CDP has paid limited attention to supervision and monitoring. This
shortcoming can be attributed to the emphasis being placed on quick disbursements and the allocation of staff for



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
this purpose. This issue is currently being addressed, and monitoring indicators are being included in the appraisal
and evaluation forms. With the existence of 10 regional and 6 satellite offices monitoring and supervision will
become a primary focus during Phase 11 of the SFD. Other aspects that require strengthening are impact evaluation
and beneficiary assessments. In addition, market studies as well as an evaluation of the fund's operations should be
undertaken to identify strengths and weaknesses of CDP and the conditions that facilitate or hinder performance.
34.    Targeting. Funding of community development activities has been targeted based on the original poverty
map developed by SFD in 1992. Efforts are underway for SFD to update its poverty map and targeting mechanism
in order to reflect the evolving nature of SFD, and the current patterns of poverty in Egypt. The poverty map should
be made available during the early stages of Phase 11.
35.    Decentralization. The SFD is reviewing its decentralization efforts and a delineation of responsibilities
between the main office and the field offices is currently being finalized. A more decentralized approach in the area
of project approval will allow for further flexibility in CDP operations given the increasing demand being generated
from communities.
36.    Resistance from Ministries to Work with NGOs. This has lead to temporary delays. In response,
innovative approaches are being developed to create modalities for collaboration between the public sector and
NGOs. These approaches should be documented and success cases should be circulated to stakeholders.
38.    Lack of Capacity in NGOs. Innovative training mechanisms are being developed to provide quicker
capacity building (i.e., creating apprentice programs, instituting a junior manager within an NGO with requisite
skills for capacity building), as are information-sharing and networking activities between larger and smaller NGOs.
These efforts should be evaluated in light of their sustainability and effectiveness.
39.    Limited Participation in Urban Areas. An emphasis on promoting a participatory approach in urban
areas needs to be encouraged. A review of success cases using participatory approaches in rural areas could provide
relevant examples.
40.    Coordinating Projects between different Departments in SFD. Coordinated efforts to synchronize
activities between various departments undertaking multi-sectoral projects needs to be streamlined.
41.    Limit Off-Budget Financing to Public Sector Agencies. CDP activities should provide temporary relief
to public agencies by financing priority projects while public agencies undergo structural reform. Off-budget
financing for ministries or public agencies should be gradually reduced, by placing a cap on the amount of funds
available to public agencies. This approach should be implemented in order to reduce public reliance on the social
fund for off-budget financing.
42.    Operating Manual. A revision of the Operating Manual should be undertaken to reflect lessons learned
and allow for future streamlining of activities between the CDP main office, regional and satellite offices.
43.    Conflicting Donor Interests.  Lack of synergy between donor objectives has resulted in sending
conflicting signals. There is a need for donors to streamline their objectives and their disbursement schedules in
order to allow for smoother operations .



ANNEX 3: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROGRPM
Introduction
I.     The following Annex provides an overview of issues pertaining to the sustainability of the Enterprise
Development Program (EDP) of SFD. First, the current status and performance of the EDP is described followed
by a discussion of how sustainability and cost coverage could be achieved over time. This discussion includes an
overview of the basic premises underlying sustainability which were adopted by SFD during appraisal and which
need also be adopted by the Government of Egypt and donors. Finally, the steps to taken towards long term
sustainability of EDP are discussed. These include the establishment of a task force to work on a feasibility study
and business plan for EDP sustainability to be presented at the Donor Meeting in April 1996, and a redesign of
current features of the program that worked in the past but that will inhibit sustainability in the future.
Enterprise Development Program: Current Status
2.      The Enterprise Development Program is one of the core programs of the Social Fund for Development.
The objective of EDP is to create jobs for unemployed people and other disadvantaged groups through the
development and support of new and existing businesses. The EDP provides entrepreneurs with credit (mainly
through banks) and business services such as training, business counseling, support with business plan preparation
and marketing support. In addition, it is engaged in the development of new innovative sectoral programs such as
silk-production and fish-farms. Under EDP 120,000 permanent and 40,000 temporary jobs were created.
3.      Up to December 1995, the EDP credit department has lent over LE 500 million to 5 public sector banks
that on-lend to new and existing businesses. All loans were for low-income beneficiaries. Sub-loan repaymenit is
satisfactory and the banks started repaying the SFD (see table I for an overview of the performance of EDP's main
financial intermediaries). The banks recently signed on for another LE 250 million. In effect, the EDP credit
department has acted as a wholesale bank (APEX) that delivers credit to small businesses through retail banks.
4.      The success of EDP's credit program could not have been possible without the department for business
services that provided thousands of new and existing businesses with support. These services are delivered eith.r
directly by EDP or through selected NGOs receiving grants to deliver service packages. The staff of the EDP works
intensively with these NGOs to help them develop their institutional capacity to work with small businesses.
Entrepreneurs who use EDP services increase their chances of obtaining a bank loan and learn to better manage
their businesses. In effect, the EDP business services department has acted as a wholesale organization that delivers
valuable services to entrepreneurs through retail NGOs/PVOs.
The Opportunity
5.      The EDP is in an unique position to become sustainable and to achieve operational and possibly financial
costs coverage over the next few years by gradually charging fees for its services. The dynamics of this process are
described in the graph below. Currently the banks and the entrepreneurs do not pay any fee though they receive a
valuable service. Banks receive "bankable business plans" and the banks' clients are actively supported by EDP
(monitoring, problem solving) also after they receive a bank loan. This service delivery is implicit and the value is
not recognized. Like any other APEX type operation, the EDP could charge banks a percentage fee on costs of
loan funds to cover its costs of delivering these implicit services. On an outstanding portfolio of LE 750 million, a I
to 2 percent fee would generate LE 7.5 to 15 million on an annual basis. Also, the EDP could charge the
entrepreneurs a low flat fee for training and other assistance and a success fee if the entrepreneur receives a loan.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
THE PATH TOWARDS SUSTAINABIIrrY
Grants from Donors
Performance Contracts
r EDP Credit                                       EDP Non-Financial Services
Operational Costs                                    Opera toal0 costs
,,,                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grants:
c;   '" I  @           AZ I                                        .D    |  !  Performance Contracts
a0Promotion
o Inst. BLD
osBeneficiary services
o Monitoring
BANK                     BANK                  Fee               NGOs / PVOs
|  Operational Costs _  0   L _  Operatinal Costs                   Operational Costs
c                   ~~~~~~~~~0
L-3 -j 1       -       LB                             _L                    B
LB1 BX          I B            B I0!C  C B1C 
6       The unique opportunity exists to transform  EDP into a specialized small business support and finance
organization comprised of two complementary functions: the first focusing on project identification and definition,
offering technical support and marketing services; and the second specialized in offering financially engineered
credit packages. This organization would act like a wholesale agency providing loans for on-lending to banks and
technical service packages through NGOs/PVOs. The organization could have its own Steering Committee under a
common Board of Directors. It would be managed as a private sector organization but any surpluses would be re-
invested in the small business development programs.  During Phase 11, the organization would operate
independently but within the SFD structure. This would entail the operation of a separate cost and revenue
accounting system for EDP. The current MIS system appears capable to accommodate this change.
7.      Capitalization for this institution could come from the following sources of funds: (i) EU counterpart funds
currently allocated to SFD; (ii) untied donor funds currently allocated to SFD; (iii) re-flows i.e., the banks'
repayments of interest and principal; and (iv) new donor funds under Phase 11. Over time, this small business
support and finance organization could mobilize resources on local, regional, and international capital markets.
8.      The organization would keep its development mandate and could use surpluses from one project to finance
another core project to achieve certain development objectives. It could also negotiate donor funds -- based on
performance contracts -- to continue delivering services that are needed from a development perspective but cannot
generate (sufficient) surpluses to cover their costs.
9.      The corporate and organizational structure would be linked to the other programs of SFD; the Community
Development Program, the Public Works Program, and the Human Resource Development Program. Common
operational functions (i.e., office administration, personnel, accounting, MIS, treasury, legal and audit, and GM-
secretariat services) could be provided as contracted services by sections or secretariats within the EDP-
Organization for CDP and other units, which handle project-type business rather than uniform daily transactions.
Thus, the cost and quality advantages of specialized skills within the EDP-unit could be shared economically by the
other program units. As all units would probably operate under a joint Board of Directors and under partly
identically staffed Steering Committees, the normal policy and strategic and controlling instruments could ensure
the close cooperation of the management of all the Program units.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
10.     The transformation of EDP towards sustainability could be achieved by an evolutionary restructuring
process of the current legal and organizational structure. Any restructuring and streamlining process would be
based on a thorough feasibility study demonstrating the viable options to prepare for the following decision steps of
SFD management, for proposals to the Government of Egypt, and for negotiations with the Donors. In the following
section, some of the basic premises of sustainability that would be incorporated in the feasibility study are
discussed.
The Basic Premises of Sustainability
11.    In order to achieve sustainability of the EDP and also enhance the prospects of a sustainable SFD
operation, the following basic premises were adopted by the SFD:
*    The EDP will use its current achievements (outstanding portfolio and beneficiaries reached) as an important
basis to develop sustainability now and in the future, which will go beyond the lifetime of Phase 11.
*    Sustainability cannot be achieved overnight; a medium term time frame of two to four years is needed to
enable the organization to cover its costs.
*    To achieve its development objectives, continued donor funding is required in the following areas: (i) funding
(on a decreasing basis) for the EDP overhead during the process of transition; this funding could be based on
EDP meeting certain performance standards that are raised over time; (ii) funding to enable the organization to
fulfill its socio-economic development mandate through transparent subsidies based on performance contracts;
and (iii) funding (on a decreasing matching grant basis) to enhance the viability, efficiency and outreach of
EDP's intermediaries (banks and NGOs) because the EDP's viability depends upon that of its intermediaries.
*   The organization will have a capital basis that is sufficient to serve its projected tasks now and in the future; an
initial capitalization of no less than LE 250 million is required. Preliminary calculations indicate that the
organization could leverage this capital and could possibly channel loans to small businesses up to LE 1.0
billion in two to three years.
*    The EDP needs to ensure (legally) that it has sufficient funds for initial capitalization to make sustainability
and independence feasible and realistic within the agreed time frame. The EDP would legally own these funds
irrespective of any developments which may influence the nature of SFD and/or its constituent core programs.
-   Since the viability of EDP is dependent on that of its intermediaries (banks and NGOs), the selection of (and
investment in) intermediaries would be based on their meeting performance standards of outreach,
creditworthiness, and financial soundness.
*    The EDP will over time charge fees for its services from banks, NGOs, and beneficiaries. Since EDP clients
will only pay for these services as long as they value them, this will constitute the basic test of market demand
and will ensure that EDP will deliver those services that are needed and tailored to demand.
*   The banks will only continue "purchasing" the EDP services if small business lending is financially attractive
for them. In this context, they should be free to negotiate the price of on-lending taking into account risk,
costs of small business lending, and a reasonable margin, without passing on costs of inefficiency to the final
borrower.
*   The EDP will need more flexibility in targeting and developing terms and conditions for its services (credit
and technical) to intermediaries and to new and existing businesses.
*    The EDP financial operations should preserve the real money value of its funds and it should hence charge at
least real positive interest rates.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
*   United donor support for and incentives to EDP and SFD are needed to help it become sustainable.
Steps towards Sustainability
12.    The following next steps are recommended: (i) establish a task force to develop a strategy and business
plan on how to reach sustainability and how to manage the restructuring process; (ii) legally ensure that EDP can
maintain already allocated donor funds; (iii) redesign certain current features of EDP that worked in the past to
"open up" the small business lending market but that may inhibit future sustainability; and (iv) set up an
independent cost and revenue accounting system for EDP within SFD's MIS.
I.     Task Force
13.    The SFD has established a task force, comprising of key decision makers in the Fund and external
consultants, to develop a strategy and business plan to achieve EDP sustainability within the context of a SFD
operation. This document will constitute the basis for Phase II and donor negotiations. A first draft is expected to be
ready by mid-February 1996 and the final version by the end of March 1996. Representatives of the EU and IDA
are advising this task force. See Attachment I for draft terms of reference for the task force.
14.    This feasibility study will include projections on the achievable targets within the main Programs or
activities of SFD:
(a)    Development of EDP loan business (credit volume targets for sectors and areas, budgets for
technical assistance and institution building, overhead costs, real value capital maintenance requirements
and risk analysis, volume of funds to be mobilized from donors, Governments, savings institutions, and
domestic or foreign banks, surplus to be generated to contribute to non-income generating social activities
of SFD, etc.)
(b)    Realistic funding volume generated or contracted with donors (grants, etc.) for subsidized social
functions and activities such as CDP, etc.
(c)    According to the current mission and functions and the achieved business volume in the EDP
field, the feasibility study should evaluate realistic options for a corporate and organizational structure that
incorporates future legal and bank technology requirements.
II.    Legally ensure that EDP can maintain already allocated donor funds.
15.    As mentioned earlier, EDP funding for capitalization could come from counterpart EU funds, untied donor
funds, and fund re-flows. Currently, over LE 750 million is on-lent to banks that are just starting to repay the fund.
Formally, the SFD has a repayment obligation for these funds to the Government of Egypt which could (partially)
free SFD from its repayment obligation and permit it to use the funds for capitalization of an EDP finance
organization.
III.    Redesign current features of the EDP
16.    At the time of design and implementation of EDP, the main (donor and government) emphasis was on
disbursement in order to create jobs without regard to sustainability. Hence, EDP is not at fault for some
weaknesses that were a result of the initial design; rather the staff of the EDP should be commended for its
achievements within such a short time frame and within a complex set of (often) conflicting (donor) demands. In
the future, the following characteristics of the EDP as it is currently operating may inhibit sustainability and hence
should be addressed:



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
17.    Selection of Intermediaries. Currently, public sector banks are the main intermediaries for on-lending.
Their performance varies widely and they did not intrinsically change the way they do business. This is especially
apparent in the fact that they still require high collateral and that repayments schedules do not incorporate cash flow
dynamics. Banks will be the main income generator for the independent and sustainable EDP program, and they
will only continue "buying the EDP services and funds" if small business lending represents an attractive
opportunity for them. In this context, banks should be free to determine the price of on-lending without getting a
license to pass on costs of inefficiency to the final borrower (see below). Banks may also require institutional
support to help them become better and more efficient small business lenders.
18.    For Phase 11, the following changes are recommended: (i) widening the range of intermediaries to include
private banks, leasing companies and Islamic banks; (ii) selection of banks based on performance standards (or in
case of new intermediaries based on proven top management commitment to this field and a credible business plan
to serve this target group); (iii) provision of institutional support (on a decreasing matching grant basis) to enable
banks to become more efficient, reach volume and reduce risks.
19.    More flexibility in Targeting. It is strongly recommended that EDP reviews its targeting mechanisms.
Entrepreneurs that start or manage new and existing businesses do not necessarily have to be very poor or come
from certain disadvantaged groups such as graduates or unemployed public sector employees. The main objective
is that new businesses are created or that existing small businesses grow. Also, international experience indicates
that the unemployed do not necessarily make good entrepreneurs. More flexible target requirements will lead to
more potential entrepreneurs whose businesses will create jobs possibly employing number of disadvantaged
groups.
20.    More flexible Sub-loan design. Sub-loan terms and conditions should focus on enhancing flexibility to
better meet the entrepreneurs' needs and to ensure viability of intermediaries. Attention should be given to: (i) the
definition of micro and small businesses, taking into account sectoral differences; (ii) broadening the permitted
purposes (uses) of the sub-loans; (iii) increasing the loan ceiling (for instance up to 10 percent of the banks' SFD
portfolio) to accommodate growth of existing EDP clients and to allow for increased demand for larger loans of new
clients; loan ceilings could be changed yearly according to inflation; (iv) varying grace periods and maturities
according to the project cash flow and purpose of the loan; (v) pricing of the sub-loans according to project risks
and costs of making the sub-loan; (vi) providing incentives to banks to accept more flexible collateral; and (vii)
recognizing subsidies whenever to ensure they are transparent to banks, entrepreneurs, and donors.
IV. Set up an independent cost and revenue accounting system for EDP
21.    The current SFD MIS appears to be capable to account for EDP cost and revenues separately within the
SFD structure. Establishing an independent system will enable EDP to better understand its cost and revenue
dynamics. It will be linked to an annual (or bi-annual) budgeting process that will be used as a management tool for
strategic and operational decision making.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Attachment 1: Terms of Reference Task Force
Develop a model to determine financial dynamics and minimum capitalization needed as well as non-financial
interventions and entrepreneurial needs and their costs. The following steps are considered essential to
determine the model:
*   Current costs and revenue flows. Analyze the current direct and indirect (overhead) costs of EDP. Make a
distinction between costs incurred for investment in intermediaries, development of services packages and
service delivery (credit and non-financial services). Identify those services that could generate revenues,
making a distinction between services that could (i) fully recover their costs of delivery, (ii) partially recover
their costs of delivery and services, and (iii) services that should be considered as non-recoverable investment
in development for which the costs incurred should be considered overhead.
*   Assessment of future development needs. Analyze the future social economic development objectives that
EDP wishes to achieve within the next five years; identify specific programs to be undertaken (or continued)
and the expected costs of doing so.
*   Assessment of banks' demand for sources of on-lending. This analysis should include the demand from
current and potential new intermediaries. It should also include a cash flow analysis of funds re-flowing that
can be re-lent and new funds needed for on-lending. The absorption capacity of the intermediaries should also
be taken into account. Determine the costs of EDP's delivery of these financial services and fees that can be
charged for the delivery.
*   Assessment of entrepreneurs demand for non-financial services. Analyze the entrepreneurs' demand for
non-financial services, assess costs of the delivery of these services and determine a possible fee structure.
*   Assessment of institutional development needs of NGOs and banks. Assess the needs for institutional
development of EDP's intermediaries to enable them to increase efficiency and outreach. Assess cost of these
needs.
Development of the model based on scenarios. Use the information obtained above as input for a financial model
to determine optimal capitalization needed and financial dynamics for a period of five years. The model should
incorporate varying assumptions on: (i) fees that can be charged over time; (ii) risks of non-repayment by financial
intermediaries of funds for on-lending; (iii) demand for financial and non-financial services; and (iv) inflation. The
model should also show increased cost coverage and sustainability over time and should identify the financing gaps
for each year. The financing gap should make a distinction in financing needed for overhead coverage, investment
in intermediaries, investment in service development and delivery of services that cannot be fully recovered.
Assess the needs for continued donor funding for next five years. Based on the outcomes of the financial model
under different scenarios, make an assessment of donor funding needed for the next five years identifying in detail
for what categories donor funding is needed (overhead, investment in intermediaries, services that cannot fully
recover their costs, certain programs to achieve social and economic development objectives). For each category
determine monitoring indicators that could be used as a basis for performance contracts with donors.
Organizational and legal structures. Determine the optimal organizational and legal structures of EDP. This
would include: (i) the optimal legal form required for the small business development and finance institution; (ii)
description of management instruments such as Board of Directors, Steering Committees, executive management,
their respective tasks and responsibilities; (iii) staffing requirements; (iv) reward and incentive systems; (v)
operational procedures; and (vi) budgeting process (as control tool).
The transition process. Prepare a phased-in transition plan. For each phase, describe in detail objectives to be
achieved, how these will be achieved and how progress will be measured and monitored.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
Table 1.: Performance of EDP's main financial Intermediaries
PBDAC
- total onlending (rounded)                        LE 50 million
- total number of sub-borrowers (rounded)          5,000
- female borrowers (rounded)                        1,100 (22,0 percent)
- average loan size                                LE 10,000
- liquidated debt (on first batch of LE 32 million)  20.7 percent
- portfolio at Risk (at least one missed payment)   2.5 percent
NBE (National Bank of Egypt)
- total onlending (rounded)                       LE 205 million
- total number of sub-borrowers (rounded)         12,400
- female borrowers (rounded)                       3,200 (25,8 percent)
- average loan size                               LE 16,000
- liquidated debt (on first batch of 53 million)   8.6 percent
- portfolio at Risk (at least one missed payment)  8.0 percent
Bank of Alexandria
- total onlending (rounded)                       LE 85 million
- total number of sub-borrowers                    3,800
- female borrowers (rounded)                        680 (17.8 percent)
- average loan size                               LE 12,500
- liquidated debt (on first batch of 40 million)   3.5 percent
- portfolio at Risk (at least one missed payment)  1.5 percent
Banque du Caire
- total onlending (rounded)                       LE 82 million
- total number of sub-borrowers (rounded)          3,700
- female borrowers (rounded)                        830 (22.4 percent)
- average loan size                               LE 22,100
- liquidated debt (on first batch of 30 million    5.4 percent
- portfolio at Risk (at least one missed payment))  14.5 percent
Misr Bank
- total onlending (rounded)                        LE 102 million
- total number of sub-borrowers (rounded)          3,450
- female borrowers (rounded)                         680 (19.7 percent)
- average loan size                                LE 30,000
- liquidated debt (on first batch of 50 million)    3.4 percent
- portfolio at Risk (at least one missed payment)  11.0 percent
Notes:
1. Data exclude lending programs for cattle raising



ANNEX 4: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Background and Phase I - Labor Mobility Program
Background
I.     In recent years, the growth rate of employment in Egypt has not kept pace with labor force growth leading
to increased unemployment. A recent survey indicates that the unemployment rate was about 20.5 percent in 1993,
and more than 80 percent of those unemployed were graduates from university and technical secondary schools,
whose levels of skills were not relevant to the market needs. This skill mismatch was largely due to the poor quality
of both training and education.
2.     Egypt has a large number of public sector enterprises, and many of which continue to make losses, partially
due to over-staffing. Research shows that the level of redundant workers in public sector enterprises ranges from 30
to 40 percent. Based on the results, it has been projected that these redundant workers would be laid off as many
more public sector enterprises are expected to be privatized in coming years.
3.     In order to absorb these redundant workers and to provide job opportunities to unemployed graduates, the
expansion of the private sector is indispensable. Domestic enterprises will soon face strong competitive pressures
from the trade liberalization resulting from Egypt's accession to the World Trade Organization and its Free Trade
Treaty with the European Union.
Phase I - Labor Mobility Program
4.     The main objective of Phase I of Labor Mobility Program (LMP) was to focus on redeployment of workers
in public sector enterprises through technical assistance. The technical assistance included: (i) upgrading workers'
skills through retraining; and (ii) preparing workers for alternative jobs. In addition, the program also aimed to
provide retraining and placement of unemployed graduates.
5.     In order to facilitate labor mobility of public enterprises, LMP worked with three public sector enterprises,
and SFD provided assistance to 3,000 workers of these companies. For example, in Alexandria Shipyard, LMP
helped in retraining redundant workers. Those workers were retrained as certified welders, and their productivity
increased as much as 300 percent. The cost for retraining was LE 3,500 per worker.
6.     Currently, SFD has been authorized to work on the labor mobility programs of additional seven public
sector enterprises (total of 10 enterprises) from January 1996. The SFD will assist public sector enterprises through
programs such as retraining, early retirement, spin-offs of its business, and self-employment. The total number of
workers receiving SFD assistance by the end of 1996 is about to be 10,000 at an estimated cost of LE 110 million.
7.     To match workers to employment opportunities, LMP implemented 15 demand-led training projects
through private sector/union owned training facilities. Primarily, the training institutions identified jobs and then
requested SFD help to train workers for these jobs thus, all graduates are employed. In these activities, SFD
finances the fees for trainees and the cost of up-grading the training modules and equipment in both public and
private training centers.  These projects helped place about 2,000 unemployed graduates in permanent job
opportunities at an average cost of LE 1,500 per trainee.
B. Phase 11 - Labor Mobility Program
Phase 11 Objectives
8.     During Phase 11, LMP would be revamped into a broader Human Resources Development Program which
would assist: (a) labor mobility in public enterprise being restructured or privatized; (b) redeployment of workers in



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
private enterprises which would facing new competitive pressures due to the trade liberalization; and (c) help small
and medium size (under 50 employees) private sector enterprises to improve their workers' skills. To achieve these
objectives, the program would expand the mandate of LMP to support labor mobility of private sector enterprises.
Phase 11 - Description
9.     In order to achieve the above objectives, Phase 11 of the program will have two components:
(a" Labor Mobility Component
10.    This component will assist labor mobility activities in public sector enterprises and in private enterprises
facing competitive pressures due to trade liberalization. Labor mobility would include an early retirement program
(not IDA funded), financial assistance to start new businesses, and retraining of redundant workers. A major
activity of this component would be retraining of redundant workers in public sector enterprises, so that it can help
these workers to find new jobs in private sectors. Private enterprises wishing to benefit from this program would
need to demonstrate that their competitive situation was altered by trade liberalization. This support to private sector
enterprises would start on a pilot basis and expand based on the results.
(b) Small and Medium Enterprise Skills Development Component:
11.    This component will provide financial assistance to train workers in small and medium size enterprises on
a matching subsidy basis. The main areas of training would be marketing, maintenance, quality control, and
technical skills, which are essential to expand their businesses. The matching subsidies would be transparent and
the proportion of subsidy would vary with the mobility of that particular skill. This component will not finance
stipends of trainees and salaries of trainers. In order to prioritize the area of training, the component would support
the periodical informal labor market survey (twice a year to be undertaken under contract by a private research
institutes) to assess the recent skill requirements in the regional market.
12.    The entrepreneurship skills training offered by this component are different from similar training provided
by other programs of SFD activities; i.e., Enterprise Development Program and Community Development Program.
The major difference is that the component limits finance to only skills training with high inter-firm mobility. It
would be mainly targeted to small and medium sized enterprises with 50 employees or less.
13.    A follow-up survey will be carried out for those who receive training in order to determine the cost-
effectiveness of the proposed program in terms of job creation.
C. Labor Mobility Phase II Costs
(a) Labor Mobility Component
14.    Compensation costs of early retirement program (not funded by IDA) are estimated to range from LE
2,000 to LE 7,000 per person. Financial assistance to start to new businesses would cost around LE 2,000 per
worker. The average cost for retraining redundant workers in public sector enterprises is estimated to be US$1,000
per trainee, while the cost for training workers in private sector enterprises would range from US$1,000 to
US$5,000. Target number of workers trained in this component would be 15,000 and 5,000 workers for public and
private sector employees respectively. For both public and private enterprises, the maximum training period per
worker would be six months. Estimated total program cost for this component would be US$30 million.
(b) Small and Medium Enterprise Skills Development Component
15.    The enterprise skills development training is estimated to cost US$1,000 per person. It is expected that
cost would vary according to the type of skill training. Duration of training would not exceed six months for any
type of skills training. The target number of participants for this training component would be 7,000 workers over 4



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
years. The program would also include a labor market survey which would cost around US$3,000 per governorate.
Thus, the estimated total program cost for this component would be US$10 million. Overall, the total cost for
Human Resources Development Program is estimated to be US$40 million.
D. Monitoring Indicators
16.    The monitoring indicators of the program would be the number of workers who received training or the
number of workers received assistance under this program. Proposed monitoring indicators for Phase 11 Human
Resources Development Program are shown in the table below:
Proposed Monitoring Targets Indicators for Human Resources Development
Item                                    1997-2000 [1997   1998 ] 1999   2000
(I). Labor Mobility Component         l
A. Public Enterprises
No. of workers received compensation for     3,000    750    750    750    750
early retirement
No. of redundant workers received            6,000   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500
retraining                                                I
No. of workers received assistance for       6,000   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500
starting new business
B. Private Enterprises
No. of workers received training             5,000   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250
(II). Enterprise Skills Development                           _
No. of workers in small and medium size      7,000   1,750   1,750   1,750   1,750
enterprises received training                                     I _
17.    In addition to above target indicators, the impact of the proposed program would be measured by other
indicators such as the number of new jobs created by this program, number of workers acquired the required level
of skills after training, and the number of new businesses created by this prograrn.
E. Stage of Preparation
18.    This LMP part of this program is already on-going and needs to supported as an accompaniment to Egypt's
industrial restructuring process. The same approach will be applied in supporting the private sector affected by
trade liberalization with one major difference. The program will fund only training costs and not stipends. The
same rule will apply to small and medium enterprise training.
19.    The Government of France is currently providing technical assistance to SFD to help assess the quality of
Egypt's public and private training institutes. The consultants will also be looking at the proposed human resource
development program and provide guidance to SFD.
20.    The next step is to carry out informal surveys on labor mobility by skill in Egypt and use the results to
calibrate the proportion of subsidy to be given to the private sector.



ANNEX 5: SFD ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE AND ECONOMIC ANALySIS FOR PHASE 11
A.      Achievements to Date
I1.     Despite a slow start due to the need to find proper staff and put in place proper procedures, SFD has made
considerable progress and has achieved significant results. Tables I and 2 show disbursements and employment
generation achieved by SFD. Note that there is a slow-down in the productive families program after 1993. This
was due to the need to assimilate properly the large number of families brought in during year 1993. More modest
and steady annual targets have been established for Phase 11.
Table 1: Egypt Social Fund for Development Targets Achieved Through June 30, 1995
Total Funding        Employment Opportunities
Program                  |L.E. Million   US$  Million   Temporary  Permanent    Beneficiaries
Public Works                     488.7         143.8       23,051          3,101      5,000,000
Community Development             192.2         56.6       30,392         76,526      2,581,019
Enterprise Development            798.1        234.9       32,388        147,178       736,297
Emp. & Re-training                 29.5          8.7        1,103          3,164        21,335
Total                           1,508.6        444.0       86,934        229,969      8,338,651
Table 2: Targets Achieved During SFD Phase I
Item                         Average Unit  1993    1994    1995 T  Total
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  C ost   L E
A. Public Works Program
1. Environmental Infrastructure
a. Wastewater networks in km.                             145,000       _        6      12         18
b. Wastewater treatment plants (# of subproj.)            561,705       _                2         2
c. Wastewater pump stations (# of subproj.)                80,635                1       1         2
d. Canal covering in km.                                  455,000       4       14      16        34
e. Canal protection in km.                                378,000      27       55      92       175
f Channel maintenance in km.                               25,000           _          600       600
g. Other project (# of subproj.) 1/                        14,500      38       98      11       147
2. Potable Water
a. Networks in km                                          37,924      84      557     833      1,474
b. Elevated and ground tanks (units)                      204,354       _        8      44        52
c. Artisian wells (units)                                  18,978       2       48      64       114
d. Other projects (# of subproj.) 2/                       19,635       2       21      95       118
3. Rural Roads
a. Road construction in km                                142,853      15      136     266       417
b. Road improvement in km                                  35,900       5       20                25
4. Building Refurbishment
a. Clinics (units)                                         46,016      12       38      74       124
b. Youth centers (units)                                   50,215       1       76      91       168
c. Schools (units)                                         41,246      27     200      146       373
d. Social centers (units)                                  76,851                6      14        31
e. Other projects (# of subprojects) 3/                    48,643               26      32        59
Notes:
1/ Filling ponds, irrigation structure maintenance.
2/  Pump room, water station fence, water intake upgrading and tank renovation.
3/  Veterinary units, nursery and public service buildings.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
Table 2 (Continued)
B. Community Development Program
1. Health Services
a. Number of health clinics equipped 4/                   8,214      17       11      18        46
b. Number of awareness campaigns 5/                       2,282     127     209      233      569
c. Number of health personnel trained 6/                    930      28      28      764      820
2. Education & Training
Number of classrooms established 7/                    28,675               7      180       187
b. Number of illiteracy classes established                 501   1,450   4,924   2,758      9,132
c. Number of individuals trained to teach literacy classes  2,347   1,619   4,180   3,442    9,241
d. Number of beneficiaries receiving vocational training    245     329   2,013   6,027      8,369
e. Number of training workshops equipped                 48,965      12       9        7        28
3. Productive Families Loan Program
a. Number of fainilies                             Not applicable  21,626   5,944    239    27,809
b. Number of loans                            _    Not applicable  21,626   5,944    239    27,809
c. Percentage loans under L.E. 15,000 8/           Not applicable   100%    100%    100%
d. Average loan size                               Not applicable   1,200   1,200   1,200 _
4. NGOs Capacity Building
a. Upgrading technical & admin. capacity                  2,285      57                8        65
5. Support to Youth and Community Centers 9/
a. Community centers equipped                            Not yet      _                -         -
b. Youth centers equipped                                Not yet       _         _      _
6. Environment
a. Number of environmental projects 10/                 800,000       2        1       4         7
C. Enterprise Development Program 11/
1. Contracted amount (L.E. Million)                 Not applicable 488,228 257,183 390,077 1,135,488
2. Disbursement to beneficiaries (L.E. Million)     Not applicable  92,496 437,094 161,475   691,065
3. Number of enterprises                            Not applicable   8,694  11,823  18,572    39,089
4. Number of entrepreneurs                          Not applicable   8,694  13,755  21,087    43,536
5. Average cost of enterprise                              17,037  10,639  31,777   8,694          -
6. Employment opportunities
a. Number of permanent empl. opp. 12/              Not applicable  22,604  35,763  45,774   104,141
b. Number of temporary empl. opp.                  Not applicable   8,799  13,921  17,818    40,538
7. Total permanent equivalent 13/                   Not applicable  25,637  40,403  51,713   117,753
8. Average cost per job                                     5,854   3,622  10,818   3,122
Notes:
4/  Number of health clinics includes clinics totally or partially equipped.
5/  Number of awareness campaigns includes health, social and environmental awareness.
6/ Number of health personnel trained includes physicians, nurses, and extension workers in health.
7/ Number of classrooms established: for some classes CDP provides furniture and refurbishment and for other classes.
CDP only fumishes.
8/  100% of loans are below 15,000 L.E. because the maximum loan size allowed to CDP loans is 7,000 L.E.
9/  These represent now activities for which projects are still under contracting.
10/ Environmental projects include potable water, latrines, garbage collection, drainage, backfilling, pest spraying and tree
planting.
11/ Figures for the EDP are up to November 8, 1995.
12/ Permanent jobs at 2.6xnumber of entrepreneurs.
13/ 3 temporary jobs are equivalent to I permanent job.
2.      The data in Table 2 shows that SFD has made considerable progress. The data for 1995 is annualized
based on the results accomplished up to September, 1995. The unit costs data shows that the SFD is quite efficient.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
B. Economic Rate of Return Analysis for Phase 11
3.      While the formal targeting indicators developed for Phase 11 are given in Table 3.1 in the main report, the
data in Annex 1, Table 3 show a wider range of indicators which will be used to guide operations during phase II.
These have been developed based on experience of the on-going phase. However, as SFD is a demand driven
operation these figures are subject to change. They are primarily meant to give SFD guidance. The sub-project
distribution underlying the indicators in Annex 5, Table 3 were also used as the basis for economic analysis of
Phase 11.
Table 3: SFD Phase H1 Monitoring Targets
Item                                                         1 1997-20001   19971   19981   19991    2000
A. Public Works Program
1. Environmental Infrastructure
a.Wastewater Upgrading (# of Subprojects)                             25        6        6        6         6
b. Wastewater Networks in Kilometers                                 125       31       31       31        31
c. Wastewater Treatment Plants (# of sub-projects)                    20        5        5        5         5
d. Wastewater Pump Stations (# of sub-projects)                       20        5        5        5         5
e. Canal Covering in Kilometers                                       50       13       13       13        13
f Canal Protection in Kilometers                                     125       31       31       31        31
2. Potable Water
a. Networks in Kilometers                                            500      125      125      125       125
|b. Elevated and Ground Tanks                                         40       10       10       10        10
c. Artesian Wells                                                     40       10       10       10        10
3. Rural Roads
a. Road Construction in Kilometers                                   125       31       31       31        31
b. Road Improvement in Kilometers                                   400       100      100      100       100
4. Building Refurbishment                                                I
a. Clinics (units)                                                    60       15       15       15        15
b. Youth Centers (units)                                              60       15       15       15        15
c. Schools (units)                                                    60       15       15       15        15
d. Social Centers (units)                                             60       15       15       15        15
B. Community Development Program
1. Health Services
a. No. of Health Clinics rehab./estab/ equipped                      130       33       33       33        33
b. No. of Health Awareness Campaigns                                600       150      150      150       150
c. No. of Health Personnel Trained                                  500       125      125      125       125
2. Education and Training                                               I_I
a. No. of Classrooms established                                     130       33       33       33        33
b. No. of People in Illiteracy Classes                            15,000    3,750    3,750    3,750     3,750
c. No. of Individuals Trained to Teach Illiteracy Classes           700       175      175      175       175
d. No. of Beneficiaries Receiving Vocational Training             14,000    3,500    3,500    3,500     3,500
e. No. of Training Workshops Equipped                                150       38       38       38        38
3. Productive Families (Micro-enterprises) Loan Program
a. Number of Loan Recipients                                      40,000   10,000   10,000   10,000    10,000
b. Average Loan Size                                               3,000     750       750      750       750
4. Support to Youth and Community Centers_
a. Community Centers Equipped
b. Youth Centers Equipped                                              3        1        1        1         1



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
Table 3 (Continued)
C Enterprise Development Program
1. Number of Enterprises                                1   40,0001  10,OC        10,000        10,000
2. Number of Entrepreneurs                              |   45,0001 11,250  11,250   11,250    11,250
D. Human Resources Development Program
Expected Number of Trainees                                  24,000   6,0001  6,000   6,00       6,000
E. Overall Job Creation Targets
1. Public Works Program                                 |_|_T_T_T
a. Temporary Jobs in Person Years                           27,200   6,800   6,800   6,800      6,800
b. Permanent Employment Opportunities                        4,000   1,000   1,000   1,000       1,000
2. Community Development Program
a. Number of Temporary Jobs in Person Years                  4,000   1,000   1,000   1,000      1,000
b. Number of Permanent Jobs Created                         41,000   10,250  10,250  10,250    10,250
3. Enterprise Development Program
a. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities            160,000  40,000  40,000  40,000    40,000
b. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities             50,000  12,500  12,500  12,500    12,500
TOTAL NUMBER OF JOBS                                        286,200  71,5501 71,5501 71,550    71,550
TOTAL POPULA TION GETTING ADDITIONAL INCOME               1,431,000 357,750 357,750 357,750   357,750
4.      Economic Evaluation: It is difficult to calculate an ERR for the overall project given the difficulty of
quantifying benefits of some of its activities such as upgrading public health, environment, job-training, etc.
Nevertheless, SFD attempts to quantify benefits wherever possible using willingness to pay (for community
services); estimates of travel costs savings (roads); rental values (community buildings); and enhanced prospects for
earnings (technical training and enterprise development). A minimum threshold rate of return of 12 percent is
required. These estimates should be treated with caution given that they are based on subjective assumptions.
5.      Table 4 shows the phasing of the different costs and benefits for every thousand Egyptian Pounds of
investment. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) analysis excludes health and literacy projects as well as
institutional development projects. It also excludes microenterprises even though they are subjected to financial
sustainability tests. The ERR analysis therefore covers almost 75 percent of project funds and can be considered
good representation of the project.
6.      Based on a sample of projects financed during Phase I and extrapolating rates of return across the entire
program, the rate of return for the activities with quantifiable benefits which account for some 75 percent of project
cost, is estimated to be 21 percent. A sensitivity test was carried out by reducing benefits by 20 percent while
constant cost showed the ERR to be about 15 percent. These estimates should be treated with caution given that they
are based on subjective assumptions.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
Table 4: Costs and Benefits per 1000 LE of Investment and its Phasing
INVESTMENT COSTS             RECURRENT COSTS
Item                 Year I Year 2 Year 3 Year 4+ Year I Year 2 Year 3 Year 4+
A. Public Works Program
1. Environmental Infrastructure         500   500                      0      0     15      30
2. Potable Water                        500   500                                    15     30
3. Rural Roads                          500   500                      0      0    50      100
4. Building Refurbishment               500   500                      0      0     15      30
B. Community Development Program
1. Health Services                    1,000                                 100   200      300
2. Education & Training                1,000                                100   200      300
3. Productive Families Loan Program    1,000                                100  1,200   1,500
C. Enterprise Development Program      1,000                                300   400      400
D. Human Resources Program            1,000                                 100   200      100
E. Institutional Development           1,000                                100   200      300
BENEFITS                  NET BENEFITS
Year I Year 2 Year 3 Year 4+ Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4+
A. Public Works Program
I. Environmental Infrastructure                      N/A      N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A        N/A
2. Potable Water                                      110    220  -500   -500    95         190
3. Rural Roads                                        150     300  -500   -500    100      200
4. Building Refurbishment                             100     200  -500  -500    85         170
B. Community Development Program
1. Health Services                    N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A
2. Education & Training               N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A
3. Productive Families Loan Program           N/A  N/A    N/A    N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A
C. Enterprise Development Program              250    500     800 -1,000   -150            400
D. Human Resources Program                     200   300      300 -1,000    100   100      200
E. Institutional Development          N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A



ANNEX 6: PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND CRITERIA FOR SUB-PROJECTS
A.     Project Management
1.     The SFD was established by a presidential decree issued in 1991, as an autonomous agency with legal
personality and technical, financial and administrative flexibility which reports directly to the President. The
autonomous nature of SFD is govemed in accordance with the provision of its Articles of Agreement, By-laws, and
the Framework Agreement between SFD and the government. The SFD's autonomous nature, which includes
authority to enter into contracts, establish its own operating procedures, including those for procurement and
disbursement, facilitates its ability to work with regional governments, private sector contractors, community
organizations and NGOs in an efficient and effective manner.
2.     The SFD Board of Directors (BOD) acts as a technical steering committee. It is chaired by the Prime
Minister, and is comprised of fifteen members, including eight ministers and seven representatives from the private
sector. Ministerial representation on the BOD eliminates duplication of efforts and ensures adherence to sector
priorities. The BOD is responsible for establishing SFD's guidelines for project approval and follow-up, operational
guidelines and prioritization of projects. In addition, to having policy making functions and approving SFD's
Operating Manual and annual budgets, the BOD accepts financial contributions and authorizes disbursement of
funds.
3.     To allow for efficiency and flexibility in implementation, an Executive Committee (EC) chaired by the
chairman of the BOD was created with eight members from the private sector. This is consistent with the
institutional set-up and autonomy of other successful social funds. The EC evaluates projects submitted to the SFD
prior to presentation to the BOD, and is authorized to approve projects in the amount of US$500,000 up to US$3
million. The EC has also been designated to act on behalf of the BOD and approve guidelines for manuals and sub-
projects, establish guidelines for implementation of projects approved by the BOD; delineate resource availability;
and maintain regular contact with donors.
4.     Daily operations of SFD including the hiring and management of national and regional staff (a total of 133)
are the responsibility of the Managing Director (MD), who is appointed by the Board. The MD prepares the work
programs; approves sub-projects under US$500,000; authorizes all disbursements; prepares progress reports and
presents them to the BOD.
5.     The SFD's well-defined administrative structure contributes to its efficient management of operations, as
well as its ability to absorb an increased volume of projects. It is envisaged that the current structure will be
retained for the most part, with a stronger emphasis being placed on a demand driven approach, as well as more
decentralization of authority and functions to the field and satellite offices.
6.     The national office is comprised of five departments headed by individual Director Generals reporting
directly to the MD. (Refer to Annex -- for an organizational chart , and Annex -- for a detailed description of the
roles of respective departments)  They are: (i) Finance, Administration and Personnel, (ii) Public Works; (iii)
Community Development; (iv) Enterprise Development; and (v) Human Resources.  These departments are
supported by five units which in turn report directly to the MD and serve to facilitate the overall objectives of SFD.
7.     The supporting units are: (a) Management Information Systems (MIS) responsible for maintaining the MIS;
(b) Credit responsible for determining the credit worthiness of projects involving intermediary agencies and/or
beneficiaries for both the Community Development and Enterprise Development Programs; (c) Projects and
Planning office, (includes a monitoring targeting evaluation and studies unit), with requisite skills to plan and
review SFD activities, as well as appraise and evaluate projects; (d) Legal mandated to prepare framework
agreements and handle related legal matters: (e) International Cooperation Affairs and Information for Public
Relations Department charged with managing and organizing marketing campaigns involving information
dissemination on the role of SFD as well as handling problems arising from poor communication; and (f) Internal
Auditing which reports directly to the MD and BOD.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
8.      The Cairo office provides support to the regions, prepares technical plans and budgets for sub-projects,
deals with financial transactions of the sub-projects, assists with procurement, plans and coordinates training. The
SFD is represented outside of Cairo through ten regional and six satellite offices.' The regional and satellite offices
are the main point of contact between requesting agencies and SFD, they provide advice to communities, NGOs,
and regional government on SFD procedures; receiving completed application forms; coordinating sub-project
appraisal committees; and conducting field appraisals and launch workshops. The regional and satellite offices are
linked to the national offices through telephones and facsimiles. An emphasis on a more decentralized role for the
regional and satellite offices during Phase 11 will be encouraged. This will allow for improved synergy between
different programs, speed up the approval process, and help improve the impact of SFD activities on the intended
beneficiaries.
9.      Sub-project Cycle. The SFD initiates and accepts sub-project proposals submitted by a sponsoring agency
(SA) to any ten of the regional or six satellite offices,2. The selection of SA proposals for loans or grants3 are based
on specific guidelines established in the Operational Manual. SFD accepts sub-project proposals submitted by SAs
to the national, regional and satellite offices, based on clearly articulated guidelines established in the Operational
Manual. With assistance from trained university students (technical training is provided to the students for this
specific task) regional and satellite offices provide SAs with assistance in proposal preparation when needed.
10.     A preliminary screening is conducted by the regional and satellite offices which is then forwarded to the
national office for a detailed desk and field appraisal. As reflected in the Operational Manual, the basic elements of
sub-project appraisal are guided by: technical feasibility; social and institutional analysis; as well as simplified
economic and environmental analysis. Contributions in kind or cash will also be determinants of sub-project
eligibility, especially during Phase II.
Il.     Depending on the amount of financing requested from SFD, sub-projects can be approved either by the EC
or the MD based on precise selection criteria detailed in the Operational Manual. Upon the formal approval of a
sub-project, a framework agreement is drawn up between SFD  and each SA.  These agreements specify
responsibilities of each party: procurement methods; implementation schedules; financial terms and conditions;
and SA contribution; supervision, completion and handover mechanisms.
12.     The SFD financed sub-projects have been implemented rapidly and efficiently. Several factors explain
SFD's ability to process and approve projects rapidly. Paramount among these is the effective management style
displayed by the MD and his staff. Furthermore, SFD's status as a statutory organization outside the civil services
has helped contain political pressure. A sound administrative structure, and the clear delineation of responsibility
and accountability to staff in charge of promotion and appraisal of sub-projects is another factor contributing to
SFD's success in implementation. As does the partnership with local communities, close association with NGOs
and local Government and the use of standardized project types, which considerably simplifies project preparation
and streamlines project processing. This, combined with extensive screening, has led to an acceptance rate of 65-70
percent of the proposals submitted, a figure comparable with other social funds.
B.      Operational Manual/Sub-project Selection Criteria
13.     As is the tradition of all social funds, SFD is governed by a set of clear guidelines and operating procedures
approved by the Government and IDA.  It details SFD's organization, staffing, administration, financial
Satellite offices were established in order to provide better coordination with activities carried out in govemorates, and to
allow for closer monitoring and follow-up.
2    SAs include ministries, the public or private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and communities.
Grants are targeted towards infrastructure projects in rural communities as well as poor urban neighborhoods, and loans
towards income generating activities.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
arrangements and operating procedures and sub-project selection criteria (discussed in length in the following
paragraphs). The fundamental rules governing the operational manual will be retained and strengthened, and other
elements will be revised to assure that the organization retains its dynamic nature.
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
14.    Proposals funded under the Egypt Social Fund (SFD) project fall within a typology of subprojects (SPs)
encompassing public works, enterprise development, community development programs and more recently, human
resources development (this component is new and the SP selection criteria are currently being developed). These
components were designed with a view to: (i) a reduction in the levels of poverty through supporting employment
generation and community development efforts; (ii) mitigating the negative impact o the Economic Reform and
Structural Adjustment Program; and (iii) creating employment opportunities for the Gulf returnees as well as
unemployed youth.
15.    Selection and evaluation of SPs as well as Sponsoring Agencies (SAs) are guided by transparent evaluation
and selection criteria delineated in the Operating Manual of the SFD. The principal elements of SP selection
procedures emphasize: (i) general criteria; (ii) social criteria; (iii) technical feasibility; and (iv) sustainability,
including financial and institutional analysis. These selection criteria apply to all components within the SFD
program. It should be noted that for the Public Works program, Enterprise Development and Microenterprise
programs, additional criteria have been developed to reflect the specific needs of those sectors.
General Selection Criteria
* The objectives of the sub-project should comply and attempt to achieve the overall goals of the Egypt Social
Fund, and the programs should encourage the participation of the private sector, NGOs and voluntary
institutions
* The sub-project should be identified on the basis of direct contacts with the target groups in the target
geographical areas, so that project components represent community priorities
* The participation of women should be an integral component, especially in the CDP and EDP SPs, either as
targeted beneficiaries or in project management and execution
* The proposed SPs must not be included in any government action program in order to avoid duplication of
activities
* An acceptable level of community participation should be demonstrated either directly or through a sponsoring
agency (SA) (i.e. local government, NGO, local development communities)
* The SP should generate employment opportunities at a suitable cost and finance labor intensive technology
when deemed appropriate
* A plan for sustainability and maintenance should be prepared as part of the proposal and mechanisms to ensure
it's continued operations into the future should be demonstrated
*  The SP should conform with national norms and standards
* Written authorization of permits from local and regional governments should be obtained, and coordination of
public and private institutions in SP implementation should be ensured
Selection criteria for the CDP are guided by the general, social, institutional, and financial guidelines of the
SFD. Specific selection criteria for CDP have not been developed.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
*  The project should demonstrate an acceptable cost per beneficiary
*  Technical feasibility of SPs should be demonstrated
*  Administrative costs of an SP should not exceed 10 percent of total costs. SA's are allowed to charge a
sponsorship fee not to exceed 5 percent of the total project cost.
*  Target Groups:      a/ Lower income communities, particularly in rural govemorates
b/ Communities lacking complete or partial access to the basic and essential public
services
c/ Redundant workers in the public sector enterprises
d/ Gulf returnees, who are unemployed
e/ Unemployed youth
f/ Women
*  The SP design should be environmentally sound
DETAILED CRITERIA
Social Criteria
* The proposed SP should cover a target theme
* The population in the area to be covered
* Available social indicators for the area
* The request must originate with the community
* The SP responds to the priorities of the majority of beneficiary households
* The Community will play an active role in implementation and monitoring or implementation
Technical Criteria
*  Conformity with and complementary to national planning
* Norms and standards, if any, established by a concerned Ministry are adhered to
Description of the general state of the infrastructure, access to water and sanitation
* Works to be undertaken, equipment and materials to be procured, schedule of works
* Total area of infrastructure
* For expansion, suitability of area for expansion
* Local availability of essential materials needed for a SP
Economic and Financial Criteria
* The financing plan, should include contributions from SAs/beneficiaries either in cash or kind for public work
SPs. For projects over US$0.5 million, the economic rate of return should exceed 12 percent
* Cost benefit analysis, and or/cost per beneficiary
* Sustainability, i.e., the capacity to provide for successful operations and maintenance beyond the investment
period, including cost recovery in cash or kind, when appropriate
=: the central or local Government and/or beneficiaries (including SAs) should offer some form of
operations and maintenance assurances
=> adequate training for operations and maintenance should be included in SFD's training budget
Institutional and Management Criteria
*  Sufficient institutional arrangements to ensure rigor in SP implementation and subsequent operations and
management, while at the same time taking into account ease and speed of implementation
*  Communities should have guidance and receive technical assistance from SAs (i.e. the existence of a supporting
agency when the implementing agency is weak in SP execution)



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
*  Current personnel availability of the beneficiary representatives (communities, SAs etc..), skill levels,
attendance frequency
*  For SPs requiring expansion, the availability of additional personnel, skill level and attendance frequency
*  Necessary equipment, and materials to adequately deliver services at the estimated levels
Selection Criteria for the Community Development Program
Objective: CDP activities are designed to: (i) finance improvements in productive activities (discussed under the
selection criteria of the EDP/CDP section) ; (ii) social development activities (health, education, and training) to
improve the essential services to the poor communities
As indicated in the early part of the document the selection criteria for the CDP are guided by the general, social,
financial and economic, and institutional and management guidelines of the SFD. Specific selection criteria for
CDP have not been developed
Selection Criteria for the Public Works Program
Objective: To transfer incomes, while strengthening local infrastructure development and creating employment
opportunities through the use of labor intensive works
*  Types of SPs financed: Irrigation and Drainage Project; Maintenance and improvement of Rural roads and
Village Entrances; Improvement of the Village Market Place; Landscaping; Solid Waste Management; potable
water projects; and Sanitary Drainage System and Lowering the Subsoil Water Level
  Target groups are unemployed workers in the lower income bracket and poor rural communities, in addition to
redundant workers and returning gulf returnees
*  The SPs undertaken should aim to create permanent jobs, through operation and maintenance activities for
financed projects
. SPs should employ simple technology, suitable for labor intensive public works programs
*  Employment of local contractors within the targeted community should be fostered
*  Labor wages to the project fund should exceed 25 percent
*  Utilization of mechanical equipment is not encouraged, unless strongly justified, and approved by the project
engineer and the SFD representatives
*  Certain categories/components are excluded, such as: financing the wages of permanent labor following project
completion; and the purchase of mechanical equipment
*  Ensuring operations and maintenance beyond the life of the project is a pre-requisite
Selection Criteria for the Enterprise Development Program and Microenterprise Program within the CDP5
Objective: Creating employment through the support for new and existing small enterprises by providing a
package of technical assistance, training and credit.
Banks
*  Bank profitability, leverage and liquidity
*  Risk associated with the asset and liability management of the bank. Ability to repay back loans
*  Identification of the geographical location of the bank and its network (ability to extend credit to diverse
geographic areas)
*  Asset/portfolio quality
*  The bank's ability to market it's products to the end beneficiaries
*  Ability to ensure rapid delivery of credit lines, this requires the adoption of quick methods for evaluating and
extending funds to beneficiaries.
The difference between CDP and EDP is the average loans size. CDP loans average US$500 and are
channeled through NGOs, EDP loans average US$4,000 and are channeled through Banks.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
* Banks must be willing to establish special units for the utilization of SFD funds. These units would evaluate
and monitor loans, and generate reports requested by SFD and allow for external auditing of SFD transactions
* Assessment of the bank's absorptive capacity of loan officers
* SFD credit terms with respect to the average loan size, simple collateral, interest rates should be adopted
SA 's Inmlementing Credit Programs
*  The implementing SA must be a non-profit organization or development foundation with experience in credit
delivery
*  Organizational structure should be decentralized to ensure rapid delivery of credit and management support to
the target groups
*  The implementing agency should demonstrate tan effective loan monitoring system that relies on close contact
and follow-up with loan beneficiaries through an established extension system
Selection Criteria of a Sponsoring Agency
* It should have an independent legal status and be certified to receive grants or loans and to implement activities
* Technical capacity is required for SP project preparation, supervision and monitoring. If capacity is lacking,
SFD can provide the relevant training to build up local capacity
* Past experience in implementing similar SP(s) is preferred
- Financial accounts are reviewed
SFD funds allocations should be carefully recorded
- Permission should be obtained from the respective ministry and related agencies to operate in a particular sector
- Technical personnel assigned to carry out activities in the specified sector (health, education, PW) should be
qualified and officially certified in their area of responsibility, and have at least two years of experience
C Community representation and direct links with the communities is required
- Provide assurances of operations and maintenance of SPs.
16.    Revisions of SFD's operational manual will reflect the evolving nature of the organization as well as
recommendations emerging from studies and evaluations conducted on all aspects of management and organization.
It is envisaged that revisions would highlight: (i) the fund's more decentralized role; (ii) participatory and demand-
driven approach; (iii) the merging of income generating activities as well as re-designing its current methodology;
(iv) improving synergy between different interventions; and (v) providing transparency through "two-way-
communication". These revisions were discussed during the appraisal mission and it was agreed that any revisions
to the operating manual affecting project implementation would require prior approval from IDA.
C.     Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Structure
17.    The SFD enjoys a sophisticated computer based management information system (MIS) designed to
monitor the physical and financial progress of sub-project implementation and evaluate SFD's overall performance.
As a monitoring device, it provides transparency and accountability of SFD activities, maintains data on targeting,
and facilitates contracting and payment. The MIS tracks SFD activities through the sub-project cycle, including
sub-project data, supervision, and identifies cost overruns and potential bottlenecks. MIS generated performance
reports are an integral part of the monthly report submitted by SFD management to the BOD for their review, and
the quarterly reports and annual reports submitted to donors. For the most part, SFD Phase 11 will build and extend
the monitoring system currently in place. Modifications will be aimed at enhancing monitoring and allowing for a
widespread desegregation of information. Specifically, improvements are aimed at: (a) enhancing information
dissemination on approval and disbursements at the SFD secretariat level; and (b) introducing a more participatory
approach in sub-project monitoring, by actively involving sponsoring agencies (SAs) in the process and thus
minimizing gaps in data reporting and recording requirements, which may lead to delays and discrepancies, which
undermine the usefulness of the system.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
18.    In order to address the first issue, the Planning and Programs Department will be responsible for collecting
information from the various operational departments (i.e., Finance, Community Development, Public Works,
Enterprise Development) and generating detailed information on approval and disbursement rates This will
facilitate and enhance SFD's tracking system and thus allow for a more transparent and accountable assessment of
financial flows required for day-to-day management decision-making.
19.    The second revision is crucial as it provides the baseline information for beneficiary and impact
assessments, and provides the bulk of the input for MIS project portfolio tracking. Currently, gaps exists in data
reporting and recording requirements, which have led to an ineffective and inaccurate application of the monitoring
system.
20.    In order to resolve this shortcoming, and to be consistent with SFD's participatory nature, SA's will receive
proper training which will enable them to become actively involved in monitoring progress on sub-projects output
delivered indicators. Information pertaining to outcome indicators and beneficiary assessments will be contracted-
out to specialized agencies possessing the necessary statistical capability, except in the cases where SFD regional
staff have the capacity to undertake beneficiary assessment. Information generated from the various indicators will
be forwarded to the Planning and Programs Department at SFD on a quarterly basis, which will allow for the
generation of a quarterly report following SFD spot checks. This approach ensures consistency with the intended
use of resource allocation and will safeguard SFD's role of poverty and unemployment reduction.
21.    In the case where SA's lack the technical or financial skills required for monitoring output delivered
indicators, SFD regional staff will provide training and/or assistance to fill the managerial and financial gaps, and
work in collaboration with SA's to fulfill their mandate.  This approach will serve as a springboard for
systematizing the delivery of training to address common constraints encountered in monitoring, and enhance
information dissemination, as well as prioritization and identification of community needs. More importantly, this
approach will assist in developing local capacity.
22.    A strengthening of ex-post evaluation, to be carried out by private firms and NGOS including beneficiary
assessment is being proposed and will provide critical information relating to inputs required to improve
intervention with the target population and determine the relationship between currently utilized methods in sub-
project cycle as well as beneficiary satisfaction. Improving client relations and enhancing communications between
SFD and its partners is actively being pursued by a separate unit "the International Cooperation Affairs and
Information for Public Relations unit". Staff from this unit will be assigned to all regional and satellite offices and
would report directly to the MD. The unit would address problems arising from poor communications and
recommend corrective actions, as well as organize information dissemination carnpaigns.



ANNEx 7: MONITORING DURING PHASE 11
1.     Egypt's Social Fund for Development (SFD) 11 builds on and extends the monitoring system already in
place under SFD 1. The enhanced monitoring system under SFD 11 will help to answer two key questions about
SFD's impact: first, what benefits is SFD providing; and second, to whom are these benefits provided.
A.     Some Concepts
2.     Impact monitoring is defined here to include three types of monitoring: (i) implementation progress
monitoring; (ii) outcome monitoring; and (iii) targeting effectiveness monitoring. These concepts are discussed
below.
* Implementation Progress Monitoring. Implementation progress monitoring tracks the extent to which the
intended goods and services (inputs and outputs) are being delivered.
* Outcome Monitoring. Outcome monitoring tracks the extent to which the development objectives which
underlie the delivery of the specific goods and services are being achieved.
* Targeting Effectiveness Monitoring. Targeting effectiveness monitoring tracks the extent to which the groups
and individuals intended to benefit are actually benefiting.
B.     Significance of Systematic Monitoring and Targeting
3.     Importance of Monitoring. The main purpose of monitoring the implementation progress and outcomes
of SFD interventions is to be able to make adjustments in design and implementation as warranted. Effective
monitoring is a useful management tool and can provide early warning signals about impending problems.
4.     There are two levels at which it is important to monitor SFD operations: (a) at the level of the SFD
headquarters; and (b) at the level of the subprojects undertaken by SFD's sponsoring agencies. Monitoring the
overall functioning of the SFD secretariat can highlight opportunities for improving its efficiency (e.g., increasing
operational speed), and informing SFD policy (e.g., the need to focus resources on Governorates with high
poverty/unemployment indices that may have received lower resources than their allocation). The importance of
monitoring the progress of subprojects undertaken by sponsoring agencies emerges from the fact that SFD differs
from traditional projects in that it does not design or implement subprojects itself, but relies, instead, on a large
number of small and widely dispersed organizations to do so; monitoring the extent to which the various activities
of these organizations are consistent with the intended use of the resources allocated to them is critical.
5.     Importance of Targeting.  Given scarce resources and the unlimited needs of the poor and the
unemployed, the chances of SFD achieving its goal of providing an effective safety net for the poor and the
unemployed would be enhanced by improving the targeting of its resources to these groups.
6.     Cost of Monitoring. Monitoring has definite costs in terms of staff time and the budget. But, these costs
should be weighed against its longer term benefits. While no precise calculations have been made here of the cost
of the proposed monitoring system, three factors indicate that these costs are not likely to place an undue burden on
the SFD headquarters. First, SFD's existing monitoring system already systematically records and regularly updates
information on SFD approvals and disbursements, the total number of beneficiaries, and the number of temporary
and permanent jobs created by each SFD component. Hence, the marginal cost of compiling the additional
information that the proposed monitoring system entails should be relatively low. Second, the responsibility for
collecting the required information on Implementation Progress will vest with the sponsoring agencies -- not SFD.
The sponsoring agencies will report this information regularly to SFD which will record the information in its
database after spot checks on its accuracy. Third, with regard to data on Outcomes and Targeting Effectiveness, the



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
sponsoring agencies will again be responsible for their collection, but in those cases where the sponsoring agencies
lack the capacity to collect this information and for whose collection SFD has to assume responsibility, this
information will be collected only on a sample basis -- not for all SFD subprojects or beneficiaries. Nevertheless,
the new monitoring system will entail some costs and these should be factored into SFD's costing process. It is
recommended that the cost of the new monitoring system be closely monitored as soon as it begins operation and
adjustments made in its scope as necessary.
C.      Indicative List of Performance Indicators for SFD
7.      Based on the three types of impact monitoring discussed above, indicators are divided into three categories:
* Outputs Delivered Indicators. These indicators provide an overview of the goods and services actually
delivered by the various SFD components -- they reflect implementation progress;
* Outcome Indicators. These indicators provide an indication of whether the purposes for which the various
goods and services are being delivered are being achieved -- they reflect outcomes; and
* Beneficiary Profile Indicators. These indicators help to determine whether the actual beneficiaries of SFD are
indeed the ones that it intended to benefit -- they reflect targeting effectiveness. '
D.      Data Collection and Reporting Methodology for the Identified Indicators
8.      Pyramidical Data Collection and Reporting Structure. The Projects and Planning Department of SFD
will be responsible for managing the new monitoring system. It will maintain a central database and update the
information on each of the identified performance indicators every quarter. The data collection and reporting
structure is outlined below.
9.      The Approval and Disbursement indicators as well as the Operational Speed indicators will be directly
under the charge of the Projects and Planning Department with this department calling upon information from SFD's
Finance Department and the SFD operational departments (i.e., CDP, EDP, and PWP Departments, and the Credit
Department for information on SFD loans) as needed. Many of these indicators are already systematically collected
and updated by the Projects and Planning Department.
10.     For the Outputs Delivered indicators, the Projects and Planning Department will receive systematic inputs
relating to the identified indicators every quarter from the operational departments. The operational departments
will, in turn, receive information on these indicators from the sponsoring agencies, also every quarter. The
sponsoring agencies will maintain records of the outputs they deliver to their beneficiaries and report these data to
the operational departments. Staff from the operational departments will confirm the accuracy of the Outputs
Delivered data provided by sponsoring agencies by regularly conducting checks during supervision visits to the sub-
project sites.
11.     The responsibility for collecting data on Outcome indicators and Beneficiary Profile indicators will also lie
with the sponsoring agencies who will provide this information to the relevant SFD operational department, who
will in turn, provide it to the Projects and Planning Department every quarter after spot checking its accuracy. The
sponsoring agencies should design the performance monitoring system for their subprojects from the earliest stages
of sub-project conception and regularly collect data on the selected indicators for all subprojects as soon as their
I/ Beneficiary Profile indicators can provide an indication of the Type 11 error in targeting (i.e., the extent to which unintended groups, for
example, the non-poor are benefiting from the program), but they cannot capture the Type I targeting error (i.e., the extent to which some poor
people are being missed).



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
2
implementation begins. However, it is possible, that for presently ongoing subprojects, the sponsoring agencies
might find it difficult to collect the required Outcome and Beneficiary Profile data since no system was put in place
for their collection when the subprojects began implementing. There might also be some sponsoring agencies who
simply lack the necessary technical capacity to routinely collect this information and to maintain systematic records.
In either case, the Projects and Planning Department will assume responsibility for the collection of this information
-- on a sample basis -- through SFD's Regional Offices with the assistance of the concerned sponsoring agency. For
Beneficiary Profile indicators, data will be collected by administering simple questionnaires to beneficiaries, and
staff from the SFD Regional Office will record the responses of the beneficiaries. Collecting data on Outcome
indicators will be more complex and in most cases it will be cost-effective to contract-out its collection to
specialized agencies possessing the necessary statistical capability. These agencies would be able to conduct control
group analysis in selected cases to separate the effect on outcomes of factors un-related to SFD. Where appropriate,
these agencies would also be able to undertake systematic Beneficiary Assessments and qualitative studies for
specific SFD subprojects.
12.     Four-tiered Sampling Methodology.   Data on the Approval and Disbursement indicators, and the
Operational Speed indicators will be collected for all SFD subprojects. The Outputs Delivered indicators will also
be collected for all SFD subprojects. With regard to Outcome and the Beneficiary Profile indicators, these
indicators will be collected by the sponsoring agencies for all subprojects, but, in cases where the sponsoring
agencies lack the capacity to do so, the Projects and Planning Department (or specialized agencies contracted by it)
will take on this responsibility and collect these data for a saanpl of SFD subprojects. The sample will be chosen
using a four-tiered sampling methodology as below.3
? Tier I The Projects and Planning Department will select a random sample4 of 30-50 percent5 of the sponsoring
agencies (stratified by type of sponsoring agency) for each of the three components to which at least 25 percent
of the allocated resources have been disbursed.
*   Tier 2  The Projects and Planning Department will then request each of the chosen sponsoring agencies to
provide a list of the Govemorates in which they are operating. From this list of Governorates, the Projects and
Planning Department will select randomly 20-30 percent' of the Governorates.
*   Tier 3  The Projects and Planning Department will request the sponsoring agency to provide a list of
subprojects supported in each of the selected Govemorates. From this list of subprojects, the Projects and
2
I For example, in the illiteracy prograw, the sponsoring agency could request the Beneficiary Characteristics data at the time of enrolling
the students.
3
/ It may be noted that monitoring Beneficiary Profile indicators may be less relevant in cases where SFD supervision missions to sub-
project sites confirm that the sponsoring agencies are delivering services in impoverished geographic locations, or that they are providing
services which are "basic" (e.g., adult literacy training) and which are, therefore, likely to be self-targeted to the poor. In the absence of
systematic recording and analysis of these factors during SFD supervision missions, monitoring Beneficiary Profile indicators will be useflul
even in these instances.
4
/ A standard statistical technique for choosing random samples will be used.
5
/ These percentages are indicative; an appropriate absolute number of observations should be chosen for the sample.
/ This tier of sampling is relevant in the case of the EDP component where SFD operations are listed by the sponsoring agencies, e.g.,
Banque du Caire instead of a listing of each of the subprojects financed by Banque du Caire. For components for which a list of each of the
subprojects is available, this tier would be omitted.
7
/ See footnote 5.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
Planning Department will select randomly 20-30 percent' of the subprojects. The SFD Regional Office with
the assistance of the sponsoring agency will collect the Outcome indicators for this sample of subprojects and
report them to the concerned SFD operational department.
* Tier 4 For the Beneficiary Profile indicators one more stage of sampling will be required; for the identified
sample of subprojects, the Projects and Planning Department will request a list of beneficiaries from the
sponsoring agency. From this list of beneficiaries, the Projects and Planning Department will select randomly
20-30 percent of the beneficiaries9. Again, the SFD Regional Office with the assistance of the sponsoring
agency will collect Beneficiary Profile data on the selected beneficiaries and report it to the concerned SFD
operational department.
13.    Format for the Projects and Planning Department's Database. Data on Outputs Delivered, Outcomes, and
Beneficiary Profile will be compiled by the Projects and Planning Department in a format that includes: name of
sub-project; acronym of the SFD component that the sub-project falls under; the type of beneficiaries to whom the
data pertains (e.g., in a public works program whether the beneficiary data relates to those who are employed on the
public works, or to those benefiting from the use of the infrastructure); month and year during which the data was
collected; month and year when this data is being reported; name of sponsoring agency; name of Governorate in
which the sub-project is operational; rural or urban coverage of the sub-project; sub-project start date; planned
sub-project completion date; and percentage of total sub-project allocation disbursed to date. The database should
allow producing separate print-outs by Component, by Governorate, by RuralUrban, or by Sponsoring Agency.
The database should also permit the production of print-outs for SFD-wide informnation, e.g., it should allow us to
answer questions such as what percentage of SFD beneficiaries are women, or, what percentage of SFD
beneficiaries are rural.
14.    Interpretation of the Data. The data collected in the above manner for the specified indicators will not be
combined into a single index, but rather the information will be used as a matrix that provides an overview of the
different aspects of SFD's performance. Data on the different indicators in the matrix will not, by itself, enable us to
arrive at firm conclusions about project performance; such data can only point to areas that need further
examination and it should be examined in the light of the goals of the intervention and the location-specific
conditions.
15.    An evaluation of the monitoring system will be undertaken to ensure effective implementation and allow
the system to evolve and reflect the changing environment.
S
/ See footnote 5.
9
/ See footnote 5.



ANNEX 8: PARTICIPATION AND TARGETING
Participation
1.     In addition to creating employment and delivering social services through a demand driven approach, the
Egypt Social Fund for Development (SFD) has been successful in fostering a participatory approach to sub-project
design, implementation and evaluation. SFD has also created complementary relationships between the objectives
of the fund and those of line agencies and the final beneficiaries. This in turn has catalyzed beneficiary participation
in decision making and unleashed the latent energy of people, leading to a more sustainable development approach
in comparison with the more traditional project approach.  Specifically, the involvement of beneficiaries in
consultation, cost sharing and decision making has improved the outcomes of sub-projects by: (a) ensuring that sub-
projects are relevant to beneficiary needs; and (b) generating commitment to sustaining project activities.
2.      Beneficiary participation strategies are imperative to ensure the sustainability of the a large number of
dispersed sub-projects. These include: (i) transferring participatory approaches to government agencies and
intermediaries; (ii) decentralizing management; (iii) sharing information with stakeholders; (vi) training staff in
participatory approaches; and (v) training beneficiaries. Each approach is discussed in detail below.
(a)     Transferring Participatory Approaches to Government Agencies and Intermediaries. Incorporating
mechanisms to transfer the participatory elements to regular government ministries, as well as other sponsoring
agencies (i.e., NGOs) is being pursued by the fund. During Phase 11, SFD is planning a training program for
ministry staff in management information during sub-project appraisal and execution. Given the important role
delegated to NGOs/intermediaries, SFD has allocated resources for assessing and strengthening their capacities, in
terms of beneficiary representation and development effectiveness. NGOs are evaluated during appraisal of a sub-
project, on the basis of criteria which indicate where training might be required. In response to the training needs
required by NGOs, a one year pilot program is being initiated in six governorates to benefit twenty NGOs with the
goal of building their institutional capacity.
(b)     Decentralizing Management.  The existence of ten regional and six satellite' offices facilitates the
implementation of a participatory approach throughout the sub-project cycle by allowing for close community
consultation. This has fostered a collaborative decision making process and forged links between community
organizations engaged in joint development activities.
(c)     Sharing Information with Stakeholders. The SFD employs a variety of mechanisms and strategies aimed at
fostering a participatory dialogue, which include information sharing and consultative sessions and workshops with
stakeholders (governorates, NGOs, and communities) during the promotion, and appraisal stages. In addition, these
efforts are complemented by beneficiary assessment, sub-project ex-post evaluations, and participatory rural
appraisal methods designed to evaluate and constantly improve project design in order to target the intended
beneficiaries more precisely, involve them in the sub-project cycle, and define the characteristics of the least
advantaged groups.
(d)     Training Staff in Participatory Approaches.  Involving staff (NGOs, and religious leaders) who have
worked with beneficiaries, has demonstrated success in designing and implementing sub-projects. Familiarity with
the cultural milieu, ability to communicate with the poor are assets which allow the fund to operate more
effectively. Fund staff receive training in participatory intervention methods in order to enable them to become
more responsive to the needs of the beneficiaries. During Phase 11 of the SFD, efforts should be made to introduce
an incentive structure that rewards staff for adhering to participatory procedures.
(e)     Training Beneficiaries In the case where beneficiaries do not have the requisite skills to prioritize, and/or
prepare proposals and/or technical designs, SFD provides technical assistance to help beneficiary groups prepare
The number of regional and satellite offices is not expected to increase over the life of the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
proposals and carry out technical design. In such instances extensive training and institutional strengthening
programs are provided to the stakeholders, with an emphasis on local planning, prioritization of needs, management,
monitoring, as well as operations and maintenance. This empowers beneficiaries to identify and prioritize their
needs to develop strategies to meet them.
Targeting
3.      Given it's mandate to mitigate the impact of economic adjustment on the poor and marginalized groups,
the SFD has fulfilled its aim at extensive coverage across the country. Priority target areas were selected based on a
targeting map prepared by SFD in 1992. The amounts of financing extended were weighed according to the relative
poverty rankings of each governorate. Data generated from the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and
Statistics (CAPMAS) has been used to occasionally supplement the original poverty map. Efforts are underway for
SFD to update it's poverty map and targeting mechanism in order to reflect the evolving nature of SFD, and the
current patterns of poverty in Egypt.
4.      Currently, SFD's geographic and sectoral resource allocations reflects both a demand and supply driven
nature.  It does not identify potential sub-projects but responds to proposals generated by beneficiaries or
intermediaries. Thus, those groups with the greatest ability to generate proposals are better positioned to benefit
from SFD funds, though typically they are not the neediest. SFD is attempting to reconcile the discrepancies
between demand and supply by streamlining targeting and promotion efforts in order to better respond to the poor.
During Phase I, SFD's activities focused on the disbursement of funds, and targeting was relegated to a secondary
role. Therefore, except for a recent pilot survey, limited data exists on SFD's targeting effectiveness. This situation
is quickly being revised, and staff at the fund are in the process of remedying this short-coming. Data on targeting
will be collected during promotional campaigns as well as desk and field appraisals using participatory approaches.
5.     Pilot Survey-Targeting. A recent pilot survey conducted in two Governorates (Minya and Beni Suef) to
assess the effectiveness of SFD's targeting mechanism was undertaken by the Project and Planning Department.
This was done to test some of the recommended Beneficiary Profile indicators in collaboration with the Community
Development Program and the Enterprise Development Program. Seven sub-projects (three in Beni-Suef and four
in Minya) out of 19 sub-projects were chosen based on the accessibility of sub-project sites. Varying numbers of
districts in which these sub-projects were operating were chosen for each sub-project. A sample of 5 percent of the
beneficiaries (100 percent of the beneficiaries, where the total number of beneficiaries was small) was chosen in
each selected district for each sub-project (amounting to a total sample of 903 beneficiaries). Beneficiary Profile
data were also collected for a sample of beneficiaries for two additional sub-projects (sample of 583 beneficiaries).
6.      The results of the CDP pilot highlighted that a large segment of beneficiaries in the literacy program in
Beni-Suef were women (54 percent); 68 percent of the beneficiaries of the Giza literacy program were illiterate and
the rest were drop-outs as opposed to 63 percent illiterate and 37 drop-outs. 42 percent of beneficiaries participating
in the Productive Families Project had assets of less than L.E.500 (US$150); and six of the 9 projects had
beneficiaries roughly of whom came from households with 7 or more members; and 20 percent of the beneficiaries
in the seven sub-project did not have access to sanitation facilities, indicating they were very poor.
7.      The methodology used for determining the beneficiaries from the Enterprise Development Program (EDP),
was taken from a total of 18 EDP sponsoring agencies that had been contracted and had received disbursements
from SFD. A sample of 8 agencies were chosen, A random sample of 10 percent of the loan recipients were
selected which amounted to 347 out of a total of 3480 loan recipients. The results indicated that in several
governorates, more than half the beneficiaries were women, and in other govemorates, most of the beneficiaries
were located in rural areas. In select cases, 33 percent of the beneficiaries had been unemployed prior to receiving
the EDP loan.
8.     The above information would require complementary data collected through BA, or a Needs and Capacity
Study. Nevertheless, in broad terms the results from the pilot indicated that specific SFD sub-projects are reaching
individuals who could be classified as "needy", suggesting that SFD's current targeting mechanism could be
achieving its intended beneficiaries.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
9.      Given the evolving nature of SFD, target groups will have to be redefined to guide the design of each of
SFD's components. The existing socio-economic data which focuses on the governorate level needs to be narrowed
to the district, village, or community level, thereby enabling SFD to concentrate resources on those specific
locations that have the highest poverty/unemployment rates.
10.    Priority Ranking. Assigning a three-layered targeting and ranking methodology for the selection of sub-
projects for financing by SFD is being explored. This methodology used in other social funds, assigns priority ranks
of 1, 2 etc.. to: (a) intended target groups; (b) different types of sub-projects; and (c) the Governorates. The target
group rank would be regarded as the overriding rank; if two sub-projects had the same target group rank, the rank
for the sub-project type would determine which sub-project is chosen for financing. It two sub-projects had the
same target group rank and the same sub-project type rank, the rank for the governorate would determine the choice
of the sub-project for financing. The objective of the ranking exercise is to learn how the fund is doing in meeting
community needs. In addition to the above recommendation, it is imperative for SFD to apply targeting criteria
throughout the sub-project cycle, starting with promotion through implementation and supervision. During each
stage, using participatory methods for collecting data will also allow for a diagnostic self-assessment.



ANNEX 9: DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES
Components Project Cost Summary
%       % Total
(L.E. Million)                 (US$ Million)    Foreign     Base
Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
Small-scale Labor Intensive Works    312.8         -        312.8      92.0         -     92.0           -       12
Community Development                707.2         -       707.2    208.0          -    208.0            -       27
Enterprise Development              1,203.6        -      1,203.6    354.0         -    354.0            -       46
Human Resources Development          204.8      67.2        272.0     60.2       19.8     80.0         25        10
Institutional Development            115.7      23.7        139.4     34.0       7.0      41.0         17         5
2,544.1     90.9      2,635.0    748.3      26.7    775.0           3       100
Physical Contingencies                   -         -            -         -        -         -          -
Price Contingencies                                           -                     -                   -
2,544.1     90.9      2,635.0    748.3      26 7     775.0          3       100
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%         %%Total
(L.E. Million)                 (US$ Million)        Foreign       Base
Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign    Total       Exchange        Costs
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                   321.0         -       321.0      94.4         -       94.4               -        12
Equipment                     270.7       2.4       273.0      79.6       0.7       80.3               1        10
Credit Funds                 1,129.9        -      1,129.9    332.3         -      332.3                -       43
Technical Assistance          239.4      37.6       276.9      70.4      11.1       81.5              14        11
Training                      489.0      50.9       540.0    143.8       15.0      158.8               9        20
Total Investment Costs         2,449.9     90.9      2,540.8    720.6      26.7      747.3               4        96
II. Recurrent Costs
Salaries                       77.0         -        77.0      22.6         -       22.6               -         3
Operations & Maintenance        17.3        -         17.3      5.1         -        5.1                -         1
Total Recurrent Costs             94.2        -         94.2     27.7         -       27.7                -        4
2,544.1     90.9      2,635 0    748.3      26.7     775.0                3       100
Expenditure Accounts by Components (US$ million)
Small-scale Labor  Community    Enterprise    Human Resources   Institutional
Intensive Works   Development  Development    Development    Development   Total
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                           73.6         20.8              -                  -              -      94.4
Equipment                             13.8         62.4              -                  -            4.1      80.3
Credit Funds                             -         20.8          311.5                  -              -    332.3
Technical Assistance                   0.9          6.2           21.2               26.4           26.7      81.5
Training                               0.9         72.8           21.2               53.6           10.3    158.8
Total Investment Costs                 89.2        183.0          354.0               80.0           41.0    747.3
II. Recurrent Costs
Salaries                               1.8         20.8              -                  -              -      22.6
Operations & Maintenance               0.9          4.2              -                  -              -       5.1
Total Recurrent Costs                   2.8         25.0              -                  -              -      27.7
92.0        208.0          354.0               80.0           41.0    775.0
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                         -            -              -               19.8            7.0      26.7



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
IBRD 27482
280                                320                                360,
Mediterraneon  Sea a                                                                       320
Marsa Matruh 0                Aiexondria:    Phe,tsaid                           KAtL    JORDAN
sh.ih I                                             ORDA
)                                             Damanhur anta rEI zxrt  
Shibin el Koni  V  -' lsmo,liya!
-.           QS~~~osez                I
CAIRd
|                                   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El Fayoumu     .j 
ffj       A  R A    B    R  E  P U  B  L I C                1;CiSuef                                       SAUD
OF  EGYPT                      EIMinyao(                                                 SAUDI
- 280 j      _  _-- _  _- _  _  _  _  _  _   .    _  _  _  _ _  _ARABIA  28
I                                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'
0
,Asiut               Hurghoda
Sohog
0      SELECTED CITIES                                 oQena
|  *   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  Luxor
RIVERS                                  Mataan0 /
CULTIVATED AREAS
-  -  -   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES                                 Kom Ombo
240a                                                                             Asw-an                               240
Dom
0      50     100    150 MILES
II I , t
0   50  100 150 KILOMETERS
-f             - - ---  -  --    - --_  -   -   -    -  -    -   -    -   -   -- _   -  -    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -_     - -    -  -    - - -
| rh boundaries. colors. d.rnssminotons nnd coy of her ,o!rsnooon
1 's,o,,fson du m-p do not-py, oo te prt of The World Baor             SUDAN
*  Group. any oudgrrert or, the legol trtotJ of any serotory, or any32
eodorseset or Ooceptn-e of such bo-nd,es                         32                                      36
MARCH 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15267 EGT
Type: SAR



