Page  1
                                                   Conformed Copy
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2865 EGT
                    Development Credit Agreement
                    (Second Social Fund Project)
                               between
                       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated July 1, 1996
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2865 EGT
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1996, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Social Fund for
Development (SFD), established and operating under the Laws of the
Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SFD the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SFD;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 of Article III is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 of Article V is
modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
            wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country which
            is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
            import of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
            ledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
            the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SFD, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SFD pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement;
      (c)   "Statutes" means Presidential Decree No. 40 of 1991
pertaining to the establishment and operation of SFD, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of operational
policy approved by the Board of Directors of SFD on June 17, 1992, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by
SFD out of the proceeds of the Credit for a Sub-project under Part B
(1) of the Project;
      (f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
SFD, through a commercial bank or a non-governmental organization,
for a Sub-project under Part B (2) of the Project;
      (g)   "Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out
under Part B of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant or
a Sub-loan; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty
two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR82,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
Page  3
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
amounts to be paid) by SFD on account of withdrawals made under Sub-
grants and Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Sub-projects in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central
Bank of Egypt on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower and SFD of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(+ of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July
15, 2006, and ending January 15, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 15, 2016, shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1,%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2+%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
Page  4
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. SFD is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
      Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its
Ministry of Finance for the purposes of handling, on behalf of the
Borrower, debt service payments with respect of the Credit.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project;
                    Use of Proceeds of the Credit
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause SFD to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of SFD therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SFD to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make available on a grant basis the
proceeds of the Credit to SFD under a subsidiary grant agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SFD under terms and con-
ditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of Article IX of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out by SFD pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)   cause to be maintained in accordance with sound
                  accounting practices, records and accounts reflect-
                  ing such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year
                  after the Association has received the audit report
                  for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   cause the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   cause to be furnished to the Association as soon
                  as available, but in any case not later than six
                  (6) months after the end of each such year the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the state-
                  ments of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
          (iii)   cause to be furnished to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of Article VI of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   SFD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that SFD will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Statutes or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of SFD
or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SFD or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of Article VII of
the General Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
Page  6
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower and SFD; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of Article XII of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been
entered into by the Borrower and SFD respectively.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of Article XII of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SFD and is legally binding upon SFD in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower
and SFD in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of Article XII of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and International Cooperation or
the First Undersecretary for International Finance of the Ministry
of Economy and International Cooperation of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of Article XI of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of Article XI of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy and International Cooperation
            (International Finance Sector)
            8 Adly Street
            Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
            Cable address:                 Telex:
            Ministry of Economy and        927-23348
            International Cooperation
            Cairo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or
                   Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
Page  7
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                        By /s/ Nawal El-Tatawy
                                          Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                            Regional Vice President
                                       Middle East and North Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account to finance 100% of payments made by SFD on account of Sub-
grants and Sub-loans.
2..   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments by SFD prior to the date
of this Agreement.
3.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for payments made
by SFD on account of Sub-grants and Sub-loans, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the manage-
ment and functions of SFD; and (ii) assist in financing such community
based programs and activities and entrepreneurial micro and small
enterprise development as will contribute to the expansion of employment
and raising of incomes.
Part A:
      A program to strengthen, through the provision of technical
assistance, studies and surveys, the management and functions of SFD.
Part B:
      (1)   The provision of grants for the carrying out, by regional
authorities, local communities and non-governmental organizations, of
specific projects to develop community infrastructure, improve popula-
tion health and literacy, and support employers' initiated workers
training programs.
      (2)   The provision of loans: (a) through commercial banks, for
the carrying out, by individual entrepreneurs, of specific projects to
establish and expand small enterprises with employment capacity of
between five and 100 employees; and (b) through non-governmental
organizations, for the carrying out by individual entrepreneurs, of
specific projects to establish micro enterprises with employment
capacity of not more than five employees.
Page  8
                            *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of amounts paid by SFD on account of  Sub-grants and Sub-loans
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of Article V
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of $24,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
                  ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
                  in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                  the basis of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                  Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
                  for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
Page  9
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of Article VI of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of Article V of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Asso-
ciation shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
