Page  1
                                                     Conformed Copy
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2865 EGT
                          Project Agreement
                    (Second Social Fund Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                     SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated July 1, 1996
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2865 EGT
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1996, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIAL FUND FOR
DEVELOPMENT (SFD).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty one million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR81,300,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that SFD agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
      (B)   by a subsidiary grant agreement (the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and SFD, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to SFD on terms and conditions
set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
      WHEREAS SFD, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Operations Manual" means SFD's manual, agreed with
the Association, for the carrying out of the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Association; and
      (b)   "Business Plan" means the plan, agreed with the
Association, for achieving long-term sustainability of SFD's
enterprise development programs, as the same may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Association.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project;
                  Management and Operations of SFD
      Section 2.01. (a) SFD declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and in accordance with its Statutes and Statement of Policy.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and SFD shall otherwise
agree, SFD shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) SFD shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of Article IX of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SFD shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and SFD a
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's
objectives; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with SFD on said plan.
      Section 2.04. SFD shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SFD shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) SFD shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   SFD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
Page  3
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by SFD of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
      Section 2.06. SFD shall:
      (a)   carry out the Business Plan with due diligence and
efficiency and at all times take all necessary action to achieve the
objectives thereof; and
      (b)   review with the Association, at such regular intervals
as the Association shall request, the carrying out of the same and
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
                             Article III
                    Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) SFD shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of
each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of SFD.
      (b)   SFD shall:
            (i)   have its (A) records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements), and (B)
                  administrative, technical and managerial per-
                  formance as measured on the basis of indicators
                  agreed with the Association, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available
                  but in any case not later than six (6) months
                  after the end of each such year, (A) certified
                  copies of its financial statements for such year
                  as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts, financial
                  statements and administrative, technical and
                  managerial performance, as well as the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02.SFD shall:
      (a)   by December 31, 1997, carry out, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, a
study identifying the measures required to ensure the proper
operations and maintenance of SFD's financed projects for the
development of community infrastructure and the improvement of
population health and literacy, including the Sub-projects under
Part B (1) of the Project; and
      (b)   based on the conclusions and recommendations of said
study and the Association's views on the matter, adopt and implement,
by June 30, 1998, all such policies and procedures as are sufficient
to ensure such proper operations and maintenance.
                             ARTICLE IV
                     Effective Date; Termination
Page  4
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SFD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                  shall terminate; or
           (ii)   a date twenty (20) years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SFD of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or
                   Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
      For SFD:
            Social Fund for Development
            Hussain Hegazy St.
            Cairo, Egypt
                                            Fax:
                                            3030891
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SFD or by SFD on behalf of the Borrower under
the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director, or by such other person or persons as said Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and SFD shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
Page  5
one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt,
as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                            Regional Vice President
                                       Middle East and North Africa
                        SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Hussein El Gammal
                                          Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
                       Implementation Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of
Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.    SFD shall: (a) maintain arrangements satisfactory to the
Association, for the overall coordination and supervision of Project
implementation; (b) employ consultants, with qualifications and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the
carrying out of the Project; (c) ensure that Sub-grants and Sub-loans
under Part B of the Project, including the arrangements for the making
of Sub-loans under Part B (2) (a) thereof through commercial banks and
under Part B (2) (b) thereof through non-governmental organizations,
shall be made in accordance with the requirements and other details
set forth in the Operations Manual; and (d) review with the Asso-
ciation, at such intervals as the Association or SFD shall request,
the Operations Manual, and, based on such reviews, update the same as
may be agreed between the Association and SFD.
2.    SFD shall: (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators agreed with the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and of each Sub-project, and the achievement of the objec-
tives thereof; (b) prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) by March 31 of
each year, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period of twelve (12) months preceding the date of such report;
and (ii) on or about December 31, 1998, a mid-term report, inte-
grating the data and other information contained in the reports
prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding
the date thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
the efficient carrying out of the Project during the period
following such date; and (c) review with the Association each such
report and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
such report and the Association's views on the matter.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  6
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5
of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    Community Participation
      Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equi-
valent, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less that $300,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equi-
valent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,300,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.    Procurement from UN Agencies
      Vehicles and computer goods may be procured from the United
Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization (IAPSO), in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for works and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Page  7
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
*issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms accept-
able to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Asso-
ciation review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection pro-
cedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
