Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9262
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1350-PAK)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
I:



ABBREVIATIONS
AMC         Advisory Management Committee
AV          Audio-Visual
DHS         Demographic and Health Survey
FP          Family Planning
FWA         Family Welfare Assistant
FWC         Family Welfare Centre
FWW         Family Welfare Worker
GOP         Government of Pakistan
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education and Communications
ILO         International Labour Organisation
MCH         Maternal and Child Health
NCO         Non-governmental Organization
ODA         Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PAC         Project Administration Cell
PC-l        Planning Commission (form) 1
PCR         Project Completion Report
PWD         Population Welfare Division
PWTI        Population Welfare Training Institute
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
TGI         Target Group Institutions
UNFPA       United Nations Population Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Pakistan : July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffKe of DOrectw-Gfeneral
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Population Proiect (Credit 1350-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitlec
"Project Completion Report on Pakistan: Population Project (Credit
1350-PAK)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1350-PAK)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ............... ...............................           i
Evaluation Summary .................................              iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                 2
Project Design and Organization .2
Project Implementation
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up         4
Critical Variances.                               4
Factors Affecting Project Implementation          5
Project Risks.                                    5
Disbursements.                                    6
Procurement.                                      6
Consultants.                                      6
Project Results.                                    6
Project Sustainability.                              7
IDA and Borrower Performance.                        7
Lessons Learned.                                     8
Project Documentation and Data.                      9
PART II      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General Comments.                                    9
Performance .11
Bank-Borrower Relationship .14
Adequacy of Detailed Information
in Report .14
Conclusions .15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IBRD Loans and IDA Credits  ....              ......    16
Project Timetable  ........           ...................    16
Credit Disbursements  .......            .................    17
Project Implementation  ......             ................    18
Project Financing  ........           ...................    22
Project Cost  ...........          .....................    23
Proiect Results
Direct Benefits  ........           ...................    24
Studies  ..............        .....................    26
Covenants  ..............         .....................    27
Use of IDA Resources
Staff Inputs  .........          .....................    30
Missions .      ..................................    31
ANNEXES
Annex 1.   Detailed Project Features  ....               ..........    32
Annex 2.   National Family Planning Performance                        38
Annex 3. National Teacher Enrollment for
Population Education Courses  ...... 41
Attachment 1.   ODA Comments on the PCR  .................... 42
Attachment 2.   USAID Comments on the PCR  .....                 ............. 43



DROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1350-PAK)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Population Project in
Pakistan, for which Credit 1350-PAK in the amount of US$18.0 million was approved
in April, 1983. The credit was closed on December 31, 1989, two years and nine
months behind schedule. Sixty percent of the credit was disbursed and the last
disbursement was made on January 12, 1990.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources Division
of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and   the Borrower (Part II).   Both cofinanciers
provided comments on the PCR (Attachments I and II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during IDA's final supervision mission
or the Project in June, 1989, and is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA
and the Borrower; and internal IDA rmiemoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1350-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.        .n November 1980, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) approved a new
Population Welfare Plan which focused on bringing about behavioral changes
favoring a small family norm.  The Plan gave priority to reducing population
growth through increasing con:raceptive use and decreasing the c:rude birth rate
and it was unusual in that it institutionalized the separation of 'health' and
'population' service delivery. The project was designed to assist key elements
of the Plan through, at the national level, its support for establishing and
implementing non-clinical training programs, establishing an information,
education and communication (IEC) organization, and expanding population
education in schools' and at the regional level, implementing a comprehensive
population package comprising family planning (FP), maternal and child health
and community development in Family Welfare Centers (FWCs) in 13 districts, and
establishing FP services in health outlets of several provincial departments and
public sector institutions.    Provision was  also made  to improve program
implementation. The project was financed by IDA, USAID, ODA and the Government.
ODA and USAID provided comments on Parts I and III (Attachments I and II). The
Borrower prepared Part II; where relevant, IDA's comments, identified as such,
have been incorporated mainly in Part I.
Implementation
2.        The project as summarized in the Staff Appraisal Report was not fully
implemented. Several factors were responsible for this, among the most critical
being the gradual erosion of political support (which was never high) for the
program stemming from a change to a more conservative and fundamentalist milieu;
a very limited number of technical and managerial staff stretched very thinly,
resulting in weak implementation; and a project design that was implemented
through 36 separate government project documents which created vertical barr-iers
within  and between  components.    Further,  by not  establishing  a Project
Administration Cell within the Population Welfare Division (PWD), the critical
tasks of progress chasing and coordination were only weakly undertaken, which
contributed substantially to the project never being fully institutionalized.
In terms of the larger project components, implementation was most disappointing
for the IEC and the FP through other departments/institutions components; the
best were probably the non-clinical training activities and parts of the FWC



- iv -
component. The project was originally planned to be implemented over four years
but was actually implemented over seven years. Sixty percent of the original
credit was disbursed.
Results
3.        The project achieved only limited success in both its institutional
development and FP objectives. Achievements in efforts to improve the program
implementation process were mixed. Institutional constraints were substantial
and their cumulative effect partly undermined the project design. Many project
activities were implemented late. However, achievements of the project include
the introduction and establishing of in-service non-clinical training; andi
increased IEC capability and awareness; and onhanced FP service delivery quality.
The project also helped demonstrate that women can staff and run small community
level clinics and provide quality care, often in very adverse circumstunces.
Sustainability
4.        The project formed part of the regular government funding of the
population program. Most of the project activities are expected to continue in
the future. However, a recent development is that the current fiscal squeeze
has affected the population program badly and across-the-board cuts are likely
both in project supported components and elsewhere. Donor financed support for
the program continues to be considerable, and it is probable that various donors
will take over financing selected project activities.
Findings and Lessons
5.        In retrospect, and apart from operational points, two lessons can be
learned from the project that have broader applicability for IDA operations in
this sector in Pakistan. First, sustained political support is crucial for a
population operation to be successful in a difficult socio-cultural environment
such as existed in Pakistan.   Second, projects should be firmly grounded in
recent sector work completed before project preparation work.   Such analyses
not only help identify the issues and problems the sector faces and which the
project will address, but also 3nhances the quality of dialogue between the
borrower and lender.   In this instance,  sector work including a thorough
institutional assessment may have helped to identify a different project design
and a different operational approach, perhaps reflecting more accurately the
administrative and technical constraints of PWD.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1350-PAK)
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
- Project Name         Population Project
- Credit Number        1350-PAK
- RVr Unit             Europe, Middle East and North Africa,
Country Department I
- Country              Pakistan
- Sector               Population
- Financing            IDA, USAID, ODA, Government of Pakistan
B. Background
1.          Pakistan was one of the first developing countries to recognize the
problem of rapid population growth anc in 1960 introduced an official program
intended to lower fertility. All population programs in Pakistan have operated
in a society where factors associated with high fertility rates, such as high
illiteracy, poverty, few opportunities for women's development, and prestige
associated with a large number of sons, have coexisted and reinforced one
another. In addition to this difficult environment, the implementation of the
program between 1960 and 1977 was fraught with problems. These included frequent
interruptions and changes in program direction, a low level of political
commitment, and indifference or frequently overt resistance to family planning,
compounded by administrative weaknesses such as a lack of operational plans,
inadequate training and supervision.  As was common in many countries at the
time, family planning services were typically offered in isolation from other
health services. Evaluations of program activities concluded that their impact
on birth rates had been minimal.
2.          Project Setting.   In 1980, after three years when the program
virtually stopped, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) decided to transfer the
Ministry of Health's Population Division to the Ministry of Planning and
Development  and rename  it the Population Welfare Division  (PWD).   PWD's
responsibilities were widened to include population policy making, planning and
coordination.  Drawing on past experience, a new Population Welfare Plan was
formulated and approved by the Cabinet in November 1980. The Plan focused on
behavioral changes favoring a "small family" norm, working within an acceptable
socio-cultural framework. The approach was multisectoral, and called for the
aci:ive participation of both public and private sectors and emphasized community
involvement. The Plan also recognized the importance of, and promoted support
for, improvements in such areas as (female) education, women's functional
literacy and the conditions of women and their participation in productive labor.
3.          Within this framework, priority was to be accorded during 1981-84
ro:  (a) increasing the percentage of current contraceptive users from 6% to
14%; P"d (b) decreasing the crude birth rate from approximately 42 per 1,000 to
37.,. With a concurrent anticipated decrease in the crude death rate from 13



- 2 -
per 1,000 to 10.5, the natural increase rate was expected to decline by 0.2
points.
C. Project Obiectives and Description
4,          The main objective of ttie project was to support the implementation
ot major aspects of the 1980 Population Plan.   It wa.s to assist in:   (a)
accomplishing the transition from a single purpose family planning program to
a multisectoral and community oriented population welfare program; (b)
strengthening the organizational structure of the population program by
establishing and reorganizing units for (i) program training, (ii) information,
education and communication (IEC), and (iii) population education; and (c)
improving the program implementation process by developing detailed operational
plans with clear objectives, using these plans for supervision and monitoring,
and improving staff quality through training. An additional objective, within
project districts, was a reduction of three points in the crude birth rate by
1987.
5.          The project comprised the following components (see details in Annex
I): at the national level - (a) establishing and implementing training programs,
(b) establishing an IEC organization, and (c) expanding the population education
program; at the regional level - (a) implementing a comprehensive population
package  comprising  Famaily  Planning  (FP)/Maternal  and         Child  Health
(MCH)/community development in Family Welfare Centres (FWCs) in 13 districts
(covering 20 million people), and (b) establishing FP services in health outlets
of several provincial government departments and public institutions.  Provision
was also made to improve program   .Dlementation by developing better planning,
monitoring and supervision procedures and carrying out evaluation studies as well
as small-scale experimental programs.
D. Project Design and Organization
6.          The project was particularly timely given GOP's renewed emphasis on
fertility reduction and FP demand creation through an integrated approach. The
aim of the project to provide fundamental inputs, with the objective of
institutionalizing and operationalizing the new program, was appropriate and
came at a key time as the program struggled to re-establish and reorient itself.
The concepts of the Plan and project were coincident. The main considerations
in deciding on project composition, as reported in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), were: (a) the acceptance of the new program strategy as a sound approach
and of the Population Plan as a viable means for reviving population efforts in
Pakistan; (b) the need to select inputs that would complement other donors'
inputs (mainly UNFPA and USAID); (c) the avoidance of overambitious designs that
would overtax a recently restructured system with traditionally low implementing
capacity; and (d) the need to improve the implementing process.
7.          At the national level, the project supported two of the five "core"
sub-programs of the Plan -- IEC and non-clinical training, while UNFPA assisted
two others -- reproductive health services and clinical training.   At the
regional level, the project assisted the fifth "core" sub-program, in 13
districts, to test the concept that community involvement and good quality MCH
services, combined with educational programs and FP services, can change
attitudes towards family size and family health. The regional component also
supported two key multi-sectoral activities:   introduction of FP services in



- 3 -
health facilities of other government departments and in target group
institutions. The various components supported by the financing agencies are
summarized in Part III, Table 5.
8.          Se-eral aspects of the project were innovative:  (a) the concept of
FWCs as multipurpose, directed towards overall social development rather than
exclusively t  family planning, and including active participation from the
community and other departmenits; (b) the separation of non-clinical training,
with its emphasis on motivation and education, from traditional medical/health
training; (c) introducing such training through special institutions (Population
Welfare Training Institutes (PWTIs)) to institutionalize non-clinical in-service
training; and (d) seeking to introduce FP services into all existing public
health service facilities including those of large public institutions.
9.          To assist with project execution, a detailed implementation volume
was prepared for use by federal and provincial staff.  Those responsible for
coordination and implementation of each sub-component were clearly identified.
However, at the federal and provincial level in PWD, the project per se was
never assimilated; in the districts and outside PWD, there was little
understanding or appreciation of the project.
10.         The institutional framework that the project was designed to support
never became fully .perational, and this precluded the project from achieving
its objectives. While the project design supported some of the most critical -
- and weakest - - Plan components, particularly the IEC and non-clinical training
activities, it failed to address some of the issues that had plagued earlier
programs and which continued through into this Plan. The design and preparatory
work did not, in retrospect, take sufficient account of the government
institutional constraints -- such as the rigidities of the project document (PC-
1) system', the long-term implications for the projeet of government attempts to
reduce staff numbers, the difficulties of recruiting technical staff and
consultants, the uniqueness of PWD's federal/provincial responsibility split and
its financial and administrative implications-- all of which combined to
undermine the project design. The result was a weak organizational response to
project start-up which continued throughout implementation.   The failure to
appoint a Project Administration Cell (PAC) compounded these problems. Given
the history of the program, IDA was also over-optimistic in assuming that the
necessary institutional framework to support the new Plan would be in place and
operational within two years. In short, although the project scope, scale and
objectives were consistent, and despite attempts during preparation to simplify
inputs, experience showed that the design was too ambitious.
11.         A key design and policy question is whether the project was correct
in supporting the new Plan, given that it included the rather unusual aspect of
institutionalizing the separation of 'health' and 'population' service delivery.
Justification for this separation was based on the wide social development
approach adopted, which built on community initiative and was based around MCH/FP
services offered by FWCs. In the cultural and political circumstances, such an
All government development projects require to be approved in the form
of a PC-l. This is a detailed document and includes objectives, inputs,
budgets, etc. Both the initial approval process and that for changes are
lengthy.



- 4 -
approach was seen as an important route to effective FP demand creation. The
difficulties of this point were well recognized during project development and
the pragmatic conclusion appeared to be that, whatever the pros and cons, there
was no possibility of changing government policy. Thus, if IbA wished to support
the population sector, there was no alternative. By including the provincial
line departments in its regional component, the project design supported the
widening of the availability of FP services. The separation has continued while
the widened scope of FP services has not yet materialized.   There is some
evidence that the IDA project has contributed to legitimizing this separation.
E. Project Implementation
12.         Credit effectiveness and project start-up.  The credit was approved
in April 1983, but both project effectiveness and start-up were delayed. The
project was not declared effective until December 1983 because of (a) delays in
the approval of PC-ls; (b) delays in obtaining provincial agreements on program
and project organization stemming from GOP's decision in April l183 to
provincialize field activities; and (c) IDA's difficulties in deciding how to
handle this problem and the ultimate decision to await official provincial
agreements on the proposed organizational structures. Delays in project start-
up resulted particularly from legal proceeuings initiated by PWD workers (mostly
motivators)  dismissed during the 1981 re-organization.   The Supreme Court
prohibited any staff hiring by PWD until mid-1984.  Much of the project thus
started two years later than originally envisaged and project implementation
required two extensions of the closing date to allow sufficient time for ftill
implementation and adequate utilization of funds: the first from June 30, 1986
to March 31, 1988 and the second from March 31, 1988 to June 30, 1989.
13.         Critical variances.   The project as conceived ir. the SAR was not
fully implemented.   Several factors were responsible for this:   (a) gradual
erosion of political support (which was never high) for the program stemming
from a change to a more conservative and fundamentalist socio-cultural milieu;
(b) staff responsible for project execution and implementation were not the same
as those instrumental in designing the project and some staff never fully
comprehended its objectives and purpose - - this was compounded by frequent senior
staff changes; (c) a limited number of trained and capable technical and
managerial staff stretched very thinly, resulting in weak implementation -- a
particular problem was the appointment of non-specialists to technical positions;
(d) the defederalizing of field activities; and (e) a project design that was
implemented through 36 separate PC-ls, thereby creating vertical barriers between
and within components.
14.         IDA could not have affected the first two factors.  In the third
instance, although systematic efforts were made by the Bank to encourage PWD to
address the staffing problem, the issue was never resolved -- civil service
rules constrained PWD's flexibility considerably.   Attempts by missions to
encourage PWD to appoint qualified technicians were regarded as interference
and precipitated a deterioration in IDA/PWD relations.   Professional staff
development was weak and poorly organized. The appointment of consultants was
a continuing problem and in one instance -- the non-appointment of a consultant
for IEC materials design and production -- PWD was in default of a legal
covenant. IDA was reluctant to push to the limit on this covenant (or elsewhere)
because it viewed its presence in the population sector as critical to Pakistan's
wider development efforts. Turning to defederalization, which was introduced



- 5 -
just before project effectiveness, IDA expressed some concern about the retention
of financial control, planning and training as federal responsibilities while
making implementation a provincial responsibility.   (Such an arrangement is
probably unique in Pakistan.) IDA never appreciated the full consequences of
these arrangements, one aspect of which was that the provinces did not develop
any sense of ownership of the program.   The effects of the lack of clear
planning, management and budgeting procedures within the federal/provincial
organizational structure only became evident during project implementation. As
to PC-is, IDA should have been cognizant of the implementation problems that
would result from the large number of PC-ls, particularly given similar
experiences in other sectors.
15.         Factors affecting project implementation.   The implementation of
the regional component and its outcome were affected adversely by the limited
collaboration   and   consultation   between   PWD   and   other   government
ministries/departments,  particularly Health,  and NGOs.2   As a result,  the
tremendous potential for utilizing existing facilities and activities to extend
the reach of FP was not capitalized upon.   The multisectoral approach was
operational only in FWCs and even this was not widely accepted; major reasons
included insufficient IEC support, emphasis on FP service delivery activities,
limited political and administrative back-up, training curricula gaps and delays,
and over-estimated ease of community mobilization.
16.         Three key actions required by IDA, but never taken by PWD, had an
adverse effect on implementation. Fizst, not hiring a consultant to advise on
operationalizing the IEC component, especially since PWD had almost no qualified
technical staff in this area.   Second, not familiarizing the provincial and
district staff sufficiently , particularly the newly appointed staff, about the
project through workshops and distribution of documents such as the SAR and the
implementation volume.3 Finally, not setting up a PAC as specified in the SAR.
This absence of a PAC meant that the PAC's tasks were performed weakly by the
regular directorates and that there was little chance of a firm horizontal link
between  the  project  components  being  established.    Another  result  was
coordination difficulties between the PWD federal directorates and the provincial
population departments.   Consideration was given by IDA in late 1984 to
cancelling the project due to the continuing implementation delays; however,
IDA's management decided that it should be continued.
17.         Project Risks.   Administrative weaknesses and opposition to the
program, the main risks identified in the SAR, persisted during the life of the
project.    To minimize  these  risks,  the  project  included  administrative
strengthening through training, a new management approach and close monitoring
of the management process. The management related inputs were mainly embedded
in the various project components and their implementation was often given low
priority. Moreover, the two management audits, one baseline and one mid-project,
2    IDA Comment:  The text has been amended to reflect the Borrower's comment
in para. 36. However, the health initiatives discussed in para. 37 had
no impact on the implementation of IDA's project.
IDA Comment:  Although the Borrower states in para. 39 that the SAR and
Implementation volumes were distributed, almost all staff interviewed, at
all levels, by later IDA missions were unaware of the documents.



- 6-
which would have provided critical information on management development and
enable diagnosis and corrections, were not undertaken on schedule (see Part III,
Table 8). The strategy of increasing the program's acceptability by changing
its image to one perceived as serving wider social needs never fully
materialized. The IEC component, which was required to provide communication
support, was virtually absent during the critical early phase of program
transition.   Momentum was not gained later largely because of the severe
constraints put on program publicity due to the perceived sensitive nature of
the subject. This notwithstanding, there was no significant public criticism
of the program or project during implementation.   Paradoxically, the limited
political support for the program at the start slowly ebbed away.
18.         Disbursements were slower than anticipated in the SAR.  Delays in
the initial approval of PC-ls and of re-submissions; subsequent further and
continuing delays in the release of funds from the federal level to PWD
directorates and the provinces; inclusion of items in the SAR that were not in
the approved PC-is; PC-ls not running for the entire project period; cuts in
the annual development plan; the delayed start of the project; and the
substantial depreciation of the Pakistan rupee, compounded by the implementation
problems discussed above, resulted in low levels of disbursement. Despite two
extensions of the closing date and some increase in the proportion of
expenditures reimbursed, only 60% of the credit was actually disbursed; the
remaining 6.7 million SDR was cancelled. Most of the credit was used to finance
operating costs. Details are provided in Part III, Tables 5 and 6. The complex
financing arrangements resulted in a large number of annual audit reports being
produced, often one for each component. Thus, one year's audit report typically
comprised twelve or more individual reports; delays were therefore common.
19.         Procurement. No significant problems arose during local procurement.
The co-financing agencies met much of the requirement for imported equipment and
supplies (e.g. USAID supplied contraceptives and ODA the audio-visual and
transport vans).    Only one  international  contract under the credit,  for
communication and printing equipment, was let. This was delayed by disagreements
between PWD and IDA on specifications, quantities and procedures and became a
long-standing source of friction.
20.         Consultants.  The project received critical inputs from consultants
both during project preparation (financed from a Project Preparation Facility)
and during ear'y project implementation. However, GOP was increasingly reluctant
to use consultants, especially credit-financed, during implementation (the two
international consultants recruited during implementation, for trai.ning and IEC,
were paid from ODA project grant funds). Only a small fraction of the 240 months
of local consultant services and about half (all during project preparation) of
the 52 months of foreign consultant services financed by the credit were used.
F. Project Results
21.         The project achieved only limited success in both its institutional
development and family planning performance objectives. The transition from a
single purpose family planning program to a multi-sectoral and community oriented
population welfare program was never completed for the reasons discussed above.
The project contributed to strengthening some parts of the organizational
structure of the population program but failed elsewhere.   The poRulation
education component was successful in the early stages of project implementation.



- 7 -
Thereafter the momentum decreased substantially in part because Lhe PC-1 for the
period 1986-88 was not approved until August 1987 and funds were not released
until November 1987, 17 months later. The IEC comDonent, intended as a major
support for the new Population Plan, was never institutionalized partly due to
extended delays in establishing an appropriate staffed and organized structure.
Hence, activities essential for implementing a national IEC program were never
initiated, or initiated too late to provide support to other components. The
results from the non-clinical training component were more positive.   The
training system at thq provincial and district levels provided adequate technical
resources, but suffered inter alia from the lack of IEC support. Although the
PWTIs are potentially capable and effective institutions, further technical
assistance and financial support will be necessary to transform them into a major
resource for the program. Finally, efforts to improve the implementation Drocess
were only partially successful. They were hampered by the slow release of funds
and delays in the training program, which prevented activities from proceeding
on schedule.   Planning and monitoring capabilities have increased but still
remain limited.
22.         Project Benefits. Deciding whether the project achieved its ultimate
benefits of improved family planning and MCH practices will have to await the
execution of the much delayed Demographic and Health Survey (Part III, Table 8).
However, while service statistics (Annex II, Tables Al-A3) show increases of
typically over 100% in contraceptives distributed during the period 1983-84 to
1987-88, the government's (ambitious) targets were not achieved. Contraceptive
prevalence remained low and was estimated by PWD to have only risen from 9% in
1984 to about 13% in June 1988.  The 1988 figure is too low to have any real
demographic impact. Information on project districts is incomplete but suggests
that their performance improved at about the national rate. The project had an
unexpected benefit, with significant implications for the health sector, in that
it demonstrated that women can staff and run small community level clinics and
provide quality care, often in very adverse circumstances.
G. Proiect Sustainability
23.         The population program continues to be entirely budgeted from the
federal Annual Development Programme.   The project funding was part of this
process. Provision to continue many of the project activities is included in
current forward budgets; additional recurrent costs arising directly from the
project were modest, although the project financed substantial amounts of
recurrent costs.   However, a recent development is that the current fiscal
squeeze has affected the overall population budget badly and across-the-board
cuts are likely -- both in project supported components and elsewhere.  This
uncertain fiscal foundation is exacerbated by the lack of substantial cost
recovery prospects for the program, and the lack of visible expanding demand
which would have stimulated funding for a much needed service. Donor support
for the program has been substantial, typically over half of total costs. It
is probable that other donors, including ODA, USAID and UNFPA, will take over
financing selected project activities, especially for training, IEC, monitoring
and evaluatir,n and some FWC costs. The net result of the financial constraints
has been the virtual elimination of all program development efforts.



- 8-
H. Bank and Borrower Performance
24.         IDA's performance from project identification to completion is
considered generally satisfactory. The technical aspects of project development
work was thorough and detailed, and many of the relevant issues were identified
at appraisal; the project was fully within GOP's new population strategy. The
appropriate covenants to execute the project were included in the Development
Credit Agreement, of which one (Covenant 3.02 concerning the IEC consultant) was
unfulfilled at credit closing.
25.         Between project effectiveness and completion eight supervision
missions were fielded including the PCR mission.   Missions were undertaken
regularly during early implementation. There was a decline in frequency during
the latter part of project implementation (see Part III, Table 11), which was
offset by informal supervision carried out by IDA staff while undertaking other
operational work in Pakistan. From 1986 onwards there were repeated changes of
responsible headquarters staff and often no commonality of membership on
successive supervision missions. The utility of supervision missions was thus
much reduced and informal complaints were made by PWD.   Consistency of
involvement by Resident Mission (RMP) staff was maintained, although they were
not population experts.
26.         Part III, Table 9 summarizes the Borrower's performance, which has
been partly discussed above. Since this was the first project in the population
sector in Pakistan, the expected administrative difficulties were experienced
during the early phase of project implementation.  To a lesser extent, these
continued throughout project implementation and cumulatively were a major cause
of project implementation delays. Implementation also suffered from a lack of
coordination, inadequate technical guidance, and weak linkages with provincial
government departments and local bodies. A rapidly changing social climate and
faltering political support for population activities further constrained the
Borrower's ability to deal effectively with the project.
27.         The net effect of these limitations, on both IDA's and the Borrower's
parts, was a gradual but steady erosion in their relationship.   Increasing
frustration in IDA at slow project implementation led to attempts to expedite
progress through detailed work programs prepared jointly with PWD. This was seen
as interference by the executing agencies and resulted in reluctance to implement
such recommendations. This downward spiral, which affected PWD/RMP relations
also, continued slowly through most of the implementation period; in the last
year relations slowly improved.
I. Lessons Learned
28.         The lessons for implementation of future projects are discussed
above and include actions such as the establishment of the PAC; ensuring
continuity of IDA staff knowledgeable about the project on supervision missions;
and more intense supervision. These may have made a difference in final project
outcome and could also have relevance for cther sectors.   Apart from these
operational points, two other lessons that are applicable to future operations
in this sector in Pakistan are: firstly, sustained political support is crucial
for a population operation to be successful in a difficult socio-cultural milieu
such as currently exists.   As the limited political support for population
activities eroded, project implementers became more cautious and ministerial



- 9 -
clearances were required even for some routine activities. In such situations,
population project designs need to be more focused, less ambitious, and actively
and sympathetically supported by IDA staff familiar with the project.
29.         Secondly, such projects should be firmly grounded in recent sector
analysis completed before project preparation work. Population sector work was
conducted between 1975 and 1978, but the three year stoppage of activities and
the major new focus and organization of the Plan reduced its utility
substantially. Sector analyses not only help identify the issues and problems
that the sector faces and which the project will address but also enhances the
quality of dialogue between the borrower and lender. It would also have assisted
with obtaining a better identification of PWD's strengths and weaknesses. It
was necessary for IDA to respond promptly to GOP's urgent request to assist in
the development and execution of the new Population Welfare Plan. But, because
this was IDA's first operation in an obviously very difficult sector and with
a recently formed executing agency, there was a great need to proceed with the
maximum of preparation including a thorough institutional assessment. Sector
work may have helped identify a different project design and a different
operational approach, perhaps reflecting more accurately the administrative and
technical constraints of PWD.
J. Project Documentation and Data
30.         Original documentation for the project was good.  Both the SAR and
the  implementation  volume  provided  useful  and  detailed  guidance  for
implementation and evaluation by the executing agencies. Had the documents been
widely used, they would have greatly strengthened the institutional memory and
mitigated the effects of the PWD and IDA staff changes.
31.         Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Mission.  Meetings were held
between IDA and PWD several months prior to the PCR mission to discuss
contributions to the PCR. Most basic information required to complete Parts I
and III were readily made available to the mission.   Data availability and
quality are expected to be considerably enhanced following the completion of a
diagnostic study of PWD's information system.
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE4
GENERAL COMMENTS:
32.         The project was implemented at the national and regional levels
through four main components.   It envisaged firstly,  the establishment or
strengthening of 293 "amily Welfare Centres in 13 districts. This component also
4   This is the Borrower's unedited contribution.  The Borrower agreed to
prepare Part II by December 1989, and received Parts I and III on December
15, 1989. Part II represents the views and conclusions of the Borrower,
and should not be attributed to IDA or its affiliated organizations. A
number of the Borrower's comments marked in the margin with a verticle
line, are referred to in footnotes in Parts I and III and Annex I, and are
identified as "IDA Comments."



- 10 -
included Provincial Line Departments (PLDs) and Target Group Institutions (TGIs).
Secondly it sought to create an Information. Education and Communication (IEC)
organization which involved production and dissemination of publicity material
and greater use of Radio, Television and Press for education of the general
public.  The project was also designed to introduce r3pulation Education. in
educational institutions through strengthening the curricula at the secondary
and intermediate levels with the objective of reaching over two million students.
It was also planned to train teachers and familiarize students with the problems
arising from rapid population growth. Finally Non-Clinical Training was planned
to be improved and the Population Welfare Training Institutes strengthened by
developing curricula, better training facilities and through providing means to
train the master trainers.
33.         In reviewing the programme as a whole the IDA in its Project Review
(Part I of the Report) has made a number of general comments regarding the
project design, its implemientation and why the results achieved were not entirely
satisfactory.
34.         It has been stated that the institutional framework that the project
was designed to support never became fully operational. Both at the federal and
provincial levels the project was never fully assimilated and especially in the
field there was little understanding or appreciation of the work to be done.
One of the main reasons for unsatisfactory performance was said to be the failure
to set up a Project Administration Cell.  Another reason was that design and
preparatory work did not, in retrospect, take sufficient account of government
institutional constraints such as the rigidities of the PC-I system that delayed
project approval. The non-availability of technical staff, failure to appoint
consultants and the division of responsibility between the Federal and Provincial
Governments were some of the other reasons put forward.  More importantly, it
was felt that the lack of adequate political support for the programme during
the period in question became a very serious constraint.
35.         The Population Welfare Division feels that although some of the
short-comings pointed out about the structuring and implementation of the project
are well-founded, the project review does not make due allowance for the
political, administrative and financial constraints under which the project was
implemented. It also does not fully recognize all the implications that follow
from these constraints. For example the inability to prevent frequent staffing
changes among project personnel, the lack of political support and division of
responsibility between the centre and Provinces are problems which cannot easily
be solved because of the socio-economic conditions and administrative compulsions
prevalent in the country.   Also the production and implementing of the IEC
measures with the necessary freedom keeping in view the present cultural milieu
is not something which would be just solved by engaging a foreign consultant.
On the other hand it is not correct to say that there was lack of necessary
collaboration and consultation between the Population Welfare Division and other
Government Ministries/Departments particularly the Health and Education Division.
36.         For example the subject of Population Education was incorporated in
the formal school system and training of teachers was organized with the active
involvement of the Ministry of Education, without this collaboration it would
not have been possible to achieve the desired results.



- 11 -
37.         Similarly special efforts were made in 1987 for a more effective
involvement of the Provincial Health Departments for family planning service
delivery. Decisions taken by government in September, 1985 in relation to the
Rural Health Services formed the basis of this endeavor.   Separate project
proposals were drawn up in collaboration with the health departments, one for
each Province and on for the Federal District.   The proposals aimed at
involvement of over 5000 different types of health service outlets through
training of medical and para-medical personnel and provision of equipment (IUD
kits) and other commodities needed for family planning motivation and health
service.
38.         It is also not entirely correct to say that the IEC component was
never institutionalized because of delay in establishing properly staffed and
organized structure. The IEC activities through the media had remained dormant
during 1977-85.  As soon as government thought that conditions permitted the
launching of IEC campaigns, suitable programmes were developed and put across
through Radio, T.V. and the Press. The IEC structure is also organized with a
Federal Directorate of Communication IEC Cells in Provincial Headquarters and
one Deputy District Population Officer (C&T) in each district to organize the
community IEC activities.   The IEC PC-I for the Sixth Plan (1983-88) was
developed in close collaboration with the ODA/IDA Consultants and the staffing
pattern for the Federal and Provincial Organizations was determined with the
advice of these consultants.
39.         As regards proper orientation of field staff for implementing the
project, it may be mentioned that special briefings, workshops were organized
by the PWTI Karachi, to familiarise all concerned about the project concept,
components and activities. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Implementation
Volume were also distributed to the provinces, PWTIs and to selected districts
to serve as a regular reference input.
PERFORMANCE
40.         In the Project Review (Part I) it is stated that the project achieved
only limited success in both its institutional development and the achievement
of its family planning objectives.   Although the project contributed to the
strengthening of some part of the organizational structure, the transition from
a single purpose programme to a multi-sectoral and community oriented population
welfare programme could not be fully achieved. It is said that the IEC component
was never properly institutionalized and could not provide adequate technical
support to the training component. On the other hand, the results in the Non-
Clinical Training component were more positive but further technical assistance
and financial support would be necessary zo make them into a major resource for
the programme.   Although preliminary evaluation indicates that the ambitious
targets planned in the project were not actually achieved, an accurate idea
about the real achievements of the project would have to await the initiation
of the much delayed Demographic and Health Survey in the country.
41.         The implementation of the project, some of its shortcomings and the
progress achieved in each of the four main components is discussed below.
42.         Family Welfare Centres (FWCs):  The performance of the FWCs during
the period under review, by and large, reached the expected level of "good"



- 12 -
performance if judged in accordance with the criteria laid down by the IDA. For
example most FWCs had satisfactory premises  (three  rooms).   The monthly
attendance for family planning increased by 240 per cent between 1982-83 and
1984-85. During 1989 the average daily attendance per FWC included 4 to 5 family
planning clients out of which 2 to 3 were new cases.  There were also 1 to 3
ante-natal and post-natal cases and 13 to 15 cases of a general nature  The
centres maintained most of the necessary documentation such as the Clinical
Record cards and Client identification cards.  It was, however, felt that to
maintain the several registers and reports initially prescribed took up too much
of staffs time and energy.   To reduce the amount of the paper work, it was
decided, in 1989, to discontinue the Antenatal, Postnatal and Child Care cards.
43.         It was expected that each FWC would cover a population of about
20,000. Actually the coverage was less than half that figure. A survey in mid-
1985 showed that about 75 per cent of the clientele came from within a radius
of 5 kms of the centre.
44.         For the Provincial Line Departments, which formed part of this
component, the project provided funds for provision of services through 700
outlcts and training of 6 trainers alongwith necessary equipment, material and
contraceptives.   The PLD component had a delayed start in all provinces and
generally did not come up to expectations. There were several administrative
and other problems. The trainers of the Health Ministry could not be trained
and their work was down by the programme personnel. The number of PLD outlets
involved in family planning work in the Bank districts were less than half the
number provided for. In late 1987 a meeting was chaired by the Federal Minister
concerned in which Provincial Ministers and Secretaries were invited in order
to generate  greater  interest  in this  component.    This  resulted in some
improvement but it was not very marked.
45.         Project support was also provided to 50 outlets of Target Group
Institutions (TGIs) including training of clinical and non-clinical staff. This
component remained a Federal activity throughout. In all, 14 large organizations
were involved in the project operating through 175 service outlets.   This
component experienced the usual teething problems which were overcome and there
was steady improvement in the achievement of prescribed targets.   The main
problem in project execution however, was the monitoring cf activities of TGIs
from the federal level because of the remote location of service points.
Although an evaluation in early 1988 showed fairly satisfactory results but
monitoring and supervision still remained a weak area.  Almost all the funds
budgeted for TGIs were utilized.
46.         Non Clinical Training:  The training component was well conceived
and represented a definite need of the programme. The overall performance in
this component in terms of indicators laid down in the Staff Appraisal Report
reflects a satisfactory level of achievement.   The utilization of credit,
however, was on the low side as compared to the estimates given in the SAR and
Implementation Volume. This was mainly due to over-estimation, heavy contingency
provisions and incorporation of items/activities which were not approved as part
of the PC-I.  The rigid conditions linked to procurement of equipments also
posed difficulties and delayed the utilization of funds.  There were some delays
in the recruitment of staff for the PWTIs and this alongwith the ADP restrictions
were some of the main problems which effected the performance and level of
utilization of the credit. Lack of a proper system for, evaluation of training



- 13 -
activities, for improving the skill of faculty members and refiiing course
content however remained a weak area of the component.
47.         Population Education  The Population Education component was also
a well conceived project which envisaged revision of curricula, incorporation
of relevant material in text books, development of teachers guides and training
of middle and secondary school teachers. It was designed to provide a conceptual
base for awareness of the implications of population growth. One of the main
difficulties in implementing, the project was the inadequate level of ADP
provision from GOP resources which contributed to the low utilization of the
credit. Funds were also released late and consequently plan activities could
not be undertaken  in accordance with  the time  schedule.    The  financial
requirements for carrying out the population education activities were in general
assessed on the high side with the result that actual utilization of funds was
always low. The expenditure on workshops and cost of non-expendable equipment
included in the project were in particular over-estimated. The Bank support for
the component remained satisfactory during the project period.
48.         IEC Component:  The Bank estimates during the project preparation
stage were rather optimistic.   The financial and commodity needs to the
communication activities, assessed for the Sixth Plan, were on the high side with
the result that fund could not be fully utilized. In respect of procurement of
equipment the Population Welfare Division considered the quantity as unrealistic
and wanted to reduce the amount involved but on the insistence of the Bank full
procurement was made. After de-federalization of the programme some problems
were felt vis-a-vis management and coordination of activities to be carried out
by the provinces. This adversely effected utilization c. funds to some extent
because the provinces in many cases had to seek prior approval of the Population
Welfare Division. However, the strategy was changed during the 7th plan and some
of the activities such as local Radio programmes, Films and Publications etc.
were entrusted to the Provinces and funds were placed at their disposal to ensure
quick execution of the programmes.   During the project period, level of ADP
provisions were at times not commensurate with the Bank reimbursement scale.
This also contributed to low utilization of the credit.
49.         During the period April 1985 to 1988, IEC programmes were carried
out through Radio, T.V., Press, A.V. Vans, cinema slides, cultural events,
seminars and group meetings. As little field research had been done in IEC the
Population Welfare Division assigned an audience research study to the National
Institute of Population Studies. NIPS carried out the survey and its report was
submitted to the Division in 1989 which shows encouraging results of this
activity.   It appears that IEC support to other components particularly the
service delivery was available and the link between IEC campaigns and the family
planning practices has also been largely established. The NIPS study made useful
recommendations for strengthening the IEC programme which are being made use of
in the development of new programmes.
BANK-BORROWER RELATIONSHIP
50.         The overall relationship between the Bank and the Borrower has been
effective, supportive and mutually beneficial. There has however been over-
emphasis on the conditions and operational details of the activities which
normally are better left to the judgement of the borrower. A comparative study
of the aide-memoire would reveal series of conditions running through the



- 14 -
implementation period of the project. This inevitably created problems for the
Borrower, and considerable effort and energy are directed in fulfilling these
requirements at the cost of the programme as the whole. The need is to adopt
a balanced and flexible approach, which is supportive and reflects appreciation
of the constraints under which work has to be done.
51.         It is also desirable that the borrower be given freer choice in the
assessment of its needs and in revising these in the light of experiences gained
during implementation.
52.         Another need is for donor agencies to try to understand the priority
areas identified by the Borrower and provide assistance accordingly.   Agency
missions should also not be over-critical of programme implementation and should
try to understand the governments, political and administrative constraints under
which the programme is being implemented.
53.         The format for progress reports was complicated and unnecessarily
detailed. This could be avoided and in fact the format was later revised to make
it simpler and more easy to operate.
ADEQUACY OF DETAILED INFORMATION IN REPORT
54.         The factual information and details given in the report appear to
be generally correct and adequate.   There is however some variation in the
information provided under item-6 of Annex-I.5 The number of teachers required
to be trained during the period 1982-89 was 15140. Against this target 11,076
teachers were trained.   It has also been stated in Annex-I that Population
Education concepts are already included in the course curricula of teachers'
courses and primary level courses in Science, Social Studies and in languages.
The correct position is that Population Education concept has been incorporated
in the text books of classes VI-X as per decision of the Government of Pakistan.
In addition, Population concepts have also been included in the courses of
Primary Teaching Certificate  (PTC) and Certificate of Teaching  (CT).   No
provision has been made for inclusion of these concepts in Grades 11-12.
CONCLUSIONS
55.         The Population We'lfare Division agrees in principle to some of the
conclusions in the project review namely that sustained political support is
crucial for population operations to be successful and the project should be
firmly grounded in recent sector analysis before project preparation is
undertaken. This not only identifies the issues and problems the sector faces
but also enhances the quality of dialogue between the borrower and the lender.
Some other points and need to be kept in view in undertaking future projects are
firstly, since a lot of implementation is being undertaken by provincial
agencies, it would be very desirable if representatives of the provinces are
involved from the stage of project preparation so that they are fully familiar
with the intricacies of the project.  Provincial representation on the formal
review meetings with donor missions would also be helpful.  There is need to
adopt a more practical approach and for better appreciation and understanding
of the established procedures and constraints under which the project has to
5    The reference is now to Part III, Table 7 (see footnote 3).



- 15 -
operate in a developing country. A similar apporach should abe adopted in laying
down the procedure for procurement of equipment etc. as this has often delayed
use of related allocations.
56.         On the other hand short-fall in the ADP provisions were often a
serinus constraint and delays in the release of funds was also a reason for slow
implementation of the project.



- 16 -
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related IBRD loans and IDA Credits                    None
2. Project Timetable
Item                        Planned             Revised              Actual
-Identification             Feb-March 1981         -                 Feb-March 1981
-Preparation Mission I      June-July 1981         -                 June-July 1981
-Preparation Mission II                                              November 1981
-Appraisal                  March 1982                               May 1982
-Negotiations               October 1982                             Feb-March 1983
-Board Approval             January 1983                             April 1983
-Credit Signature                                                    May 1983
-Credit
Effectiveness              August 1983                              December 1983
-Project
Completion                 June 30, 1986    March 31, 1988          June 30, 1989
-Credit Closing             March 31, 1987   Sept 30, 1988           Dec 31, 1989
Comments:   a)  Appraisal was delayed because of the nced for a second preparation
mission. b) Credit effectiveness was delayed because of late approval of PC-ls
and by GOP's plans to provincialise some project activities.  c)  Tho project
extensions were approved to complete project implementation.



- 17 -
3, Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(millions of SDR)
GOP Fiscal Year    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990
Appraisal'/
Estimate            1.66    5.20    9.82   14.23   16.60       -       -      -
Actual               0.00    1.42    2.73    4.49    5.23   7.17    8.98   9.93
Actual as
X of estimate      0.00   27.31   27.80   31.55   31.51  43.19   54.10  59.82
Date of Final
Disbursement       January 12, 1990
Cancelled            6.67
Comments:   The low levels of disbursement were primarily attributable to two
factors: (a) delayed project start-up resulting in, for early project years, no
disbursements for operating costs being made at 90%; few made at 75%; and the
majority made at 55%; and (b) no new activities being undertaken in project
districts requiring additional services or equipment (covered at 100% of costs).
1  Estimated from Annex 7, SAR, using the US$-SDR conversion factor of
0.92.



- 18 -
4. Project Implementation
Indicators/ Appraisal Estimate                                  Actual
IEC COMPONENT
1. Building Organizational Capability
-Director develop first IEC masterplan and                 First plan developed
distribute to all deputies by July 1,1983.                 in 1985.
-By end 1983, all district officers will                   no records maintained
have received basic training at PWTIs                     but majority trained
and received re-training
-Quarterly review of plan progress, provin-                Not done, but expected
cially and nationally.                                    to start shortly.
-By July 1983, all TGIs to be provided                     TOI evaluation survey
educational material covering main                         in May, 1988, found
contraceptive services.                                    lack of IEC material
hampering motivation
activities and
service delivery.
-By end July 1983 at least 35% of FWCs                     By 1985, 15 information
have full complement of printed                           booklets featuring FP,
material; by end Sept 1983, 25% will                      MCH, nutrition prepared
have pre-tested slide/tape equipment and                   and distributed; slide/
programs.                                                  tape equipment recently
procured and yet to be
distributed.
-By July 1983, district deputies attend at                 No records available
least 75% of monthly AMC meetings.
-By end March 1984 district deputies to                    No records available
provide first follow-up team training
courses at FWC level
2. In FWC service areas:
-Numbers/types of community volunteers                     Community volunteers
participating in field motivation                         and contraceptive
distributors recruited,
with numbers in position
ranging from 90%-11O%
of target, by province.
Extent and type of
activity not known.



- 19 -
-Increased attendance at FWCs                                By 1989, daily attend-
ance per FWC increased
to 13-15 with 4-5 family
planning clients, and
2-3 new acceptors.
-Meetings by field staff with groups in                      Information on FWCs and
communities                                                 its activities imparted
during film shows by AV
vans.
-Participation in FWC sponsored development                 No involvement by IEC
activity                                                    staff.  FWC develop-
ment activities res-
tricted to eg. sewing
classes, vegetable
gardens.
-Increased adoption of recommended MCH behavior             No information avail-
able since the mid-
censal demographic
survey has not yet been
conducted.
-Increase in accep'ance and continued use of                Some increase, see
contraception                                              Annex II, Tables Al to
A3. No information on
continued use.
3. Institution building -,rocess:
- .ctive public/private -:romotion                          No records available
of FP by increased num'er of local leaders
-involvement of increaEed numbers of front-line             No records available
field workers in FWC and FP promotion
-Significant increases ia contraceptive use.                1984: 9.1% usage.
Service statistics
estimated 13% by June
1988.
FWC COMPONI,NT
1. Progress in implementation:
-by mid-1983, 70% of FWCs in project                        FWC evaluation survey
districts should be located in                             conducted in 1985
adequate and renovated facilities.                          found most Centres had
Staff vacancies less than 20%.                              satisfactory premises;



-20-
vacancies still remain
in female staff (FWA)
critical to increasing
FP acceptance.
-by end 1983, all FWCs in project districts                 Additional resources
should be operating under new scheme                       for scheme excluded in
PC-1.
2. Indicators of Quality/Acceptability:
- by end of project period, each FWC                     By 1989, 13-15 clients
should have on a daily basis:                          with 4-5 to pick up
contraceptives, 2-3
- 14 FP/MCH care clients                              new acceptors, 1-2
- 3-4 clients to pick up contraceptives               ante-natal cases
-FWCs implement system of referrals of mothers/             Regular referral
children to health facilities and receive                  system not been set up
instructions in follow-up                                  for administrative
reasons. Ad hoc
arrangements often
made.
-3 pre-natal checks, post-natal check with                  No information tabulated,
FWA or FWW, advice on birth spacing or                     and decided to discon-
sterilization                                              tinue information cards
in 1988.
-maternal card with OB/GYN history and advice               Simplified card
on FP given                                                introduced in 1989.
-home follow-up visits by FWAs for clients that             Varied according to
failed to reattend for further supplies                    location of FWC, and
d_dication of female FWA.
-acceptors increase by 10% annually, FP users               Service statistics
by 2-4%                                                    show increased acceptance
of FP methods (see Annex
II).
-weight/growth charts for infants, to be filled             Financial constraints
by FWAs, and mid-arm circumference measurement             affected supply of
recorded in clinic card.                                   growth charts; but
growth monitoring
nevertheless encouraged
at FWC.



- 21 -
Comments: Because of the delayed start-up and problems with project
implementation, the focus of supervision missions was on key isEues/actions
identified by previous supervision mission rather than on process indicators
outlined in the appraisal report. This also affected the process evaluation of
the Programme Training Component. Evaluation of the impact of the Population
Education Comnponent was not expected to occur within the project period.



- 22 -
5. Project Financing
Original
Planned                                       Expenditure
(Credit Agreement)   Amended    Final              Categories
(in US$ millions)
IDA           18.0                       11.8       Equipment; consultant
services; training; PAC;
subsequent project
preparation; operating
costs; PPF.
Co-financing
Institutions:
ODA - U.K.      2.7             2.9       2.1"/     Vehicles; evaluation
studies; seed funds;
innovative activities.
USAID           3.4                       3.4       Contraceptives
Domestic        4.1                       3.42/     Operating costs; training;
vehicles; equipment.
Total     28.2            28.4      20.7
Comments:   (a)  The undisbursed IDA balance was considered under the proposed
(1988-89) "support of government social sec_.or objectives." A GOP proposal was
reviewed by IDA Management, but declared ineligible for further funding.
(b) The ODA grant was increased to US$2.9 million in 1985.
1      Estimated from annex 3, table 1 of the "Report of the ODA Review and
Pre-appraisal Mission", Overseas Development Administration, London,
September, 1989. ODA expenditure is continuing.
2      Estimated from IDA and ODA actual expenditures on various categories;
for example, equipment by IDA and vehicles by ODA specified were
procured, hence GOP commitment for taxes and duties was included in
the total.



- 23 -
6. Proiect Costs
Appraisal                  Actual
Estimates     Amended        Cost
(in U.S. $ Millions)
1.  Equipment and materials                         2.1                     2.9
2. Consultant services,
preparation of mid-censal survey
and future projects                         2.6                     0.31
3. Local training and project
administration cell                         3.6                     0.9
4.  Operating costs                                15.3                    16.4
5. Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance                        0.3                      0.2
6.  Unallocated                                     4.3                     0.0
TOTAL                                         28.2       28.4"/       20.7
Comments: Actual costs are estimates as of March 8, 1990. See footnotes in
table 5.
The ODA grant was amended from 2.7 to 2.9 in 1985.



- 24 -
7. Proiect Results: Direct Benefits
Major                          Appraisal         Estimated at       Percentage
Components/Sub-Components      Estimate          Closing Date       Achieved
National Components:
Program Training
- establish PWTIs                  2                 3                 150
- training: 1/
PWD field staff
PLD and TGI             ) 158,869      )     90,558                  57
Community-based groups                 1
IEC 2/
- establish an IEC     establish federal    established
organization         and provincial
organizations
- AV and transport                90                 90                100
vans
Population Education
- teacher training             36,000 3/        11,076                  31
- AV kits                      16,000           10,000 4/               63
- teacher training             20,000            8,550 5/               43
through correspondence
courses
Regional Component:
Family Welfare Centres 2/
- establish multi-purpose
FWCs                          292              293                 100
Provincial Line Departments
- establish FP and education/
motivation activities in
health outlets                 700              982 6/                -
- non-clinical training       6 trainers       none trained              0
in MOH
Target Group Institutes
- establish FP/IEC
services                   50 health            174 6/                -
outlets
- posting motivators
at selected outlets             78               51                  65
- non-clinical training       6 trainers      none trained               0



- 25 -
- - Not applicable
1/ Targets for period 1982-83 to 1987-88.
2/ See Table 4 for additional details on this component.
3/ IDA Comment: Although PWD states in para 54 that 15,140 teachers were
to be trained during the period 1982-89, the SAR gives a total
of 36,000 teachers to be trained by the end of the project period.
4/ For period 1983-86.
5/ See Annex III for details.
6/ Because the Borrower was unable to establish sufficient outlets in the
project districts, IDA acquiesced to PWD's request to extend coverage
nationwide.



8. Project Results: Studies
Studies                           Purpose (from ImDlementation Volume         Status and ImDact
1. Annual task analyses of        Process evaluation of regional             One completed during project preparation.
sample FWCs and other          components.                                Formed the basis of the FUC component.
FP outlets in project and
control districts.
2. Annual cost effectiveness      Process evaluation of regional             Detailedmethodologyestablished. Further
desk studies of FWCs, using   components.                                 work awaiting government budget.
data from existing service
statistics system.
3. Two management audits of       Process evaluation of regional             Firstunder implementation with ODA funds.
PWD, baseline and mid-         component.                                 Field work completed, first draft in
project.                                                                  April, 1990.
4. Two marketing-type surveys    Process evaluation of regional              One planned.  ODA approved funds, but no
on Public Acceptability        component.                                 government budget.                          a'
of FWCs.
5. Mid-censal demographic         Measure program impact on                  To be undertaken as part of Demographic
survey.                        fertility.                                 Health Survey. Projectproposalprepared
but no allocation in government budget.
USAID funded.
6. Studies on program             Process evaluation of regional              Eight studies completed or
acceptance and fertility       component.                                 ongoing. I
determinants.
1 The Economic Value of Children                           Evaluation of Non-Clinical Training Project
Evaluation of Outreach Component in FWCs                Ongoing:
Population Projections                                    - Communication Evaluation (USAID)
State of the Population of Pakistan                       - NGO evaluation
FWC Evaluation Survey, 1985
Comments: The evaluation component is mostly ODA and USAID financed.



- 27 -
9. Status of Covenants
Description of Covenant               Date            Status of Implementation
1.  Section 3.01 (b). Establish-                         Not established; functions
ment of Project Administra-                          were weakly performed by
tion Cell within PWD.                                regular directorates.
2.  Section 3.02. (i) Employment    Feb. 1, 1984         Employed in accordance with
of Consultants                                       Bank procedures.
(ii) Employment of 2 IEC                             Training consultant
Consultants                                          employed; long-term IEC
design and production
consultant was to be
employed during project
extension FY87-88 and FY88-
89, but no action was taken
by PWD. Some short-term
consultants using grant
money have been provided.
3.  Section 3.04 (b). Monitor                            MIS functioning
and record progress of the                           ineffectively; UNFPA/
project.                                             ICOMP diagnostic study in
progress.
4.  Section 3.04 (d). Prepare                            Detailed arrangements for
project completion report                            preparation of PCR made
not later than six months                            during last two supervision
after closing date.                                  missions.
5.  Section 3.05 (a). Employ-         Mar. 1, 1984       Employed.
ment of Instructor in
Directorate Training and
Population Education.
6.  Section 3.05 (b). Distribu-       Dec. 1, 1983       Distributed in Feb. 1984.
tion of FWC manual.                                  A revised manual of guide-
lines for implementation
prepared and recently
distributed.
7.  Section 3.05 (c). Employ-                            Not employed.  Functions
ment of qualified procure-                           very weakly performed by
ment and logistic staff.                             regular directorates.
8.  Section 3.05 (d). Furnish         July 1, 1984       Furnished every six months
report on FWC staffing.



- 28 -
DescriRtion of Covenant               Date        Status of Implementation
9.  Section 3.05 (e). Annual                             Annually reviewed and
review and approval of                              approved.
training plans.
10. Section 3.05 (f). Annual                             Annually reviewed and
review and approval of                              approved.
national and provincial plans
for IEC for following year.
11. Section 3.06.  Memorandum of    Jan. 1, 1984         Formalized, and being
understanding with Ministry                          implemented; content of
of Education (MOE) concerning                       population education in
population education.                                training/teaching remains
very weak.
12. Section 3.07. Establishment       July 1, 1984       Established.
of MOE population education
cell.
13. Section 3.08. Establishment       Dec. 1, 1983       Established, but operated
of IEC directorate in PWD                            ineffectively, primarily
with appointment of qualified                       because no specialized
staff.                                              staff incorporated in the
directorate.
14. Section 3.09 (a). Appoint-        Mar. 1, 1984       Critical vacancies still
ment of PWTI staff                                   exist in PWTI in Multan.
15. Section 3.09 (b). Prepara-                           Prepared annually and
tion of annual training                             utilized.
plans.
16. Section 3.10. Provincial          Jul, 1, 1984       Started with listing
PWDs to prepare annual                              of new FWCs and FP outlets
plan of action for FP                                in other departments.  No
services in health and other                        action plans prepared.
line departments                                    Provision of FP services
by provincial health
department outlets
formalized in Seventh Five
Year Plan. USAID financing
major FP training project
for health staff.
17. Section 4.01 (a, b). Mainte-                         System of maintaining and
nance and retaining of appro-                       retaining accounts esta-
priate project accounts.                            blished and operational.
18. Section 4.01 (c, d).  Annual                        Audits seriously delayed.
auditing and presentation of                        Audit for FY 1988-89, due
audits to the Association.                          on March 31, 1990, not yet
received.



- 29 -
10. Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
State of                                 Staff Weeks 1/
Project Cycle                                Actual
Through Appraisal                           195.6
Appraisal through
Effectiveness                               14.3
Supervision                                 150.6 2/
TOTAL                                       360.5
1/  Time spent in Headquarters and in the field.
2/ Upto and including FY89.



- 30 -
11. Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Mission         Month/    Number       Specialization    Types of       Performance
Year        of       Represented a/    Problems b/  Status
Persons                                       Rating c/
Reconnaissance  2-3/81       4         PS; MCH/FP;
TRG; CT/NCT
Preparation      6-7/81      6        PS; PH; TRG,
EV; IEC; OPP
Preparation      11/81       3        PS; OP; OPP
Appraisal        5/82        7         PS; TRG/PE; IEC;
EV; E/F; MCH/FP; OPP
Post-Appraisal  9-10/82    4          PS; TRG/PE;
IEC; OPP
Review           7-8/83      4         PS; IEC; TRG; PA      M; T           2
Supervision I   12/83        4        PS; D;
TRG; PA               M; T            2
Supervision II  4/84         4         PS; D; IEC; PA        M; T           2
Supervision III 11-12/84   5          PS; MCH/FP, IEC;
PE; PA                P; M; T        3
Supervision IV  9/85         4        PS; PA; H/FP; HC       T; M           2
Supervision V   4-5/86       6        PS;2, OP; IEC;
PA; H/FP              T; M           2
Supervision VI  10/86        2        2 OP                   T; M           2
Supervision VII 6/87         1        PS                     T; M           3
Supervision VIII  2-3/88   3          PS; IEC/TRG/PE; D    T; M             3
Supervision IX  6-7/89       2        PS; D                  M              3
a/  PS - Population Specialist; E = Economist; MCH = Material child health;
FP - Family planning; CT = Clinical training; NCT = Non-clinical training;
TRG = Training specialist; PE = Population education; EV - Evaluation
specialist; IEC = IEC specialist; F - Financial analyst; PH = Public health
specialist; OPP - Operations officer (RMP); OP - Operations Officer,
Headquarters; PA = Projects advisor (RMP); D = Demographer, MC   Management
consultant; H/FP - Health/FP Administration
b/  M = Managerial; T = Technical; P   Political
c/  1 = Problem-free or minor problem;  2 = Moderate problems;  3   Major
problems.



- 31 -                                  Annex I
Page 1 of 6
DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES!'/
1.       The project comprised the following national and regional components.
A. National Scope Components
2.       Project Training:  This component, under the Directorate of Program
Training and Education, would assist in establishing two Population Welfare
Training Institutes - one in Lahore to serve the province of Punjab, with
staff in Peshawar to cover NWFP and one in Karachi to serve the province of
Sind, with staff in Quetta to train workers in Baluchistan. The Directorate
would be responsible for undertaking and/or assigning to the training
institutes development of course curricula, teaching aids, and training
manuals; it would also have a program of continued education for trainers,
including a master trainers program.
3.       Each Institute would perform the fol'lowing functions: (a) develop and
update annual regional training plans and assist district officers in
preparing local training plans; (b) develop curricula, materials and malkuals
for various courses to be given either by PWTI staff, or district officers, or
trainers of other government departments and institutions; (c) train trainers
and offer them support, technical assistance and monitoring; (d) define and
manage contracts with consultants, firms and private organizations to assist
PWTIs in their various tasks; (e) design and conduct selective orientation
sessions on the population welfare program (although their main function vis-
a-vis training of non-population workers would be to monitor and support such
sessions conducted by other departments and institutions); (f) periodically
evaluate all training programs and revised curricula as necessary; and (g)
identify needs for training in management, jointly with the management of the
Population Welfare Division and conduct and/or arrange for such training.
4.       Information, Education and Communication:  The wide gap between
awareness and practice of family planning and the need to change the public
image of the population program from a single purpose approach to a multi-
sectoral effort requires a reorganized and revitalized IEC structure and
program, utilizing a blend of channels from face-to-face communication to
group meetings and mass media. The main focus of this component is to
ene7ourage the adoption of the small family norm and to assist in removing
resistance to contraceptive use. The IEC strategy consists of identifying and
addressing specific target audiences through a variety of channels, each one
having a particular role in achieving program goals.
5.       The preferred form for direct family planning motivation will be
individual or group discussion in which the provider of information and advice
will be a knowledgeable member of the local community (such as satisfied
1/       Summarised from the SAR.



- 32 -                               Annex I
Page 2 of 6
acceptors and service providers). The project design encourages community
participation using approaches tested in other social action programs.
Program effectiveness will depend on correct identification and collaboration
with these indigenous systems, coupled with coordinated support from mass
media and other channels.
6.       Interpersonal communication and group discussions would be
facilitated by appropriate audio-visual (AV) equipment, production of
publicity and educational materials (print, film strips with discussion
formats put together as "motivational kits"), and cassette players with pre-
recorded scripts. Each district will also operate an AV van, equipped with
16mm motion picture projector for use with large groups. The vans will be
used to show entertainment features - including dramas, puppets, local
entertainers' films - and to make announcements abut FWC activities. There
will also be structured workshops and seminars for special interest groups
designed to expose, inform, and elicit support for the program among leaders,
indigenous entertainers, officials of other departments or any other group.
7.       Television will be used only for legitimizing the new plan through
spot announcements, news items and documentaries, incorporation of the small
family norm in entertainment programming, and dissemination of the six broad
"themes" identified in the plan. Radio will be used effectively for
broadcasting interviews about FWC activities with FWC staff and volunteers as
a way of enhancing worker's prestige and generating interest in the program.
Print Media (mainly press) will be used to reach literate, influential persons
and promote the program.
8.       An IEC organization will be established through this project, capable
of designing, implementing and evaluating programs for a wide range of
audiences, through multiple channels, encompassing the program described
above; it would also provide communication training, supervision, manuals, and
educational materials to workers and volunteers. At the national level, a
Directorate of Communication and Production (C&PD), in Lahore, with three
divisions and one section for production and publications, will be responsible
for, inter   ia, developing and obtaining policy clearances, designing,
testing and -aproducing materials, overseeing IEC staff selection at all
levels; maintaining regular contacts with the training directorates;
supporting the provincial and district IEC-training staff; and developing and
implementing IEC workplans using appropriate media and strategies based on
evaluation/research findings. In each of the four provinces, a Deputy
Director for IEC reporting to the Population Director General will be the
manager of the IEC field program. Each district will be staffed by a
communication officer with responsibilites for training, follow-up and
supervision of FWC staff and v3lunteers concerning their IEC work, as well as
for field-level coordination with other government departments.
9.       Population Education in the Formal School System:  This national sub-
component seeks to reinforce the population education program currently in
existence in the formal school system of the Ministry of Education. It
intends to reach 2.2 million students from intermediate and secondary levels
with instruction that will encourage critical thinking in relating population



- 33 -                                Annex I
Page 3 of 6
dynamics to its effects upon communities and families. A second objective is
to provide teachers with an understanding of the consequences of population
growth for the country, the community and the family and fully acquaint them
with the objectives and activities of the population welfare program. Teacher
training will be supplemented by correspondence courses to be conducted by the
Open University, with appropriate radio, television, and seminars.
10.      Population education concepts are already included in the school
curricula of teachers' courses and primary level courses in sciences, social
studies, and languages (Urdu and English). The project will enable
preparation of instructional and textbooks units for grades 1 to 3. In
addition, it would assist integration of population concepts in the ten
subjects taught in grades 11 and 12 of the intermediate level, the review of
existing textbooks for content on pop!u ation education, and the development of
curricula content for grades 4 to 10 _   This sequence follows the current
schedule of overall cirricula development and textbook review of the Federal
MOE and provincial departments of education.
B. Regional Component
11.      This component provides co-ordinated packages of new program
activities in thirteen districts with a total of about 20 million people. Of
these districts, three in Karachi and Sheikhupura in Punjab include towns and
cities where public response to FP may be more forthcoming; five other
districts in .NWFP and Baluchistan provinces were selected inspite of low
levels of program acceptability to make a beginning with new program
activities in all provinces; and Jhang and Multan in Punjab and Tharparkar and
Sukkur in Sind, agricultural districts with past low program performance, were
selected to take advantage of other community development activities. The
project would implement three sub-programs of the Plan in the selected
districts: (a) FWC's; (b) family planning service outlets of other
government departments; and (c) family planning outlets in target group
institutions. Other Plan sub-programs and "projects" would also take place in
those districts, either financed as part of the national project component
(i.e. program training, IEC, and population education in schools including
teacher training) or by other donors-e.g. clinical training of health and FWC
staff, contraceptive surgery in RHS centers, etc. The main differences
between project and non-project districts would be that in t1he former:
(a) the various activities would be programmed on a monthly basis
and operational plans and schedules would be prepared by each
work unit and individual staff and used by DPWOs to monitor
progress, identify problems and offer support;
(b) several new approaches, especially the FWC concept, cooperation
with health departments and other institutions, and IEC
2V   IDA Comment:  With reference to the Borrower's comment in paragraph 54,
the above information has been summarised from the SAR.



- 34 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
activities, would be first tested in project districts, thus
encouraging a phased implementation of activities whose design
many need adaptation and modification before nationwide
extension;
(c)  additional resources from the project would be available in
projected districts for changing staffing patterns of FWCs as
the work volume increases; making financial and technical
resources available to health departments and other
institutions to provide family planning services; providing
adequate incentives to volunteers; supplementing rent
allowances for appropriate housing and location of FWC's;
providing for appropriate maintenance of equipment and cente.s;
(d)  contractual medical services would be available for advising
and assisting in the implementation of improved service,
supervision and referral in FWCs and other FlE service outlets;
and
(e) a comprehensive evaluation scheme would be an on-going activity
in project and control districts, to provide reliable
information for future program planning.
12.      Family Welfare Centers:  The project would assist in conversion of
about 250 clinics remaining from the old population program which were single
purpose family planning service points with some ad hoc curative functions,
into FP/MCH/community development centers, named FWCs. The project would also
assist the establishment of 42 FWCs in locations selected for their easy
access and complimentarity with other health outlets.
13.      Advisory Management Committees (AMC) will be formed in each FWC area
and will facilitate and support the center's functions. The AMC is expected
to: (a) assist as necessary in obtaining physical facilities for FWCs, and
maintain them; (b) identify and recruit community volunteers; and (c) be
the channel for identifying genuine community needs, working out a community
activity plan, seeking funding and mobilizing community resources, and
establishing links with relevant Government departments.
14.      Each centre would be staffed by five workers:  a Family Welfare
Worker, one female Family Welfare Assistant (FFWA), a male Family Welfare
Assistant (MFWA), and two support staff. A Family Welfare Counsellor
reporting to the District Population Welfare Officer would supervise two
centers and spend two weeks of the month in each center. Services available
at the center would include antenatal delivery and postnatal care; FP advice
and services; nutrition surveillance of children under 5 years; pediatric
care; immunisations; and health education of mothers. For referral purposes,
the center will keep a list of nearby hospitals, health centers and outpatient
departments, either Government or private and the names of doctors in charge
of maternity and children sections.



- 35-                                      Annex I
Page 5 of 6
15.      The project will also test the alternative of obtaining cooperation
from private sector associations to run a few of these centers. The
Population Welfare Division will provide funds to the NGOs equivalent to the
star:dard cost of running a center, and perhaps trained staff, and the private
organization would agree to contribute additional funds and voluntary manpower
for administering the centers and for bringing them up to pre-agreed higher
standards of services.
16.      The project will provide each FWC with seed money for community
activities through the District Population Offices. The FWC staff is
responsible for establishing an appropriate program for women's meetings at
the centers and stimulating the AMC to take at least one project in skill
development and income generation at a time. In selecting any activity, the
AMC and the staff should ensure that the priority and focus of population
welfare is maintained. Among the income generating activities two types may
be distinguished: (a) those which result in products that can be marketed
and (b) those which benefit the families by extending the family budget.
17.      Family Planning Service Outlets and Other Government Departments:
This sub-component would introduce family planning services and
education/motivation in 700 health facilities of several provincial government
departments and local bodies. All four provincial population DGs are
preparing action plans with the respective secretaries of health and other
sectors. Since RTIs have a heavy load with the training of the clinical staff
of the Population Division (mainly FWWs, counselors and female FWAs), this
sub-component would finance training in family planning of six trainers from
participating departments so that such training can be institutionalized in
the schools and auxiliary training center of the participating departments.
The project would also provide equipment and materials (including IEC aids) to
participating health outlets, for service delivery. Participating departments
would be provided with an initial supply of contraceptives; the funds obtained
from initial sales to clients would be kept by each department as a revolving
fund for subsequent purchases.
18.      Family Planning Service Outlets of "Target Group Institutions:  The
objective and design of this sub-component are similar to those described for
service outlets in other provincial government departments, however, it will
be administered in a slightly different way. Because public sector
institutions relate to the Federal Government, this component would be a
responsibility of the Federal Population Welfare Division, assisted by the
provincial population directorates as required. Public sector institutions
would provide family planning services and information/education to their
employees and families through 50 health outlets that those organizations have
in the project districts. The main institutions are: Armed Forces, WAPDA,
Fauji Foundation, Pakistan International Airlines, Pakistan Railways and
Pakistan Steel Mills. The project will train staff in clinical aspects of
family planning, as well as in motivation/education as would be relevant to
various types of staff. It would also finance training of six trainers, one
each from the respective organization, to institutionalize FP training. The
institutions would buy contraceptives from the Population Welfare Division and
the project would provide IEC printed and audio-visual materials and would



- 36 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
assist in preparing various IEC activities for the constituents of those
organizations.
C. Project Administration, Evaluation and Preparation of Future Projec...s
19.      Project Administration:  The project would establish a Project
Administration Cell in the Population Welfare Division by financing salaries,
travel and per diem for supervision, vehicles for national and provincial
population offices, vehicle operation, and maintenance.
20.      Monitoring and Evaluation:  Under this component, it would finance
consultant services, travel and per diem, data processing and other operating
costs for undertaking, in project and control districts the following
evaluation activities: (i) yearly samples of FWCs for task analyses through
observers; (ii) two FWC cost-effectiveness studies based on information from
the regular service statistics and financial/accounting systems; (iii) one
baseline and one mid-project management audit of streams of administrative
processes in each province; (iv) two marketing-type sample surveys on
receptivity of FWCs among communities; and (v) block allocation for studies
on program acceptance and fertility determinants.
21.      Preparation of Future Projects:  This component would provide
consultant services of an engineering adviser and architectural firm(s) for
preliminary design and detailed drawings of 12-14 training buildings, and
travel and per diem for the following project preparation activities: (i)
selecting and acquiring sites; (ii) planning accommodation requirements and
preparing detailed accommodation schedules; and (iii) producing engineering
designs, and detailed drawings.
D. Innovative Activities
22.      Approximately 3% of the total base cost will be allocated to small-
scale experimental programs to be identified during the project period. UK-
ODA financed this component. Each proposal would be reviewed by ODA and IDA
before implementation.



Annex II
Page 1 of 3
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PERFORMANCE
Table A.l. Targets and Achievements of Contraceptive Delivery by Method
during 1983-86 to 1987-88
Contraceptive         1983-84              1984-85                1985-86                1986-87             1987-88              TOTAL
Method            Target Achieved      Target   Achieved     Target  Achieved      Target Achieved    Target Achieved       Target   Achieved
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__------------------------------------------------------------__-
Sales of Condoms
(Units)       128700000  58563652  133099872   81567835  151554420   84389081  168654564 100729955  143754192 137403008  725763048  462653531
Sales of oral-
pill (Cycles)   4225000    740707    3907836     927439    3953252    1274049    4521060   1445372   3874776   1879216  20481924    6266783
Insertions of
IUD              188000    152310    231972      196636     269692     241905    401520    315769     639180    507884    1730364    1414504
Number of
injectables       95000     96035     549972     110427     677380    225179     819336    384190     947676   434603    3089364    1250434
Contraceptive
Surgery (Cases)   76000     41068     116928      58926     129676      69962     155616     69439     167880     77386     646100     316781
Sale of Foam
Bottles           59700     38460     120024      44930     193492      76717     277092    104977     274920    139405    925228      404489
Source:-----------------------------------------Monit----------__-----rin----__---------and-----------Evaluation.----------------------------_
Source: PWD, Monitoring and Evaluation.



Annex II
Page 2 of 3
Table A.?. Trend of Growth in National Performance of Contraceptive
Delivery Services, 1983-88
Performance during                    X              Targets established                7
Contraceptive method                 1983-84              1987-88          Increase           1983-84       1987-88         Increase
Sales of Condoms (Units)             58563652           137403008           134.62          128700000   143754192            11.70
Sales of oral pill (Cycles)            740707             1879216           153.71             4225000      3874776          -8.29                       1
Insertions of IUD                      152310              507884           223.45              188000       639180         239.99
Number of Injectables                   96035              434603           352.55               95000       947676         897.55
Contraceptive Surgery (Cases)           41068               77386            88.43               76000       167880         120.89
Sale of Foam Bottles                    38460              139405           262.47               59700       274920         360.50
Source: FWD, Monitoring and Evaluation.



Annex II
Page 3 of 3
Table A.3   Targets and Achievements of Births Avertedl/ by Contraceptive Methods
during 1983-84 to 1987-88
Contraceptive           1983-84                     1984-85                1985-86               1986-87              1987-88               Total
Method             Target   Achieved         Target   Achieved    Target  Achieved    Target   Achieved   Target   Achieved   Target  Achieved
Condom             154634      70364         159920       98004    182093    101394    202639    121027    172721    165090    872007   555880
Oral Pill           43387       7606          40130        9524      40596      13083      46427      14843     39790      19298    210330    64354
IUD                 32639      26443          40273       34138      46822      41997      69708     54821    110969       88174    300410   245574
Injectable           2283       2308          13217        2654      16279       5412      19691      9233      22775      10445      74246    30051
Contraceptive
Surgery           20321      10981          31264       15756      34673      18706     41609      18567      44888      20691    172754    84701
Foam                 1793       1155           3604        1349       5811       2304       8321       3152      8256       4186      27785    12147
Sub Total          255056    118857          288409      161425    326274    182896    388395    221643    399399    307885   1657532   992707
Carry Over                     92704                      50136                 65033                 79925                91945              379743
Grand Total                   118002                     211561                247929               301568                399830             1278891
Source: PWD, Monitoring and Evaluation.
1/ Estimates of births averted are the result of a mechanical exercise based on acceptance statistics.



Annex III
NATIONAL TEACHER ENROLLMENT FOR POPULATION EDUCATION COURSES
Autumn 84  Spring 85   Autumn 85  Spring 86   Autumn 86  Spring, 87   Autumn, 87   Spring, 88   Autumn, 88
Course           T  I F I T                    F    T F                       T F   F       T     F       T     F      T  IF
Population Education    863   286  1012  314   1042  356  1076  310   1112  377  1357   395   1135   250   1502    65    800   NA
for Primary/Middle
Schools
Population Education      -      -    -     -      -     -    -      -     -     -      -     -      -      -      -     -      531   NA
for secondary scbools__.                                                                     __.
Note:  T = Total;   F - Females;   NA   not available; - = not applicable
Source: Alama Iqbal Open University
4:-



- 41 -
Atta c'w'ent J
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
Eland House. Stag Place, London SWI E SOH
relex: 263907/U  FAX:01.273          Telepholt 01273 0654
at Switchboard: 01 273 3000
OtNI 273
four tel
Mr C. Walker                                             MSG NO. 1854
Population and Human                                     ASP 171/774/006A
Resources Division                                       A    7     4
The World Bank                                           6 February 1990
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
USA
PAKISTAN;  POPULATION PROJECT COMPLETION R RPOaT
With reference to your fax of 15 December 1989 to Alan Burner we have
now received comments from our advisers.
2.       In general the report has been prepared with care and a good
measure of Insight into the problems of programme design and project
implementation.  We therefore recommend overall endorsement.
3.      There are a few minor points of amendment on details of the ODA
inpuxs. They are as follows:
(t)   Para.  19  should  read  "ODA  audio-visual  and  transport
vans".
(ii)   Page 23:   ODA final credit agreement should read 2.9.
(it was increased in the 1985 aemeifdment).
(iii) Page 26: Project results table. The first draft of the
First Management Audit im now del*yed but we expect it by April
1990.
Please contact Ian Thomas or myself if you need any more information.
With best wishes.
(9   Pat Scutt (Mrs)
Southern Asia Department



RCV BY:92 21 512875          ;19- 3-90 : 16:15  11    0092 51 824807-'KARACHI SHERATON HTL;# 1
19--03/'90    16:18        WJORLD BANK ISLAMAnBAD PAKISTAN      001/00:3
- 43 -                     ATTACIIMENT II
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
qgl||                            MISSION TO PAKISTAN
Coble uSAInPAK                                          18- Sixtt Avcnue, Ramna 6,
Tleox 54270 PK                                          Post Of fiue Box 1028
Telephones 824071.79                                       l,4mobbd, P8k.stan
March 15, 1990
Mr. Bashir Parvez, Projects Advisor
World Bank Resident Mission in Pakistan
P.O. Box 1025
Islamabad
5ubject: Pakistan Population Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Parvez:
Thank you for sharing with us the draft of the subject report. USAID
staff were pleased to have a chance to review the draft and compare the
World Bank's experience with our own.
The World Bank project encountered many of the same constraints as the
AID projects are facing. In particular, lack of strong political
support, weak management and lack of adequate technical expertise,
including technical consultants, are critical Issues.
We have several other specific conmnents on the draft report.
1.   Project Administration Cell (PAC):. We fully agree.  A fully
operational PACwou1d nave been most useful for timely
implementation of the project.
2.   Defederalization:  The transfer of program implementation
responsibilIties to the provincial governments was a political
action. It not only complicated program management, monitoring and
supervision but also resulted in increased administrative and
bureaucratic hurdles. It did not necessarily "wldenu PWD's
responsibilities as the report indicated on page 1, but may have
narrowed PWD's role especially as it reduced PWD's effectiveness In
monitoring program implementation In the field. In our opinion, PWD
might have produced the desired results by its retention of
financial control, had the program not faced other administrative
constraints and budgetary cuts.
3.   ProgrOm opposition:  (Page 5. Para 17)  There has certainly been a
l     FcK or support to the program but we did not notice an "Opposition".
4.   Hostility:  (Page 8, Para 18)  The sociocultural milieu is not
fWiti1e to the program, though it may not be as conducive as
desired. The Government's apparent concerns that there will be
hostility have generally been unfounded. In our opinion, a



RCV JY:92 21 512875          .19- 3-9S  : 16:16        OOi2 51 a24d 7ARACHI SmEA-,N mTL;g 
13 '03',90   16:19          WORLD BA~NK I SLAMABAD PAK ISTAN     002/003
- 44 -                 ATTACHIENT II
lr, Bashir Parvez, Projects Advisor
Page Two
major constraint to the program has been the government's fear of
arousing hostility. This seems to have produced a reluctance to
develop an active program that is appropriate within the
sociocultural milieu.
5.   Multi-sectoral ApProach;  A multi-sectoral approach may be too
conq,1vcatea, given tne program s weak management and administrative
capabilities, frequent changes at upper levels in the staff, and
weak political support. It may be more effective in the future to
focus efforts in other sectors more narrowly, and to phase them in
slowly.
Again, we appreciated the chance to reew the draft project completion
report, and believe the findings are useful in considering our own work
also.
Sincerely,
en   Aarnes, Chief
Health, Population and Nutrition



