Document of
The World Bank                               |        I CY|
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3507-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION (US$18.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
April 7, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tl.
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autnronzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Palkistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1   =   Rs 13.0
Rs 1   =   US$0.077
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY
ViC    -  Advisory Management Committee
FWC    -  Family Welfare Center
IEC    -  Information, Education and Communication
MCH    -  Maternal and Child Health
PAC    -  Project Administration Cell
PWTI   -  Population Welfare Training Institute
RTI    -  Regional Training Institute
WAPDA  -  Water & Power Development Authority
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate:      Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate:      Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Natural        Difference between crude birth and crude death rates,
Increase:            usually expressed as a percentage.
Average Annual         Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migration,
Population           expressed as a percentage of the total population in a
Growth Rate:         given year.
Infant Mortality       Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per
Rate:                1,000 live births during the same year.
Total Fertility        The average number of children that would be born
Rate:                to a woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years, and bear children according to
a given set of age-specific fertility rates.
Percent Current        The percentage of married women aged 15-49 practicing
Users of             contraception at any given point in time.
Contraceptives:
Parity:                Number of children previously born.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                  SDR 16.6 million (US$18 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Project Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to assist
the Government in implementing its new Population
Welfare Plan and in establishing a sound basis for a
sustained and effective population planning effort
over the longer term. The project would focus on:
(a) the establishment of national training and
motivation programs for population planning; and (b)
the implementation of a comprehensive package of
population planning activities in 13 districts
serving about 20 million people. To achieve these
objectives, the project would include: (a) support
for non-clinical program training; (b) establishment
of a national IEC organization; (c) strengthening and
expanding population education in the formal school
system; (d) establishment of family welfare centers
and family planning service outlets; (e) monitoring
and evaluation; and (f) training and technical
assistance to strengthen the organizations
responsible for family planning and provision of
health services, as well as preparation of future
population projects. The main risks to the project
arise from possible administrative weaknesses and
opposition to the population program from various
fronts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs 1/
Local        Foreign          Total
----------US$ million …------
Training                                   2.3            0.3            2.6
Information, Education & Communication   3.8              1.4            5.2
Population Education                       1.2             -             1.2
Family Welfare Centers                     7.8            0.6            8.4
Family Planning Outlets                    0.2            0.1            0.3
Evaluation, Administration,
Preparation, Seed Funds                  1.0            0.8            1.8
Innovative Activities                      0.5            0.2            0.7
Contraceptives                              -             3.4            3.4
PPF Advance                                0.1            0.2            0.3
Base Cost                            16.9            7.0           23.9
Physical Contingencies                      -             0.2            0.2
Price Contingencies                        3.4            0.7            4.1
Total Project Costs                  20.3            7.9           28.2
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign         Total
…----US$ riillion-----
Federal Government                         4.1             -             4.1
USAID                                       -             3.4            3.4
UK                                         1.0            1.7            2.7
IDA                                       15.2            2.8           18.0
Total                                20.3            7.9           28.2
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
.--_US$mil1i on-  -               -
Annual                                    1.80    3.84    5.01    4.78    2.57
Cumulative                                1.80    5.64   10.65   15.43   18.00
Appraisal Report:        No. 4166-PAK, dated April 1, 1983
1/ Taxes and duties amount to about US$1.2 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE ISLAIIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A POPULATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 16.6 million (US$18.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a population
project. The United Kingdom and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) are expected to participate in financing the project
with grants of US$2.7 million and US$3.4 million equivalent, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on February 11, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about
2.8% p.a. and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real
terms by 10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8%
p.a. and in industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with
the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3462-PAK (Reservoir Maintenance Facilities Project)
dated February 22, 1983.



-2-
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.
At the same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy
(which has been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the
development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes
in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the
water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pes-
ticides, seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm
power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an
early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a
sharp increase in private investment, mainly in small and medium-scale
projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have



-3-
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The
budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82.
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79,
rose by an average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and inten-
sified efforts to improve tax collections. Although political developments
outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints
were maintained on total spending; the growth of public expenditures was
limited to 13% p.a. The expansion of development and administrative expen-
ditures were restrained, while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%.
These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During
FY80 through FY82, the overall budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the
bank-financed budget deficit 1.7% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77
and FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578
million in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was
US$991 million or 3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or
nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's
ability to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the
conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in Novem-
ber 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows;
and an agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for
rescheduling of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling
due over an 18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence
of improved performance on both current account and capital account, for-
eign exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million
during the year; the latter was the equivalent of about two months' worth
of import of goods and services.



-4-
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in
both unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in
the world economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitive-
ness resulting from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January
1982 (the currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket
of currencies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous
year. Because of the decline in world petroleum prices and import sub-
stitution in some key sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume
of imports of essential raw materials and capital goods could still grow
sufficiently to provide for a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total
value of imports expanded by only 2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakis-
tan's current account deficit rose from US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530
million in FY82 (the latter being equivalent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows
of official assistance, private capital and IMF resources were not suffi-
cient to cover the increased deficit and there was a drawdown of about
US$200 million in reserves. At the end of FY82, reserves were US$840
million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments, further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are
limiting economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the
factors lying behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental
factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, output growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on
yields at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity



-5-
is recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing
this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agricultural and
water sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be
further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and con-
sumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to
be carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in
pricing and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To
assist the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased
momentum in the industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local
and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the
more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage. Analysis is in progress to determine levels of
effective protection in order to provide the basis for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow and
Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be
realized.  The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relat-
ing to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order
to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany



-6-
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher
education and urban health facilities. The Government has recently shown
more awareness of this problem; a new and more promising population program
is in the initial stages of implementation, and several special programs to
improve basic health and education facilities were introduced in the FY83
budget, especially for rural areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the public sector and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through further
appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential
imports. Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve
revenues through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate
increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation
water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to
face a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance, and have established an improved framework within which further



-7-
reforms can be effectively pursued. The recent government policy initia-
tives, which have been formulated in close consultation with the Bank and
Fund, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing
and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt
(excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which
US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium,
US$1.2 billion to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the
balance to other bilateral and private lenders.  In 1981, the Bank Group's
share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external
debt service was 13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent
policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt
service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor services),
which was about 12% in FY82, should rise slowly during the 1980s, even
assuming substantial commercial borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remain-
ing in the 15-16% range through FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education. Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting
services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including



-8-
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important pur-
pose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry. As of September 30, 1982, IFC had made investments
in 15 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$92.2 million, of which US$82.4
million was by way of loans and US$9.8 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$33.9 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the
field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles, two in food and food
processing, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, plastics, wood
processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthen--
ing the institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and
federal and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening
the Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assist-
ing in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic
energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework
for increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply
project in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for
education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary,
post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural education, mid-
dle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment
lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June



-9-
1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government
procedures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to
slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle
East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural credit, drainage, oil and gas development, water supply and
education. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for
the reasons set out in Part I.  To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases
is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
Background
32.     The population of Pakistan was estimated at about 87 million in
mid-1982, an increase of about 36 million over the past 20 years, and is
estimated to be growing at about 2.8% p.a. This rapid rate of increase
is the result of large reductions in the mortality rate unaccompanied by
significant fertility declines.  Illustrative population projections show
that, if the growth rate continues at around present levels, the population
would reach about 135 million in the year 2000 and become stationary (zero
growth) 120 years later at around 310 million. Even with more substantial
fertility decreases during the next two decades (resulting in annual growth
rates of 2.4% and 1.8%, respectively), the population would be around 130
million in the year 2000 and stabilize at about 230 million in the year
2120.



-10-
33.     Although there is evidence of a slight decline in fertility from
7.5 children per woman in 1960-70 to 6.6 in 1970-80, several factors inter-
act to maintain a high crude birth rate, presently around 42 per 1,000
population. These include a young age structure resulting in a growing
number of women of reproductive age; a low mean age (about 17 years) at
first marriage; and almost universal marriage. Furthermore, the mortality
rate--which has fallen from about 20 per 1,000 in 1962-65 to around 13 per
1,000 today--still has considerable scope for declining further through
better sanitation and other preventive health measures.
34.     Although Pakistan was one of the first developing countries to
recognize the problem of rapid population growth, its efforts to lower
fertility rates during the past two decades have had little impact. Past
population programs have operated in an environment in which most of the
factors generally associated with high fertility rates have been present,
such as illiteracy, poverty and few employment opportunities for women
outside the home. Women's social esteem has derived, to a large extent,
from having a large number of sons. The programs themselves have suffered
from frequent changes; excessive focus on birth control itself; administra-
tive weaknesses; and inadequate support and commitment at high government
levels. Although several schemes had well-conceived elements, activities
were frequently expanded wi.thout sufficient testing, flexibility for adap-
tation or provision for implementation.
35.     In light of the disturbing population trends, the Government has
recognized that the achievement of a fundamental change in demographic
behavior must be an integral part of overall development strategy and has
embarked on a determined effort to address this complex problem. Drawing
upon past experience, a new "Population Welfare Plan" has been formulated
under the direction of a high-level Population Advisor to the President.
This Plan was formally approved by the Cabinet in November 1980 and is now
in the initial stages of implementation.
The 1981-84 Population Welfare Plan
36.     The 1981-84 Population Welfare Plan is a comprehensive program
focusing on behavioral changes that would establish a small family norm
within a socio-cultural framework acceptable in Pakistan. The approach
incorporated in the Plan is multisectoral, calling for the active par-
ticipation of all relevant government departments and public institutions
in implementing services and education and motivation programs. The Plan
aims to mobilize community involvement through local leadership to make the
overall program more responsive to local needs and enhance its accept-
ability. The Plan avoids earlier over-optimistic objectives of rapid
fertility declines; the main objectives for the period 1981-84 are to
increase the percentage of current users of family planning methods from 6%
to 14% and to decrease the crude birth rate from approximately 42 to 37.5
per 1,000. This, combined with an expected decrease in the crude mortality



-1 1-
rate from 13 to 10.5 per 1,000, would produce a fall in the rate of popula-
tion growth to 2.7% by 1984.
37.     The composition of the Plan takes into account the principal les-
sons learnt over the last 20 years, namely:
(a) availability of service is important but will not by itself
appreciably increase contraceptive use;
(b) service must be of good quality and easily accessible;
(c) service providers should be skilled communicators;
(d) local communities should be directly involved in program deci-
sions;
(e) even a well-designed plan will not succeed if implementation
is not properly managed; and
(f) resources of all government departments and public and private
organizations must be directed toward Plan objectives.
38.     The Plan consists of a core program comprising five essential
sub-programs for the development of: (a) Family Welfare Centers (FWC); (b)
Reproductive Health Services Centers (RHS); (c) Information, Education and
Communication (IEC); (d) Family Welfare Manpower (clinical training); and
(e) Program Training (non-clinical). The components of the core program
are outlined in paragraphs 43-47 below.
39.     Several specific projects complete the Plan.  These projects have
been selected for their contribution to the Plan's goals and for their
complementarity to the core program. Under these projects, responsible
parenthood concepts and family planning services will be incorporated into
regular activities of the provincial health and other departments as well
as large public sector organizations. Other projects include a National
Population Education Program to introduce population education concepts
into the school system; support for activities of non-governmental
organizations; a social marketing scheme for distribution of contracep-
tives; and the involvement of "hakims" (traditional medical practitioners)
in the provision of family planning advice and services.
Organizational Structure
40.     Policy formulation, periodic program reviews and overall coordina-
tion for the Population Welfare Plan are carried out by the National Coun-
cil for Population Welfare Planning, chaired by the President of Pakistan,
with the Population Welfare Division acting as secretariat. The Population
Welfare Division has been transferred from the Ministry of Health to the



-12-
Ministry of Planning and Development in order to provide a central focal
point for program planning and for the coordination of the population
activities of several government departments and public and private sector
institutions. The Population Welfare Division has overall responsibility
for the core program as well as the support functions of evaluation and
logistics of supplies and distribution. In addition to these functions,
the Population Welfare Division has responsibility for planning and super-
vising the delivery of family planning services, together with the provi-
sion of maternal and child health care, through some 1,000 Family Welfare
Centers (FWCs) under the Provincial Directors General. Staff for the
program has been retrained and pruned and has been strengthened by
qualified recruits. The total number of staff has been reduced from 16,000
to 8,300; the bulk of thie reduction entailed dismissal of field motivators,
many of whom were ill-suited for field work or had become redundant.
41.     Provincial responsibility for implementation is exercised by the
relevant Provincial Director General, Population Welfare, who will serve as
ex-officio Secretary of Population directly under the Provincial Chief
Secretary and the Additional Chief Secretary. Each province has estab-
lished a Provincial Council for Population Welfare Planning chaired either
by the Governor, the Chief Secretary or the Additional Chief Secretary and
including as members the Ministers/Secretaries of the various sectors; the
Councils will monitor progress made by each participating department in
meeting population program objectives.
42.     Overall responsibility for plan activities at tle district level
rests with the District Population Welfare Officer (DPWO) and his staff,
with the FWCs and local Advisory Management Committees providing the focal
point for TEC, service delivery and voluntary activities. The district
infrastructure also includes one or more Reproductive Health Services
Centers (see below). In coordinating various departments and organizations
and in obtaining community cooperation, the DPWO is assisted by a District
Population Welfare Planning Committee chaired by the Chairman of the Dis-
trict Council.
The Core Program
43.     Family Welfare Centers:  some 1,000 existing family planning
clinics are being converted into Family Welfare Centers to provide family
planning services (FP), maternal and child health care (MCH), motiva-
tionL/education, and community development activities. About 250 new FWCs
are to be created during the 1981-84 Plan period to improve population
coverage; all centers will use rented facilities. Each center is expected
to offer population welfare program activities to some 20,000 persons. The
Population Welfare Division will be responsible at the Federal level for
the overall planning, funding and supervision of the development of the
FWCs; the Provincial Directors General of Population Welfare will be
responsible for implementation. An Advisory Management Committee, selected



-13-
from the local community, will help organize developmental activities and
assist in selection and recruitment of volunteers.
44.     Reproductive Health Services:  gynecological and obstetric services
and contraceptive surgery will be offered in about 100 government and
public sector institutions hospitals, as well as in medical colleges and
private hospitals. Provincial health departments will be responsible for
the formulation, coordination, implementation and evaluation of RHS
activities. The Technical Directorate of the Population Welfare Division
will issi,e guidelines to associated RHS centers run by non-government
organizations.
45.     Information, Education and Communication:  a new organizational
structure will be created to carry out a renewed and reorganized IEC effort
using a blend of channels from face-to-face contacts to mass media. The
objectives are to change the image of the population program; reach politi-
cal, religious and other leaders and gain their support; and provide com-
munication training and guidance to frontline workers. In the initial
stages, IEC activities will concentrate on the promotion of themes
associated with a small family norm and birth spacing.
46.     Family Welfare Manpower Development:  basic in-service auxiliary
level clinical training for the population program is administered by the
Population Welfare Division-s Directorate of Clinical Training, located in
Karachi and operating through 12 Regional Training Institutes (RTIs). This
program, established in the late 1960s, has functioned on a relatively
continuous basis even during earlier periods of program interruption. The
present cadre of family planning workers are being retrained to become
Family Welfare Workers with added responsibilities for birth deliveries and
other MCH services. With these additions to their basic training they will
become equivalent to paramedical auxiliary personnel of provincial health
departments.
47.     Program Training:  a new Directorate of Program Training and Educa-
tion, which will complement the functions of the Directorate of Clinical
Training, has been created in the Population Welfare Division, and Popula-
tion Welfare Training Institutes with non-clinical   a 7 , finctions are
being established in the provinces to train motivation/education personnel
and volunteers for outreach work.
Support Functions
48.     Evaluation and logistics of supplies and distribution functions
will be carried out by the Population Welfare Division. For evaluation, a
Population Development Center has been established by consolidating exist-
ing units of data processing, surveys, statistics and research. Logistics
of supplies and distribution are centralized in the Supplies and Services



-14-
Directorate in Islamabad, with a central warehouse in Karachi. Biomedical
research is conducted by the National Institute of Technical Research which
has operated since 1970.
Sector Coordination
49.     In the early 1960s, the provision of family planning services was
the responsibility of government health outlets; this approach was replaced
in the mid-sixties by the establishment of separate family planning clinics
under the Ministry of Health. With the transfer of the Population Welfare
Division from the Health Ministry to the Planning and Development Division
(see paragraph 40 above), these family planning clinics have become the
basis for the proposed new Family Welfare Center (FWC) network.  In decid-
ing that placing the FWCs under the health sector would not be in the best
interests of renewed efforts to lower fertility at this stage, the Govern-
ment was influenced by the fact that the national and provincial health
organizations are fully occupied at present with managing and strengthening
the health system; to impose additional responsibilities on them at this
time was thought to be unwise. At the same time, the Government has recog-
nized that the success of the population program will require the full
support of health professionals, in both the public and private sectors, as
well as the use of health outlets to supplement the FWC network in provid-
ing family planning services.
50.     Under the new Plan, several measures have been taken to foster
cooperation and coordination between the Ministry of Health and the Popula-
tion Welfare Division.  Officials of health departments will be represented
on all national, provincial and district population committees. In the
provinces, the Directors General, Population Welfare, are developing, in
close conjunction with the health departments, plans of action to initiate
family planning services and education/motivation in health outlets. In
addition, several projects are being developed by the Population Welfare
Division to involve private doctors in family planning work as part of
their regular practices in order to increase the medical profession's
support for the population program.
51.     The Regional Training Institutes (RTIs) administered by the Popula-
tion Welfare Division's Directorate of Clinical Training are providing
training in family planning to doctors and health auxiliaries in the health
departments; they also plan to develop courses for trainers so that the
health departments can eventually handle family planning training for their
own staffs. Doctors at government hospitals are being trained at the
Population Welfare Division's Reproductive Health Services centers in
surgical contraceptive techniques. At the same time, the Ministry of
Health's Schools of Public Health are assisting in training Family Welfare
Workers in maternal child health care, including deliveries; while the
Pakistan Nursing Council has agreed to give the same basic training to
clinical auxiliary staff from the health and population organizations to



-15-
ensure compatibility and transferability of staff in and between the sec-
tors. These cooperative measures would facilitate an integration of family
planning and general health services at a later date if deemed appropriate.
External Assistance for Population Planning
52.     In recent years, UNFPA has been the only significant donor to the
population program in Pakistan; the new Population Welfare Plan, however,
has generated renewed interest among donors.  USAID, the major donor for
population programs in the 1960s and early 1970s, has approved a US$25.6
million grant and the equivalent of approximately US$2 million in counter-
part local currency for management information and research, logistics, and
contraceptive supplies.  UNFPA, which provided about US$3 million between
1978 and 1981, has programmed about US$9.5 million for 1982-85 for RHS
(sterilizations), clinical training, assistance to non-governmental
organizations, involvement of "hakims" and technical assistance. UNICEF
and WHO are assisting in research and technical consultants with about
US$0.75 million in 1982; the Asian Development Bank has included US$500,000
in a health project to renovate RHS facilities and provide equipment; and
a social marketing scheme is being developed by the Family Planning
Association of Pakistan (FPAP) with possible assistance from an interna-
tional non-governmental organization. In addition to their participation
in the proposed project, the United Kingdom is considering a grant of up to
US$2.0 million for population centers in Universities, technical assis-
tance, and equipment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.     The proposed project was prepared by the Population Welfare Divi-
sion, Government of Pakistan, with consultants and workshops financed by a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance; it was appraised in May/June
1982. Negotiations took place in Washington from February 24-March 2,
1983; the Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. S.K. tIahmud, Additional
Secretary Incharge, Population Welfare Division. Attached as Annex III is
a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. The Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Pakistan - Population Project" (No. 4166-PAK dated April 1, 1983) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives, Design and Description
54.     The proposed project has been designed to assist the Government in
implementing its new Population Welfare Plan and in establishing a sound
basis for a sustained and effective population planning effort over the
longer term. The project endeavors to avoid overtaxing the recently
restructured organizational structure for population planning while
initiating a number of important measures to strengthen it. The project



-16-
concentrates on software aspects of the Population Plan; there is no new
construction. The components included in the project would complement
assistance from other donors.
55.     The project would consist of three national components focused on
the critical areas of training and motivation; and two regional components
aimed at establishing a comprehensive package of activities in 13 major
districts serving about 20 million people. The national and regional
components of the project are as follows:
I. National Components
(a) Program Training (non-clinical): Establishment of two Population
Welfare Training Institutes, and support for training programs
through provision of vehicles, equipment, fellowships and
operating costs.
(b) Information, Education and Communication (IEC): Establishment
of a national IEC organization, including provision of vehicles,
equipment and production of printed/audio-visual materials; and
support for fellowships, consulting services, seminars and
operating costs.
(c) Population Education: Strengthening and expanding population
education in the formal school system through teacher training;
preparation of instructional materials; provision of audio-visual
equipment; and support for consulting services, teachers'
seminars, correspondence courses and operating costs.
In addition, the proposed project would support: (a) monitoring and
evaluation; (b) funding for innovative activities; and (c) preparation of a
mid-censal survey and of future population projects.
II. Regional Components
(a) Family Welfare Centers (FWCs): Conversion of about 250 existing
single purpose family planning clinics into FWCs, and establish-
ment of some 42 new FWCs, by providing equipment, materials and
vehicles; consultant services; seed money for community
activities; and operating costs.
(b) Family Planning Service Outlets: The establishment of family
planning services in about 700 existing health outlets/facilities
in provincial government departments and some 50 public sector
organizations, through provision of equipment, materials and
-  vehicles; and support for training and operating costs.
Further details of project components are given below (paragraphs 57-75).



-17-
Project Implementation
56.     Overall responsibility for implementation of the proposed project
would rest with the Population Welfare Division in the Ministry of Planning
and Development. A Project Administration Cell (PAC) has been established
in the Population Welfare Division, with the Joint Secretary, Planning, as
Project Coordinator. The PAC would handle day-to-day administrative mat-
ters; liaise with relevant provincial authorities regarding accounting
requirements, disbursements and staff/consultant recruitment; compile
quarterly project progress reports; and submit project accounts and audit
reports to the Association. In addition, the PAC would be responsible for
administering the preparation of future population projects. The Govern-
ment would ensure that the PAC is maintained with sufficient qualified
staff to carry out its functions and duties (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
National Components
57.     Program Training (non-clinical).  Two Population Welfare Training
Institutes (PWTIs) would be established under the Directorate of Program
Training and Education in the Population Welfare Division--one in Lahore
(Punjab) with staff in Peshawar to cover NWFP, and one in Karachi (Sind)
with staff in Quetta to train workers in Baluchistan. The Directorate
would be responsible for undertaking and/or assigning to the Institutes the
development of course curricula, teaching aids and training manuals, and a
program of continued education for trainers and fieldworkers, including a
master trainers program. All Institutes would function in rented build-
ings. Although there is a clear need to provide permanent facilities for
all training activities of the population program in the medium term, the
immediate priority is to build up the training organization.
58.     Each Institute would perform the following principal functions:
(a) develop and update annual regional training plans and assist District
Officers in preparing local training plans; (b) develop curricula,
materials and manuals for various courses to be given either by PWTI staff,
District Officers, or trainers of other government departments and institu-
tions; (c) train trainers and offer them support, technical assistance and
monitoring; (d) define and manage contracts with consultants, firms and
private organizations to assist PWTIs in their various tasks; (e) design
and conduct selective orientation sessions on the population welfare
program; (f) periodically evaluate all training programs and revise cur-
ricula as necessary; and (g) identify needs for training in management,
jointly with the management of the Population Welfare Division, and conduct
and/or arrange for such training.



-18-
59.     Progress of this component would be evaluated by measurement of
accomplishments in the training process; indicators would include recruit--
ment of the full complement of training staff by the end of the first year
of project implementation, and development and approval of the annual
training plans. About 12 man-months of consultancies are included in the
project to assist managers of PWTIs and, at provincial arl(l district levels,
organize implementation of training programs by preparing detailed
workplans. The Government would: (a) by September 1, 1983, fill with
qualified staff all teaching positions in the two PWTIs; and (b) cause the
PWTIs to produce annual national and district training plans, and the
Population Welfare Division to review and approve such plans by May 1 of
each year beginning May 1, 1983 (Sections 3.05(e) and 3.09 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
60.     Information, Education and Communications (IEC).  The IEC strategy
consists of identifying and addressing specific target audiences through a
variety of channels, with the principal objective of encouraging the adop-
tion of a small family norm and removing resistance to contraceptive use.
The preferred form for direct family planning motivation would be
individual or group discussion in which the counisellors would be knowledge-
able members of the community (such as satisfied acceptors and service
providers). Community participation would be encouraged. Interpersonal
communication and group discussions would be assisted by appropriate
audio-visual (AV) equipment, publicity and educational materials. Regular
evaluation and revision of TEC materials would be undertaken. The project
would also support seminars designed to inform and elicit support for the
program among religious leaders, indigenous entertainers and officials of
other government departments and groups. Radio, which reaches a wide
audience in Pakistan, would be used on a selective basis to broadcast
popular drama with population welfare content, programs about FWC
activities and similar education activities.
61.     An organization would be established under a new Directorate of
Communication and Production (C&P) in the Population Welfare Division to
design, implement and evaluate IEC programs and to provide training, super-
vision, manuals and educational materials to workers and volunteers. The
C&P Directorate would be supported by about 48 man-months of consultant
services for preparation of operational plans and management, material
design and production, mass media planning and programming and communica-
tion training. The Government would: (a) by September 1, 1983, appoint an
IEC training/planning consultant and an IEC materials design and production
consultant; and (b) by December 1, 1983, employ a Director and a Deputy
Director for the IEC Unit in the C&P Directorate whose qualifications and
experience would be acceptable to the Association, and appoint qualified
staff to fill about 15 national, 15 provincial and 130 district level new
IEC positions (Sections 3.02 and 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



-19 -
62.     Population Education.  The population education program currently
in existence in the formal school system would be reinforced to reach about
2.2 million students at intermediate and secondary levels. The project
would train some 46,000 teachers and prepare instructional materials com-
prising teachers' guides, training manuals and audio-visual kits.
63.     At present, population education functions are performed by a
subject specialist in the Population Welfare Division.  To carry out the
proposed expanded program the Government would: (a) by September 1, 1983,
employ an instructor for the Population Welfare Division's Directorate of
Program Training and Education; (b) by January 1, 1984, formalize in writ-
ing an understanding between the Ministry of Education and the Population
Welfare Division outlining an overall plan for population education includ-
ing roles and responsibilities and budget provisions; and (c) by July 1,
1984, establish, in the Ministry of Education, a population education cell
with qualified staff including a population education specialist (Sections
3.05(a), 3.06 and 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Regional Components
64.     The regional components of the proposed project would aim to reach
about 20 million people in 13 districts. Of these districts, three in
Karachi (Sind) and one in Punjab have high population density and include
towns and cities where public response to planned parenthood concepts may
be more readily forthcoming than in the rest of the country. Four agricul-
tural districts in Sind and Punjab have been selected to take advantage of
other ongoing community development activities and to test the effective-
ness of simultaneous inputs of community development and population
activities among low literacy, agricultural populations. Five districts in
NWFP and Baluchistan have been included to make a beginning with new
program activities in all provinces.
65,     Familv Welfare Centers.  The project would assist in conversion of
about 250 clinics remaining from the old population program into
FP/MCH/community development centers; it would also assist in the estab-
lishment of 42 new FWCs in locations selected for their easy access and
complementarity with other health outlets. Each center would be supervised
by a part-time Family Welfare Counsellor and run by a full-time staff of
five comprising a Family Welfare Worker (FWW), one male and one female
Family Welfare Assistant (FWA) and two support staff members. The FW
Counsellors and FWWs are already being trained in deliveries and other MCH
services through the UNFPA-assisted clinical training program. The FWWs
would provide health education and antenatal, delivery and post-natal care
to mothers; give family planning advice and distribute contraceptives; and
provide pediatric care. The FWAs, who would receive training under the
proposed project, would assist in clinical work as well as undertake educa-
tional, promotional and developmental activities in the center and in the



-20-
community. Since workloads in the centers may vary according to acces-
sibility and utilization, provision is made in the proposed project for
the creation of up to 80 additional positions for FWWs and FWAs in FY85.
By July 1, 1984, the Population Welfare Division would submit to the
Association, for review and comment, a report on the needs (if any) for
varying staffing patterns in the FWCs and by December 1, 1984, take steps
to implement recommendations satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.05(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.     The quality of clinical work in the FWCs would be promoted through
the use of doctors, on part-time contracts, as service providers and/or
consultants. Wherever possible, lady doctors would be engaged for these
services; in Karachi, where a number of lady doctors are available, they
would work two to three days a month in each urban center on a regularly
programmed schedule.  Another special feature for the Karachi FWCs would be
a scheme, currently being explored, whereby private associations would run
a number of centers which would be jointly funded by the Government and
the private sector. In selected FWCs, pediatricians would be used as
consultants on child care.
67.     Each center would keep a list of nearby government and private
hospitals, health centers and outpatient facilities. The FWWs and FW
Counsellors would, as necessary, refer clients to an appropriate medical
center and arrange required transportation. General administrative super-
vision of the FWCs would rest with the District Population Welfare Office,
which would be responsible for supply/distribution of materials, drugs and
contraceptives to the centers, and for IEC-related activities.
68.     Members of the local community would be selected to form an
Advisory Management Committee (AMC) for each FWC. The AMC would: (a)
assist, as necessary, in obtaining and maintaining physical facilities for
the FWC; (b) act as a channel for identifying community needs and work out
a community activity plan; (c) seek funding and mobilize community resour-
ces; (d) establish links with relevant government departments; and (e)
recruit community volunteers to function as outreach/IEC workers. The
community volunteers would be trained by FWC staff with the assistance of
district IEC staff. Their specific tasks would include informing families
in the community about the FWC services and activities and encouraging them
to use the centers; educating the community in better living conditions,
advisable health practices and prevention of childhood diseases; explaining
the advantages of family planning; and distribution of non-clinical con-
traceptives.
69.     In addition to its other functions, FWC staff would be responsible
for establishing an appropriate program for women's meetings at the centers
and for stimulating the AMC in undertaking skill development and
income-generating projects for women. Seed funds would be made available
for such activities. The Population Welfare Division is finalizing a



-21-
manual which would provide guidelines for operation of FWCs, including use
of seed funds, and would be required to circulate it to all provincial and
district population offices by December 1, 1983 (Section 3.05(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
70.     Family Planning Service Outlets.  The proposed project would assist
in introducing family planning services and education/motivation in about
700 health facilities of several provincial government departments and
local bodies. The Regional Training Institutes (paragraphs 46 and 51)
would give training in family planning to six trainers from participating
departments who in turn would hold training courses for staff of their
respective organizations. Materials and equipment would be provided by the
Population Welfare Division to the participating health outlets. The
departments would also be given an initial supply of contraceptives; funds
obtained from their sale would be used for subsequent contraceptive pur-
chases. The provincial Directors General, Population, would have overall
responsibility for this sub-component, which would be implemented by the
various provincial departments concerned.
71.     In addition, major public sector institutionsl/ would provide
family planning services and information/education to their employees and
families through some 50 health outlets run by these institutions in the
project area districts. Training would be given by the RTIs to one trainer
from each of the six organizations so that they can provide staff in these
institutions with instruction in the clinical aspects of family planning
and in motivation/education. The project would provide the institutions
with materials and assistance in IEC activities; contraceptives would be
purchased from the Population Welfare Division. Each institution would
establish a Population Project Committee to undertake planning, monitoring
and evaluation of their family planning operations. The Population Welfare
Division, assisted by the provincial population directorates, would have
overall responsibility for implementation of this sub-component. The
provincial population welfare directorates would prepare annual plans of
action for the operation of family planning activities in health facilities
and, by July 1 of each year, beginning in 1983, reach agreement on these
plans with participating provincial governments/local bodies and public
sector institutions (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
1/ The institutions are: Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA),
Fauji Foundation, the Armed Forces, Pakistan Railways, Pakistan Inter-
national Airlines, and Pakistan Steel Mills.



-22-
Innovative Activities
72.     The Government-s new Population Welfare Plan is based on strategies
that may need adjustments and innovations as the Plan is implemented; the
proposed project includes UK Grant funds for such activities. At the
request of the UK, the Government would be required to submit to both the
UK and the Association, for joint appraisal, a detailed proposal, including
a plan of operation and budget requirements, for each proposed innovative
activity.
Training, Studies and Technical Assistance
73.     Funds for training, studies and technical assistance would be
provided as necessary under each of the individual project components. The
project includes some 240 man-months of local and 52 man-months of foreign
consultant services for the national and regional components.
Monitoring and Evaluation
74.     The project would be continuously monitored and evaluated in order
to assess: (a) progress achieved in building up the organizational struc-
ture of the program; and (b) program impact in terms of increased awareness
of available services, use of these services and decreases in fertility.
The studies, surveys and schemes included in the proposed project would
complement other planned activities outside the project in the areas of
information and research to be undertaken by the Government and USAID;
UJSAIT) assistance would include strengthening the statistical and research
capabilities of the Population Welfare Division through consolidation of
existing research and statistical staff into a newly established Population
Development Center (PDC).
75.     Evaluation under the proposed project would be the responsibility
of the PDC, which would be assisted by local and international institutions
and consultants as required. In addition to detailed assessments of
various project components, the project includes funds for preparatory work
on a mid-censal demographic survey.
Status of Project Preparation
76.     Project preparation is progressing satisfactorily, with funding for
consultants being provided from a PPF advance of US$290,000. Activities
undertaken to date include a workshop on the functional analysis of FWCs;
course design for the Population Welfare Training Institutes; a Master
Trainers Workshop; curriculum development for population education; orien-
tation sessions for District Population Welfare Officers; and initial
development of lEC materials. In addition, district AMCs are being formed,
staff training programs initiated in all four provinces, and cujrricula and
teaching aids are being developed for several priority training courses.



-23-
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
77.     Total project costs, including contingencies, taxes and duties, are
estimated at US$28.2 million equivalent. Taxes and duties amount to about
US$1.2 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.9
million. Detailed cost estimates are shown in the Credit and Project
Summary. Base costs have been calculated on estimated May 1982 prices.
The average man-month cost for local consultants is US$785 and for foreign
consultants US$12,400 (including allowances and overheads). Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 5% of base costs for both equipment
and vehicles as well as their operation. Price contingencies for foreign
expenditures have been estimated at 8% for FY83, declining to 7% by FY86;
on local costs, 8.5% has been allowed for-FY83, declining to 7% in FY86.
78.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$18 million would finance about 66% of
total project costs (net of taxes and duties) and would cover 36% of for-
eign exchange costs and 75% of local costs. Parallel financing would be
provided by USAID of US$3.4 million for contraceptives (about 12% of total
project costs); sufficient supplies of contraceptives have already been
made available for at least the first year of the project. The United
Kingdom is expected to make a grant of up to US$2.7 million equivalent for
evaluation and studies; innovative activities; vehicles; and seed funds
(about 10% of total project costs). The remaining project costs of US$4.1
million (about 15% of total costs, including taxes and duties) would be
financed by the Government through budgetary allocations. Approval of the
PC-i documents for the project by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC),l/ or the appropriate approving authority, would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The fulfillment of all conditions nrecedent
to the effectiveness of the UK Grant document would be a further condition
of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
79.     Equipment, furniture and materials to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit would be grouped to the extent possible to attract
competitive bidding. Contracts of US$30,000 and above would be let on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines; contracts below US$30,000 but above US$5,000 equivalent,
in aggregate not exceeding US$150,000 equivalent, may be procured tlhrough
1/ A PC--l (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
appraisal document necessary for government approval procedures.



-24-
local competitive bidding procedures. Small items of equipment and furni-
ture, estimated to cost not more than US$5,000 each up to an aggregate of
US$50,000, would be purchased by local shopping for which at least three
price quotations would be obtained. Local manufacturers participating in
ICB would be accorded a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevail-
ing import duty, whichever is lower.
80.     It would not be practicable to let refurbishing of service and
training facilities under one contract since the facilities are small and
scattered. Accordingly, these contracts would be let through local bidding
proced,ures on the basis of at least three price quotations. For procure-
ment of medicines and medical supplies, the local procedures which have
been followed for several years and found satisfactory to the Association,
would be used. Procurement of contraceptives to be financed by USAID, and
all items to be financed through the UK Grant, would be in accordance with
the relevant agencies- procedures and practices.
81.     Responsibility for procurement and distribution of goods, equipment
and materials rests with the Population Welfare Division's Supplies and
Services Directorate (SSD) in Islamabad and the Central Warehouse and
Supplies Office in Karachi. To date, SSD's procurement experience has in
the main been confined to acquisition througlh local shopping. Since
procurement under the proposed project would entail ICB as well as local
competitive bidding, the Government would be required to employ sufficient
qualified staff with experience in procurement, logistics and management,
specifically a Director and a Deputy Director, Supplies and Services, in
Islamabad, and a Deputy Director in Karachi (Section 3.05(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
82.     Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would be made for:  (a)
100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported, 100% of the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured, and 75% of local expenditures of
locally procured materials and equipment; (b) 100% of total expenditures
for consultants' services, and preparation of a mid-censal survey and
subsequent projects; (c) 95% of total expenditures for local training and
project administration; and (d) 90% through June 30, 1984, 75% through June
30, 1985, and 55% through June 30, 1986 of operating costs. Disbursements
for items under (a) and (b) would be made against full documentation in
accordance with normal IDA procedures. Reimbursements of items under (c)
and (d) would be made against statements of expenditures; supporting docu-
ments would be retained by the Project Administration Cell (PAC) for IDA
review.
83.     Retroactive financing, to July 1, 1982, in an amount not exceeding
US$1.5 million, is proposed for expenditures related to consultant serv-
ices, training and operating costs. The PPF advance for the project would
be refunded out of the proceeds of the Credit.



Accounts and Audits
84.     The provincial Directors General, Population Welfare, and the
Population Welfare Division-s Directorate of Finance would maintain
separate records for their respective project activities and would have
their accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Copies of the
unaudited accounts would be sent to the Association for review not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, and certified copies of
these audited financial statements would be submitted to the Association no
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
85.     All contraceptives made available through the Population Welfare
Division are sold to acceptors at a nominal price, primarily to reduce
wastage and to increase accuracy in monitoring reporting of new acceptor
and continuation rates. While it is not government policy to recover costs
of' helth services, the Population Welfare Division has recently estab-
lished the practice of charging a small registration fee for maternal and
child health care provided by FWCs. Over the long tenn, total revenues
from patient registration fees might enable each center to recover 30-35%
of annual drug costs.
Benefits and Risks
86.     The proposed project would represent an important step towards
strengthening the organizational structure of the population program in
Pakistan and establishing a viable system to handle fertility reduction
activities as social and 'hrehavioral changes occur and contraception becomes
more generally acceptable. The training and technical assistance com-
ponents of the project, coupled with experience to be gained from implemen-
tation of the physical components, are expected to enhance the capabilities
of the national, provincial and district organizations responsible for
family planning as well as the provision of health services. The direct
benefits of the proposed project would be:
(a) the training of about 60,000 functionaries and volunteers in
delivery of family planning services, and some 45,000 teachers
in population education;
(b) the establishment of family welfare centers and provision of
family planning services, maternal and child health care, and
health education/motivation to some 20 million people in all
four provinces;



-26-
(c) the establishment of appropriate programs for skill develop-
ment and income generating projects for women;
(d)  the encouragement of the adoption of a small family norm and
removal of resistance to contraceptiVe use through the estab-
lishment of a national information, education and cornunica-
tion organization; and
(e) a decrease in infant mortality and total fertility rates
through improved child care and use of contraception.
87.     While it would be highly speculative to translate the intermediate
benefits of increased FP/MCH/IEC services into quantitative effects, it is
estimated that, if the present mix of contraceptive usel/ were to be main-
tained and users of contraceptives were to increase from the current 6% to
14%, the crude birth rate could drop by as much as four points in four
years. The effects on fertility could be increased further, even with
similar overall acceptance rates, if the contraceptive mix among acceptors
were to change so that younger women increased contraceptive continuation
rates for spacing births and relatively lower parity women chose steriliza-
tion.
88.     Project costs per person served as well as per total population are
within a reasonable range in relation to the economic and social benefits
of the proposed project, namely a slowing down of the rate of population
growth. Recent research suggests that the value of a birth prevented in
developing countries is at least double the per capita income, and that any
program costing less than US$300 per birth prevented will yield a sizeable
rate of return. It is estimated that births which would be prevented
during the period 1982/83-1985/86 due to activities under the Population
Plan would cost between US$100 and US$150 each. Overall, the proposed
project would increase recurrent costs at current prices by 12% in 1987
compared to expenditures budgeted in 1981.
89.     The main risks to the project arise from possible administrative
weaknesses and opposition to the population program from various fronts.
Although the project addresses administrative problems, it will take at
least two years to achieve significant results from these organizational
efforts. The problem of opposition to the program will be tackled by
initially targeting services to receptive clients; by placing the program
in an appropriate socio-cultural context and broadening its appeal by
including services in acute public demand, such as maternal and child
1/ IUD-16%; Oral contraceptives-15%; Condoms-60%; Sterilization-5%;
Others-4%.



-27-
health care; and by endeavoring to gain support for the program's objec-
tives through involvement of political and religious leaders, other
influential groups, the private sector, and local communities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special condi-
tions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional
conditions of effectiveness include the approval of the PC-1 documents for
the project by ECNEC, or the appropriate approving authority, and the
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the UK Grant
document (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
91.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
92.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 7, 1983
Washington D.C.



ANNEX I
- 28 -
28    -                     ~~~~Page  I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AV£RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                       PAXISAN                              -  MST RECENT ESTINATEAS
TOTAL            803.9                                 MOST RAECENT          LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOnE
AGRICULTURAL     249.9               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA 4 PACIFIC        ASIA 4 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   70.0       130.0      300.0              261.4                    *90.1
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)      132.4       190.6     209.2               448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0      60449.0  82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1         24.9      28.2                17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      134.5
STATIONARY Por`LATION (MILLIONS)                        308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        57.0        75.2      99.2               158.1                    255.9
PER SU. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANL    200.4        248.9     316.9               355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        46.3      46.5                36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          51.8        5U.5      50.7                59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         3.2       2.8                 3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.8       3.1                 2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               4.6         4.0       4.3                 3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.3        47.4      43.6                29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.3          19.9       16.0               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.7         3.5        3.0                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)    ..           ..       6.07%              19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        102.0     101.0               108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
lEQUIREIENTS)                    87.8        97.1      98.8/d              97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.1        59.8      62.871              56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL ANDI) PULSE      23.3        20.1      19.971              20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.4        21.5       17.8               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.3          46.2      49.8                57.3                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           161.5       143.0     125.5                89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0      29.0                32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                ..        77.0      60.0                70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ..         4.0      17.0                22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCIETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         3.0        6.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                          12.0      21.0                72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/. f          3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.8      13306.071 10030.37'            4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1794.5      1860.1    1903.4/. f          1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                             506.8       648.1     712 9               301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..     12478.5   11870.17.?           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3
U)IBAN                              5.6         5.5
RURAL                               5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1         2.8/
URBAN                               3.1         2.7
IURAL                               3.1         2.          .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..        17.9         ..
URBAN                                          54.4L.
RURAL                                *          4.9 t*



- 29 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                  Pzge  2
PAKIST i-5CIAL  INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAXISIALN                         REFERENCE CROUPS (MECHTEDAl~AE
PAKISIAN                     ~~~~~- MOST RECENT ESTIKATE  ~AGE
11 OST RECENT          LCW INCOME   E        MIDDLE INCo?a
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 4 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRARY:        TOTAL                  30.0         44.0       56.0                 97.4                   96.2
MALE                   46.0         62.0       81.0                101.0                  99.8
FEMALE                 13.0         24.0       31.0                 87.8                  92.1
SECONDARY,   TOTAL                   11.0         14.0       16.0                 53.0                   37.6
MALE                   18.0         22.0       24.0                 63.8                  41.1
FEKALE                  3.0          6.0        8.0                 41.3                  34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0              1.5        1.4                  1.7                  20.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              38.6         41.5       40.1                 37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                            24.0         19.8       18.7                 20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY LATE (PERCENT)          15.0/h        20.7/i    24.0                  52.1                  73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.5          2.6        2.8/c                1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0         17.1       65.8                 35.4                 116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                         1.6        9.4                  3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    13.2                    13.7                  16.4                  53.7
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8              3.0/L      2.4                  3.6                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FOR_E (THOUSANDS)    14447.7         17364.1   22717.1
FEYSALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3       10.2                 29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                61.0         59.0       57.0                 70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   18.0         19.0       20.0                 15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.5          28.7       27.7                 40.0                  38.5
MALE                                   55.2          50.4      47.2                  51.8                  50.5
FEhALE                                  5.7           5.5        5.9                 23.8                  26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.5          1.7        1.8                  1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOM
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k          17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37E          61.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4W            8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57k          20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY lNCOHI
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                             68.0/S   176.0                 133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                             4 47. 0r    122.0              111.5                  155.1
ESTIDATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                             34.0/1    88.0                                        178.2
RURAL                                             22.07I    58 O                                        164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   .         *2.0/i    32.0                  63.8                   2464
RUAL                                   .          43.071    29.0                  51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not pplicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted aritluetic means.  Coverage of couutries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherisas  Doted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; I/  1976; /f RaSgitered. not all practicing in the country; /I 1973;
Lb 1967i /I 1977' LIt 19617 /k 1964.
may, 1982



- 30-ANNEX I
Page 3
MIft Ctt St or so0(01. IMCICATOI
tae: Acrtyte  our   Ira   to   toolO    'OO     J"udgA  ofafu   aieiasi    94r  ite.I    ot                               0b   ot.t blatItI'--t  -t h  IIser-
-,ILua Iry o.p- ct  hat asse, of ola lak ofNfuidaistto   t tiers Idoj cecai   stb   i be                            otot,t             otiob    as    h                .  non
scot  a ocrorciens.  aof oo oa   be   e 10  mlac100arg.o   n  I"cdit.to  Io  -cotbe.  TM-                              nly usaftot to taett   h  eola  or
41 Itbecoor  s-ks ..to.ot tatd tond1..d                                   97    .l                          . - . ho)Itl le-to.)              -                  Puuao    o.)
Tot.  -  old    uns, urIftarottrilar   are   us  lot. art oue..  i   data.                    un~bar.so Loot  tlste   by-eorsot                    -tlro  ltp ttd
(orrop.  ysouos- ske   ar  sotyet  "aodr".    cot ii . folIo., f9t9 dat-                   boLtaiu   tetr              stlrfdtotalstot-  rorrettotmts
by ItlatcopotLao    .aattst;   .....tt  ort_oeallro.....-
CC? P0  CAYITf  lUft) -  S    rtpiaetIcs tCrat-tkteles    u-ts   ce    n   o  tot (sOotd   R bus...                                                o     t- oo   In as Italt
tulare   by sa   roenslor soot asttort  lan  Ot..  lft-ti   acts);tilt.Oct fetat rao.rs  ot perareocy scafad  boapr.rtolso  (ut br
tIte  ad   tAt act-dtta  sasmtsco -  oose  mtisti. mo.) attttoffe  tn-si irILautc
tNl~~~~ C(IISUMPTl. ?El CAYFUacooodptetaaisi-trn5sltte--Ll I.-s    noat-la
tvt'LttOTtV5 MD 01711- i)ulttytcSit.i1                                                                                        id
Too1 st            "Ilato   _idtarItousrs  -     It  -b-, I; lit-1 tAt   n   it                  m        In..c ld      L, f.   -             fL4 ZI
taca-     Oturf..r .Iball    f  .e   ItcthI                                                                          ustcl  fcd-.   '.rsn    ottuo.y  - coa          IutI.adrrl
-tbrPttto   rnsto9otl      uc-o   ra   oit I 9u0uldi toe,                                           a  o9s0ttdld toIafst  of_ a ro    fIrl-ol   teeteIrisn lr
tiffreo   tetntcors  f otattarss sy ofr. oomorabttlrol  aco- And-  Ibetr sat  seals-  P. bore   .t...st                            c  a  eel be....u.. I. .
anogtoonscteu:  tlt,   tftart  flettuta.                                           tbe~~~~b-d -1980b oosa-t;WdossI attoa- purpose.--     .1
totolacito Pooteot oot                                                           -Ooscasrruer o- rstot psrrooo-tot  . oolsr..tot..u.a
idPotuttf.t-oeao         1bIO    - lOOCoetep...atto   roofttl -saebeotoLtt                        so    etrpcoo.rtubo atuulouttcocto
c-tateootatio. btate  ro st, ae oteto  otctstcr  re tottlto  rces-tumtto0s  rosstitaly.   oe)tlogsastue  no-pso.noostro-Tsrsato
Projot tI   paoaset.s cot  trt I toy  OIa   orto ftoste  tasuctoc-futtte  0  grt
uo  1001tO   Oerito   OosttO   rtost                                                     ot-ct ot)te- I tacit."
l.f    I rotueso   loo-) 0! tf       nT~ otrootrrt -t..  at   erolI                                 or   ut0  utdfrtifro    e0  tso   rocsus tee: for
of ooo. omta-       ifuetL.f etIsr Totttocay  ootcor.tsus,cocl                                               .si   ottoosa   Ituotte   arolsr ff .    -oes   a..rrtt
ioOtnuott.setocueufettoelfetuttrteo.eso-btoottIotol-cotsara                                                                    fesleCoctsaoo--drdr
atnsl   ee doto.                                                                         uaoalt  of (2 to if rears of 55;lossotoeouasmae   aaa
P.t        K~I--itd-,scto.loo II      W            ILLoektosta     10btar)of                     tttoterutotloocof ea--dar) -                                   Ioatrs  tt-tot-olsl
too;90  tIIat109tt  . ....t tI'                                                                         ssoyar os-Lto        Lrt..o. ant dseonduto-To    If staeiente  tr
tuio 9 b. t9t0. 0d019tOi data-                                                              Atl   tro    stIerstI-Lisnt   t)o    ll aII  -ed act -Ei.)
Po Cttorte ht taca Ioerboo    - orbt   -  --Ioot-lcoo  rte  o.   f olto Ioo ....             f(t,St!ffTo
Coot. altot   aatr  buottt-nta tIZ   70.        t.e blirtt  net                                                 IIomo  o   u-ao  omea  i  In  Lb.o eightWIIposor    -i- oe  lcoa  basso
porlactor  tit.  of. ond tLt  aa                                                              Ilcat  obla
Crt -Dot Dot d(cL sousot   -  ssldsb   r  ooato   t-tc                                          gatt-tcomeorc   bar cytu -ar  eottsto-   Atc .cicois    o   aI
roettlc I1I01,tl.It   stid  tuth-..botoslsogemot-ut tMdchostofryttatflotluosd
ben oro..)oeeotuocie noict t  t-t Icftcttrosr  ase-yatfitimo                              mos Os    L efat  oairrrotossy tb                                maTasV    o
cIt icy rot.. tsoattyiire-ysar  uarages etdtn1 to 190.  tIlt. c t  llt          nsf    -... oouac      ...esattabeV l-onstnI
Pauto P  artre-ttecor   Ocoootltteosnds  - trus   roeo  o  norioa             i tetloea tt snoaat peotolnl- Treutoes-fo Seatrsst
of  tn t-toto   ottaodrtmtc   fradocliot      aoo   c~a - Ig-enoa)-1.:1   pttlprooso    roa  ols.td t at ocsa I                                                         t reI  o
Paolttot.oetlececosotdoer-mtoaso ArDrist                                                              lotoor.irtysant tryea.rIa            I--   I- Iser5mtatol   scsoasnfet 
lnId.    of   oitdt-bdartl   r _SaeE11 _61 r 9socI-lho0o s- ntd-ooocc WImotot. to                                                                                'bsaeIiottto   ooiotn   ootti)-bts h  anrat  Ito
-rt   -1o tot-.uico"       l   aiaItl-ItC   tote  ofM ar rT.iana                                 CIte tatroa  loetom-a Al.  s   et   Ist                          besaoo
umnotctrra  bumlo.-Cditiesooeoprifc   gou. legIcuFeo..cant   stIe   ttit
tattotal  ne ge Prtuom   setce nI ..liuttltO  - totd , art tWO           d. ts-Fo-Ist l                 -ubor  Itrt f -L.srss I    ot.;t1   t In  etnse.:.IgI. ladle;
quonItidms usedi.Infoo   e  cstg          Mo  tomoi  ur dIario  Ztoo   tttir-                      Asioiritro                   .d  ao   feceto -asts  Ifesr     uo        o
city pto   bea cft odaierto  ant      rat-sertuM,It  ng ..pp,               age                 ILodoLr t .r.t  ..     Labo  fue,   in .   . t. og.   Iromcoo le. snfotsrI
ra    tyt   ffotpota     .csri  oflottade  ctt  sabn-  o-sc  riycac  OO   ooeta   oat.st  artfasle, tue   f-rresm
a.oate    fCI       ga   oftt   eoeo .             afa.,       ga    fanslso                        90  ll    ottd   ti- Tec   o   ase0  t  slnstpotfdc
Crhid  Coo  tuor  tltO t        tif.   sWtm      ua-s   Oesstlbr(no
to o...erot .00                           ..omn .t  r   .uit..ti   mottl   of Isc20od to-----20                                                                       4       "M
rI..t  ros  -nIt                          1960p0 5itnau  o   o.  tilt-t 19- Ind   o   tl  dta  1C   0t1oglt
Cbit fanIst-If La 0- IaeIe  bcsr IS- tooot  deuc-  pe  tInuosnC  I                                            Lenaceooi   teo, t-ittataerny      btte   yrobe
sctm  data; tsnce Iri ..          als    il.tl   n  tint dote-                 "Ici  Ieabtt
tIlT                                                                                             P000010h._9w    17   18   ".  fOttIfL.  de LZto -     .ml1 _I-!   j             .
ofaep  soMattInbcrt;11.11   coottidedust                               ~           ~            licf~.c tt                c   a   u    oo       o)   en-Itctmc
kotas sotafodete  Inoteocf nootarnt -iota. uo.o.  nt nrat    gia    suiicttlty   tenttis  isc  1 oacaurct tt hot-fe-LcIfineoia-    so
la lnreItoa.g obt  to   cra)  uc   resocobi   Iteasaf                                      sffobteblc
satansoprn  Ito tuos tamt 0  sonta  eten    r ocratos  boouoiooioscoatt       8.1(satAt ttattc Pooerfytto,il tco Iff)t per.o.l. II-n.....t.unaf
oniuodO   eio   tbl   esctbeatasofia   ocm-insator.                                        ttetePo"ato  ao tesluta   onoy tt  n tue  f.ccecact)-ucIa
noaocobl  nossnat   uty   la  ob.1-1  doo-coff  en ser     of I-tOo  IoStbl                  arItot-Orcfo  Petln"e2rdrrutec   e    aa
Or   U .'e   t   tno      tcoiaos   a          fcotn   nftbs   O



- 31-                                     ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                ANNUAI RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
USS billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices              31.68      100.0                       3.5               6.3             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14      16.2                     -5.5                5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70      11.7                     -2.1                8.2            8.0
Current Account Balance           -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                      -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added          Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    7    US$ million           ITSS million    7
Agriculture                       7,825       29         13.5       51          580        58
Industry                          6,827       26          5.2       20        1,313       131
Services                         12,053       45          7.9       29        1,526       152
Total/Average                  26,705      100         26.6      100        1,004       10O
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                Central Government
(Rs billion)             7 of GDP                (Rs billion)            % of GDP
1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981-82          1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                    51.2           15.9           15.8                39.0          12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures               44.4           13.8           14.1                34.1          10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8           2.1            1.7                 4.9           1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures                 27.0           8.4            9.3                21.2           6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3           2.0            2.8                 6.3           2.0             2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Ouasi Money                         33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5     90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            17.5      22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1     48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7     50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Ouasi Money as % GDP                 29.5     31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0     38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70=100)          211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    35R.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                          23.6       8.6     11.3       6.3       6.7       9.3      13.3     11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6      25.6      11.6     12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         26.3      17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6     18.5      16.0      20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b  Provisional
February 1983



ANNEX I
- 32 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79   1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                           US$ million           x
Exports of Goods, NFS                1,404     1,651     2,107      2,955     3,461         2,966         Raw Cotton                        260.5            11.5
Imports of Goods, IFS                2,877     3,297     4,485      5,709     6,466         6,613         Cotton Yarn                       181.3            8.0
Cotton Cloth                     230.4            10.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)         -1,473    -1,646    -2,378    -2,754    -3,005          -3,847         Rice                              382.7           17.4
All Other Commodities          1,196.9            52.9
Interest Payments                     -172      -183      -261       -285      -357          -453           Total                         2,261.8          100.0
Workers' Remittances                   578     1,166      1,395     1,748     2,097         2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)             15        62        134       151        274           345                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                           ..         ..        ..         ..        .
US$ million
Balance on Current Account         -1,052       -601    -1,110   -1,140        -991        -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment                                     .         ..        ..            ..        Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e                      ..
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                        961       841       813      1,134       956         1,102           Total Outstanding and Disbursed            8,813.9
Amortization                        -175      -122      -235       -310      -516          -492
DEBT SE1RVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                           786        719       578        824       440           610                                                     Percentage
Transactions with IMF/b                 44         41       -14        78        315           358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed              12.2
Other Items n.e.i. /c                   24        163       238       600        527           364        Non-guaranteed Private Debt                       ..
Increase in Reserves (-)               198      -322        308      -362      -291            198          Total                                         12.2
Gross Reserves (year end)/d            372       694        386       748      1,039           841        IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
IBR.D    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                      1.6       1.7        1.8       1.8        1.8          1.8         Outstanding and Disbursed                310.1   908.8
Undisbursed                              32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including U'ndisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                      413       497        539     1,237     1,602         1,683
Petroleum Exports                       27        63         61       178        160           185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11, 1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973            Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982          January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US1   = Rs 4.7619               US$ = Rs 11.00                      US$ - Rs 9.90                         US$ = Rs 11.46
Rsl = US$0.2100                 Rsl = US$0.0909                     Rsl = USS0.1010                       Rs  = 0.087
/a  Government estimate.
/b  Including Trust Fund.
/c  Including net short-term  borrowing and errors and omissions.
7J  Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e  Private debt is negligible.
If  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
/g  Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                      (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                    Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                 Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Eighty-four loans and credits fully disbursed /a           635.8            720.7/e
1107       1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                   53.0            --        0.7
1208T      1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                      --    32.0      --        1.6
620        1976   Seed Project                                               23.0    6.5
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply                --               26.6    4.6
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)          --               14.0    6.7
1366T      1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)            --    10.0      --        9.3
1372)      1977   Railways                                  35.0                      1.0
684 )      1977   Railways                                  --               25.0    1.1
678        1977   Third Education                           --               15.0    7.0
751        1977   Hill Farming Development                  --                3.0    1.6
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation            --               70.0   68.8
755        1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment            --                1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                 --               12.5    7.2
846        1978   Fauji Fertilizer                          --               55.0    3.4
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development                --               30.0    0.9
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                    60.0   58.5
892        1979   Primary Education                         --               10.0    8.3
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension               --                9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)           --               30.0   10.8
968        1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                       --               45.0   36.6
974        1980   Third Highway                             --               50.0   39.7
1019       1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)            --              40.0   16.9
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                        --              25.0   24.8
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                           --               30.0   29.9
11577w    1981   Grain Storage                              --               32.0   32.0
11587T    1981   Agrictultural Research                     --               24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                   --              41.0   38.8
11867d    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)           --              30.0   30.0
2122       1982   Telecommunication IV                      40.0            --      40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                     60.0             --      59.1
2172/f    1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                  --      38.5
12397w /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                    40.0   40.0
1243/b Td 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.            --               14.0   14.0
1255/d    1982   Structural Adjustment Credit               --               80.0   80.0
12567a    1982   Technical Assistance Credit (SAL)    --                      7.0    7.0
1278/d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                   --               50.0   50.0
Total                                                      862.3  b2 .0  1,613.5  809.7
of which has been repaid                                447.3   --        30.5
Total now outstanding                                      414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Amount sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                          --     --       --       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                           414.9  b2.0  1,583.0
Total undisbursed                                          139.3  10.9    659.5  809.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7T  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Undisbursed amounts are computed at the August 31, 1982, rate of 1.07234.
/e  By using the rate at August 31, 1982, 1.07234, $41 million was disbursed
under Credit 1066-PAK, now fully disbursed. This amount is shown as
current principal for 1066-PAK.
/f  Effective on October 21, 1982.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel           0.63     --        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                 0.75     --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development             --     0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.35    0.84      20.19
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food          2.40    0.38       2.78
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and           29.00    1.82      30.82
Ltd. and Attock        Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-       1.78     --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board         2.70     --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 3.60     --        3.60
Total Gross Commitments                     82.43    9.83       92.26
Less:  Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                48.85    1.02       49.87
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           33.58    8.81      42.39
Ulndisbursed (including participants)       17.36    0.35       17.71



- 35 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed
in June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool was
completed in 1982. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Con-
struction of a second power plant with four units is in progress. All
Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the
Tarbela Development Fund.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May
15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
This project has been completed.
Loan No. 1208-T         Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
All major works have been completed. One outstanding retention
payment for about US$650,000 is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29,
1976; Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have continued to be experienced in the construction and
equipping of processing plants in Punjab, due mainly to disputes with civil
works contractors and structural defects in the buildings. The plant in
Sind has been completed. Field activities have made good progress.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted but construction delays have
continued and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Detailed action plans to improve operational and financial performance have
recently been agreed.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Develop-
ment Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date:  March 14, 1977; Closing Date:  July
31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to ini-
tial delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties
in installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys
and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment
is being procured to improve the rate of construction.
Loan No. 1366-T         Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reformulated project has been approved by the Executive Direc-
tors and GOP and GOPun have signed the legal documents. The contract for
the rehabilitation of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) has been let and
preparatory work is under way. An outstanding issue is the appointment of
three consultants to strengthen LMP management.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and USS25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9,
1977; Credit No. 684          Closing Date:  Decemer 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications
and signaling scheme is making good progress and the complete network is
expected to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been com-
pleted and the total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February
18, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum improve-
ments have been satisfactorily carried out. Nearly all civil works con-
tracts have been completed except at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan where con-
struction of the Agricultural Training Institutes has been delayed for
about one year due to site problems. At Sind Agricultural University
construction is also behind by one year due to initial delays in appoint-
ment of project implementation staff.



- 37 -
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and lack of a decision on upgrading field assis-
tants have caused implementation problems. Nevertheless, the vegetable
seed, maize production, service laboratory, training and apple production
components are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January
29, 1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project
activities. The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inven-
tory and the pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on
the basis of a forest resource assessment study, the immediate development
of an economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out; the scope of the
feasibility study will therefore be broadened to include a range of
development options. Terms of reference are now being prepared and field
work on the next phase of the study will start in the Spring of 1983.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$
12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting con-
sultants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September
14, 1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is in operation. Final disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1982.



- 38 -
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems but well-drilling and
management problems persist. Project implementation is about 15 months
behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been
extented to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the original 8-well
drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and
other problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is
assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in
preparing subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about
two years behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the
final designs and tender documents for the restructured project.  Some
contracts have been awarded.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training
have been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a
comprehensive proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected
to be completed by June 1983.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started, although well behind schedule. Implementation of the T&V system
and research-extension linkages remain weak. Recruitment of consultants
has been delayed.



- 39 -
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been
satisfactory. The agricultural engineering training component in NWFP is
50% completed; implementation in Punjab is about to begin. Funds for ADBP
onlend- ing are about 70% disbursed and will be fully disbursed by June 30,
1983.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January
10, 1980; Effective- Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.  Procurement schedules and construc-
tion targets for substations and transmission lines are generally being
met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9,
1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion,
one has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and
re-awarded, and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts.
Discussions are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of
technical assistance to two provincial governments to improve road main-
tenance.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit
of May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
About US$35 million had been authorized for 28 projects and US$23
million had been disbursed by September 30, 1982. PICIC's recovery program
is on target.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April
24, 1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project has made progress in many areas, although there has
been slow progress in the establishment of In-plant Training Advisory
Services in the provinces and in the appointment of staff for the Provin-
cial Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute. The
Government has agreed to a new timetable for appointing staff and develop-
ment of a staff training and work program for these institutions.



- 40 -
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective
Date: October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31,
1985
About $750,000 had been committed by July 1982. Selection of
consultants has been completed for the service centers and for the expert
promotion component activities; building construction and procurement of
machinery and equipment are in progress.
Credit No. 1157         Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Mil-
lion equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfac-
torily although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff,
and in making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158         Agricultural Research:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(IUS$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1986
Most of the staff required to operate the project have been
recruited and the procedures to appoint a consultancy firm to provide
technical assistance are well advanced. Preliminary selections have been
made for the first 40 overseas training fellowships. Architects have been
appointed, designs for civil works completed and construction commenced at
the National Agricultural Research Center.
Credit No. 1163         On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan  (IDBP
II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million equiv-
alent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date: June
14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on June 14, 1982.
Loan No. 2122           Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 13, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982; Clos-
ing Date:  June 30, 1987
This Loan was declared effective on June 9, 1982.



- 41 -
Loan No. 2166           Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of  June
23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Loan No. 2172           Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on October 21, 1982.
Credit No. 1239         Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1243         Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit (US$14
Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982; Effective Date:
January 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
This Credit was declared effective on January 5, 1983.
Credit No. 1255         Structural Adjustment:  SDR 71.9 Million Credit
(US$80 Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effec-
tive Date: September 9, 1982; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1983
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1256         Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
r                      This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1278         Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date: Sep-
tember 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 13, 1982.
Loan No. 2218           Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project:
(Us$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 183; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



-42-                          ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
18 months.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:
Federal Population Welfare Division.
(c)  Date of first mission to consider
the project:
February 1981.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
May 1982; updating mission: November 1982.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
March 2, 1983.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
,epteriber 1983.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  PAC to be maintained with sufficient qualified staff
(paragraph 56);
(b)  Government to fill all teaching positions for program
training component by September 1, 1983; cause PWTIs to
produce annual training program and Population Welfare
Division to approve same by May 1 of each year; by



-43-                             ANNEX III
September 1, 1983, appoint two IEC consultants; and by
December 1, 1983, employ a Director and Deputy Director
for the IEC Unit, and appoint qualified staff to fill
all national, provincial and district IEC positions
(paragraph 59 and 61);
(c) For population education component, Government to:
(i) employ an instructor for the Directorate by
September 1, 1983; (ii) formalize in writing an
understanding between the Ministry of Education and the
Population Welfare Division; and (iii) by July 1, 1984,
establish a population education cell in the Mtinistry of
Education (paragraph 63);
(d) Population Welfare Division to: (i) submit to the
Association by July 1, 1984, a report on staffing
patterns of the FWCs; and (ii) finalize the manual on
guidelines for operating FWCs and circulate same to all
population offices by December 1, 1983 (paragraphs 65
and 69);
(e)  Provincial population welfare directorates to prepare
annual plans of action for operation of family planning
service outlets and by July 1 of each year agree same
with participating organizations (paragraph 71);
(f) Key posts in Supplies and Services Directorate to be
filled with personnel qualified in procurement,
logistics and management (paragraph 81).
Approval by ECNEC, or the appropriate approving authority, of the PC-1
documents for the project, and fulfillment of conditions precedent to
effectiveness of the UK Grant document, would be additional conditions of
Credit effectiveness (paragraph 78).



