Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4166-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT
April 1, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents:
1982-83      1983-84     1984-85      1985-86
j        US$1.00 =  12.75          13.00        13.00        I3i00
Government of Pakistan Fiscal Year: July 1-June 30
.J



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic   Data   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  i
Definitions  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  ii
Abbreviations .iii
I. BACKGROUND .1
A.  The Demographic Situation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B. Population Projections.                                           2
C.  Past Population Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
D.  Problems With Past Population Efforts  . . . . . . . . . . .    4
E.  Recent Program Reorganization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
F.  The New Organizational Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
G. The 1981-84 Population Plan.                                      6
H.  Background on the Health Sector in the Context of
Family Planning .12
I.  External Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
J.  Sector Assessment and Status of Program Implementation . . .    13
II.    THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
A. Status of Preparation .14
B. Project Strategy and Design .14
C. Objective and Targets .15
D. Project Composition .15
E. Detailed Project Features .17
- National Scope Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Program Training .17
Information, Education and Communication . . . . . . . .    18
Population Education in the Formal School System . . . .   21
- Regional Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
FWCs . .                                                    23
Family Planning Outlets of Other Government
Departments  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    25
Family Planning Service Outlets of "Target Group" . . .
Institutions ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    26
This report is based on the findings of a population appraisal mission
which visited Pakistan from May 8 to 26, 1982; it consisted of Mrs. Nydia
Maraviglia (mission leader), and consultants Messrs. James Herm (Training
and Population Education), Mark Lediard (Information, Education and
Communication), John Cleland (Evaluation), Lee Edlefsen (Economics/
Financing) and Dr. Maureen Duggan (MCH/FP); Mr. Amanullah Khan Malik,
Bank Resident Mission covered procurements, disbursements and FWCs;
Mr. Harold W. Messenger, Division Chief, PHNDI, and Mr. C. Walker, UK-ODA
joined the mission and participated in concluding discussions. An updating
mission consisting of Mrs. Maraviglia and Messrs. Herm and Lediard took
place in September-October 1983. Ms. Helen Garrison (Economist) assisted
in demographic and economic analyses.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
A.  Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures  . . . . . . . .    27
B. Financing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
C. Procurement  ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    30
D. Disbursements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  32
E. Accounts and Audit ....  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
A. Institutional Arrangements ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
B.  Consultant Services  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
C.  Procedures for Identification/Appraisal, and
Implementation of Minor Innovative Schemes/Studies . . . . .    34
D. Evaluation ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    34
E.  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
V. POSSIBILITIES FOR COST RECOVERY.                                     36
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . .    37
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   0 . . . . . . ..40
ANNEXES
1.  Estimates of Contraceptive Requirements and Mixes  . . . . .    42
- Pakistan Population Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
- IDA Population Project, FY83-86  . . . . . .  . . . . . .    43
2. Detailed Cost Tables    ..                          .44
- Table 1: Estimated Project Costs by Component
and Year, FY83-86 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
- Table 2: Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure
Category and Year, FY83-86  . . . . . . . . . . .    45
- Table 3: Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure
Category and Component FY83-86   . . . .     .  . .    47
3.  Consultant Services and Contract Studies . . . . . . . . . .    48
- Man-months of Consultant Se!rvices by Subject,
Source of Recruitment and Timing, FY83-86  . . . . . . . . .  48
4.  Implementation Schedules for Each Project Sub-
component  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  .   .  52
5.  Indicators for Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56
- IEC Sub-component: Target Audiences, Messages and
Channels   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  58
6.  An Analysis of Possible Program Approaches and
Interventions  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ....  .   ....    63
7.  Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . .    64
8. Supporting Tables and Charts          ..               .65
- Chart 1: Pakistan Population Program: Organizational
Structure (May, 1982) - 1. National;
2. Provincial; 3. District; and 4. Local
Levels  .....................                        65



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
- Chart 2: Pakistan Population Program 1981-84:
Schematic Presentation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    67
- Chart 3: Pakistan Population Program: GOP and Donor
Sharing of Program Costs, 1982-87 . . . . . . . . . .    68
- Chart 4: Project Administration, Structure and
Responsibilities for Coordination and
Implementation  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  69
- Chart 5: Organizational Structures for Project Sub-
components: 1. Program Training; 2. IEC; and
3. Population Education (Schools) . . . . . . . . . .    71
- Table 1: Population Trends, 1901-1980  . . . . . . . . . . . .    73
- Table 2: Population Projections, 1980-2000 . . . . . . . . . .      73
- Table 3: Regional Project Component: Socio-economic
and Demographic Data of Projet Districts  . . . . . .    74
- Table 4: Regional Project Component: Number of FWCs
and Other Health Facilities by District . . . . . . .    75
9. Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  76
MAP:  Pakistan IBRD 16585R1






PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA
Total Population (estimated mid-1982)                            86,923,000
Total Area (km2)                                                 804,000
Density Per km2 (1981)                                           105
Per Capita Gross National Product (1980)                         US$300
Rate of Natural Increase (1980)                                  2.9%
Crude Birth Rate (1980)                                          42
Crude Death Rate (1980)                                          13
Life Expectancy at Birth (1980)                                  50 years
Infant Mortality Rate (1980)                                     126
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1981)           28%
Adult Literacy Rate
Males (1972) (aged 15 and over)                                30%
Females (1972) (aged 15 and over)                              11%
Primary School Enrollment as Percentage of Age Group (1979)  56%
Males                                                          81%
Females                                                        31%
Age Structure (mid-year, 1979)
0-4                                                            17%
5-14                                                          26%
15-49                                                         45%
50+                                                           12%
Population Per Physician (1977)                                  3,780
Population Per Nursing Person (1977)                             10,030
Percentage of Population With Access to Safe Water (1975)    29%
Percentage of Married Women of Reproductive Age Using a
Modern Contraceptive Method (1979)                             6%
Total Fertility Rate (1980)                                      6.1



-ii -
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate:       Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate:       Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Natural         Difference between crude birth and crude death
Increase:               rates, usually expressed as a percentage.
Average Annual          Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
Population Growth       migration, expressed as a percentage of the total
Rate:                   population in a given year.
Infant Mortality        Annual number of deaths of infants under one year
Rate:                   per 1,000 live births during the same year.
Total Fertility         The average number of children that would be born
Rate:                   to a woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years, and bear children according to
a given set of age-specific fertility rates.
Percent Current         The percentage of married women aged 15-49
Users of                practicing contraception at any given point in time.
Contraceptives:



-iii-
ABBREVIATIONS
AMC     Advisory Management Committee
APGR    Annual Average Population Growth Rate
AV      Audiovisual
CBR     Crude Birth Rate
CDR     Crude Death Rate
CMS     Continuous Motivation System
C&PD    Communication and Production Directorate
CPS     Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
CRS     Client Record System
CV      Community Volunteer
D.G.    Director General
DPWO    District Population Welfare Officer
FFWA    Female Family Welfare Assistant
FP      Family Planning
FPAP    Family Planning Association of Pakistan
FWC     Family Welfare Center
FWW     Family Welfare Worker
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
IUD     Intra-uterine Device
LHV     Lady Health Visitor
MFWA    Male Family Welfare Assistant
MCH     Maternal and Child Health
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
NITR    National Institute of Technical Research
PAC     Project Administration Cell
PDC     Population Development Center
PFS     Pakistan Fertility Survey
PWTI    Population Welfare Training Institute
RHS     Reproductive Health Service
RTI     Regional Training Institute
SSD     Supplies and Services Directorate
WAPDA   Water and Power Development Authority






PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Pakistan's population program has had a particularly difficult 20
year history, a result of administrative weaknesses, frequent program
changes, and social conditions that foster high fertility. The latest dis-
ruption took place as a result of political events in 1977. The Government
decided in 1980 to reorganize the Population Division and draw up a
strategy and plan, with a completely new orientation, based on a multi-
sectoral approach and community involvement. The GOP called upon IDA to
play a major role in assisting the new program. IDA responded with a
review of the sector and of the new plan in the Pakistan Economic
Developments and Prospects (April 1981). Since March 1981 IDA has been
assisting the Population Division to prepare a proposal which the latter
submitted to IDA for financing. The project, which was appraised by an IDA
mission in May 1982, supports institutional development and establishment
of a viable program, in coordination with other donor assistance, taking
into account past experiences and the low absorptive capacity of the
system.
A. The Demographic Situation
1.02      The population of Pakistan was estimated at about 87 million in
mid-1982, a five-fold increase since the beginning of this century, making
Pakistan the ninth most populous country in the world (Table 1, Annex 8).
Moreover, the annual average population growth rate (APGR) has accelerated
from 1.7% in the first half of the century to 2.8% as a result of dramatic
reductions in the death rate unaccompanied by any significant decline in
fertility. The size of the population is now doubling approximately every
25 years. This explosive rate of increase is clearly unsustainable both
from an economic and a social point of view.
1.03      Estimates of vital rates for 1980 indicate a crude birth rate
(CBR) of approximately 42 per 1,000 population and a crude death rate (CDR)
of about 13 per 1,000. Although there is evidence of a slight decline in
fertility from an average of 7.5 children per woman in 1960-70 to 6.6 in
1970-80, several factors interact to maintain a high CBR and, consequently,
a fast rate of population growth. These factors include a young age struc-
ture resulting in a growing number of women of reproductive age; a low mean
age of first marriage for women (about 17 years) and a concomitant long
exposure to childbearing; and almost universal marriage (about 90% before
age 21). The second determinant of population growth--the mortality rate--
still has considerable scope for declining further, given the high infant
mortality (probably above 100 per 1,000 live births) and the prevalence of
infectious diseases that can be controlled with better sanitation and other
preventive measures. External migration, consisting primarily of short-
term male worker movements to Gulf countries, does not affect significantly
either the internal population distribution or fertility. (Another
migratory wave of 2 million Afghan refugees is assumed to be a short-term
occurrence; they were not included in the 1981 census.) This situation



emphasizes the critical importance of stepping up programs which will
encourage lower fertility.
1.04      The trend in the CBR in the last 20 years conceals variations in
the fertility levels of different population groups in Pakistan according
to education, income, female labor force participation and rural-urban
residence. Education and labor force participation are factors likely to
stimulate major changes in norms and values leading to reductions in
fertility. However, the great majority of women in Pakistan never attend
school (11% female literacy) or participate in economically productive
activities (5% female labor force participation). Given this situation,
women?s social esteem derives, to a large extent, from having a large
number of children, particularly sons.
B. Population Projections
1.05      On the basis of past population growth trends, present structure,
and assumptions concerning future changes in fertility and mortality, popu-
lation projections have been prepared up to the year 2000 (Table 2, Annex
8). If the APGR declines to 2.5% between 1985 and 1990 and to 2.2% towards
the end of the century, Pakistan's population would reach 134 million in
the year 2000 and would become stationary (zero growth) 120 years later, at
308 million. More substantial fertility decreases in the next two decades,
(to an APGR of 2.4% and 1.8% respectively) could make a considerable
difference in the total size of the population in the year 2000 (128
million) and in the stationary population (228 million in about 2120). A
successful population program in the 1980's would increase the likelihood
of the second alternative.
1.06      The stress being built up in the country's social and economic
systems by rapid population growth is evident from the projected number of
persons who in the next two decades will require schooling, health care,
water, electricity, housing and jobs. Currently approximately one half of
the 12 million children aged 5-9 years attend primary school; the Govern-
ment's objective of universal primary education will become increasingly
more difficult to achieve as the numbers in this age group continue to grow
to 15-17 million 15 years from now. The pace of the fertility decline over
the next 15 years will make a substantial impact on the necessary growth in
spaces in primary school. For example, if the more substantial fertility
reductions are achieved, there will be 600,000 fewer spaces required in the
primary school system in 1995. The prospects concerning secondary educa-
tion are similar. Labor force entrants in 1995 have already been born;
their number will therefore not be affected by fertility changes. This
group will grow at a rate of 3.8% per year until 1995 (compared to 2.5%
during the decade 1967 to 1977) which would require substantial increases
in employment opportunities.  Thiere will be about 1,838,000 new entrants
into the labor market in 1995, compared with 1,080,000 in 1983. The number
of labor force entrants after 1995 will be strongly affected by fertility
levels over the next decade.  By the year 2000, the labor force would
contain approximately one half rmillion less people if population grows at
the slower rates indicated earlier.



- 3 -
C. Past Population Programs
1.07      Pakistan was one of the first developing countries to recognize
the problem of rapid population growth and to initiate a program intended
to lower fertility rates. The program, in effect since 1960, operated in
an environment in which most of the factors generally associated with high
fertility rates have coexisted and reinforced one another; i.e., high
illiteracy, poverty, isolation, few opportunities for women's personal
growth, and prestige associated with a large number of sons. In addition
to the difficult environment, the program over the past 20 years has been
fraught with problems and controversy. Evaluations of past program
activities by the Government have concluded that their impact on birth
rates has been minimal. Program accomplishments may have been limited to
preventing an even sharper rise in APGR during the 1970's. Although the
program has increased knowledge about contraceptive methods there is still
a big gap between knowledge and practice (75% knowledge versus 6%
practice).
1.08      As in many developing countries, family planning activities in
Pakistan began with the efforts of volunteers in the 1950's. These efforts
were centered on the Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP) founded
in 1953. In 1965, the semiautonomous Pakistan Family Planning Council was
established to direct and oversee the program and a Population Division was
created within the Ministry of Health with financial and administrative
autonomy from the rest of the health services. The field staff consisted
of dais (traditional birth attendants) at the rate of one per 2000
population in urban areas or 2 to 3 villages in rural areas, supervised by
the district family planning officer. Clinic services were offered by Lady
Family Planning Visitors (auxiliary level staff) supervised by the District
Technical Officer (a lady medical doctor). This organization entailed a
broad supervisory span which led to weak management and left few
opportunities for supervisors to do on-the-job training and to offer other
support to field staff. The program was interrupted in 1969-71 during the
conflict that resulted in the creation of Bangladesh.
1.09      A Committee set up by the Government in 1970 to review the
1960-70 program reported that in 1960-65 the program had had no visible
impact, mainly due to scarce resources within the already starved health
services, inadequate organizational base and extreme social resistance.
During 1965-70, the Committee concluded, the program had more impact
(with a decline in CBR from 50.7 to 46-48 per 1000) but it had come
considerably short of the 10 point per 1000 decline targeted. The main
problems in this phase were perceived to be pressure to achieve unrealistic
targets and indiscriminate spreading of resources irrespective of likely
public response. This led to services of low quality, without efforts to
create demand, in areas (particularly cities) where potential demand
existed and could have been further stimulated.
1.10      During the plan period 1970-75 the Continuous Motivation System
(CMS) which had been operating on an experimental basis in Sialkot District
in the late 1960's was adopted nationwide. This scheme replaced the dais
by literate and educated field motivators, organized in teams of one male
and one female to visit fertile couples, motivate them to accept and
continue use of contraceptive methods, and provide contraceptives in their
homes. During this period there were three basic information, education
and communication (IEC) strategies, two of which relied heavily on the mass



- 4 -
media. Initially, District Population Officers, with no communication
skills and large administrative burdens, mounted publicity campaigns.
Various problems resulting from this high-profile, low-effectiveness
approach led to an abrupt centralization oL the IEC functions.  The second
strategy was to print large amcunts of materials for the general public;
the printed materials, however, were unlikely to lead to behavioral changes
among a predominantly illiterate population. The third strategy was the
attempt at face-to-face motivation through the CMS, which was never put
into practice in any significant way, since the political events of 1971
delayed CMS initiation until 1973-75 and new disturbances in 1977 led to
program cancellation. Although the program for the 1970-75 period had
several well-conceived elements, these features did not have the chance to
be properly tested. To complement the. CMS, in 1975 the Government
initiated, with USAID assistance, a strategy of "contraceptive
inundation" using both Government and private distribution channels. In
1977 the Pakistan Family Planning Council was abolished and all official
population activities were interrupted due to political turmoil. During
the last five years there has been no field work and no motivation effort;
family planning clinics have continued to function, but have received
little attention and support and as a result their performance and
utilization have dwindled to an all-time low.
D. Problems with Past Program Efforts
1.11      The earlier population programs in Pakistan had several
weaknessess, some of which are relevant to proposed IDA sponsored
activities. Apart from the dif-ficult environment (high illiteracy,
poverty, isolation and few opportunities for women) the most pervasive
problems were frequent interruptions and changes in organization and
program direction, a low level of commitment by the authorities, and
indifference or frequently overt resistance to family planning by health
professionals in the Government system, which led to the establishment of
an organizational structure fostering a single-purpose program with family
planning services offered in isolation of other MCH and general health
consultations.   Resources were spread too thinly to all parts of the
country, irrespective of the likely public response, and field staff were
selected with little regard for qualifications.   Even well-conceived
schemes failed because of insufficient testing, inflexibility and no
operational plans.
E. Recent Program Reorganization
1.12      In January 1980 the Population Division was transferred from the
Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Planning and Development, renamed
Population Welfare Division, and given the role of policy-making, planning
and coordination as well as implementation of IEC, training and part of the
services. It was reorganized with a staff of 8,300 rather than the
previous strength of 16,000. The bulk of the reduction entailed dismissal
of field motivators, many of whom were ill--suited for field work due to
faulty selection; also, under the new plan, which places reliance for
motivation/education on community councils and volunteers, many of those
workers became redundant. Staff reduction and incorporation of those
remaining in the program into the civil service was completed in November
1981. The reorganization also entailed a considerable narrowing of the



-5-
supervisory span for field work. The GOP decisions to appoint a
well-regarded and experienced population professional to lead the new
program as Minister of State and Advisor to the President and to undertake
a difficult reorganization and re-evaluation of staff positions reflects a
serious commitment to revitalize efforts towards lowering fertility.
1.13      Transfer of the population organization to the Ministry of
Planning and Development facilitates program planning and provides a focal
poirnt for coordination of several government departments and public and
private sector institutions. The population organization, in addition to
its coordinating role, has retained responsibility for the delivery of
family planning services--combined with recently added maternal and child
health (MCH) care--through some 1,000 .Family Welfare Centers (FWCs). The
GOP plans to preserve and consolidate this network because it is one of the
few sources of family planning services in the country. A small expansion
to 1,250 centers during the Plan period would be accomplished on the basis
of demonstrated performance and achievement of objectives.  These centers
would also provide a focus within communities for public outreach and
education/motivation activities. The national and provincial health
organizations are fully occupied in managing and strengthening the health
system. Any pressure to integrate now the two systems would cause
disruption and tend to. dilute the fertility reduction activities. The
Plan's multisectoral approach encourages gradual incorporation of family
planning into the health services; the FWC network will thus be
supplemented with the introduction of family planning services in
facilities of provincial departments of health and of other institutions.
Also, basic training of auxiliary clinical workers of both programs have
been made equivalent (para. 1.24).
F. The New Organizational Structure
1.14      The program has a three-tier structure at federal, provincial and
district levels (Chart 1 in Annex 8). The plan calls for provincial
governments to coordinate and implement the program through its various
departments; the federal level provides funds and retains responsibility
for policy, planning, monitoring, IEC, training, supplies,
evaluation/research, and foreign assistance. Budget resources can be used
only for population purposes,under specific organizational arrangements and
following federal policies and programs.
1.15      For policy formulation, periodic program reviews and overall
coordination, a National Council for Population Welfare Planning chaired by
the President of Pakistan was set up in 1980. The membership includes all
Federal Ministers, the Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission, the
Advisor on Population and the FPAP President. The population portfolio has
been retained by the President. The secretariat for the program is the
Population Welfare Division in the Ministry of Planning and Development.
It is headed by a Secretary assisted by an Additional Secretary and two
Joint Secretaries, and has a strength of 580 staff members distributed in
12 departments (shown in Chart 1 of Annex 8).
1.16      At present there are four Provincial Director Generals (one in
each province) heading a Population Directorate and reporting to the
Federal Secretary, Population. Each Director General works in close



- 6 -
cooperation with the Provincial Government and coordinates with the
Provincial Chief Secretary/Additional Chief Secretary. In order to further
facilitate implementation, the Government is planning to transfer
responsibility for implementation of field activities to the Provincial
Governments, by transforming the provincial population directorates (now
under the Federal Government) into provincial population welfare
departments. D.Gs. would becomes ex-officio Secretaries of Population
Welfare within the Provincial Government. All staff holding grades 16 and
below would be provincialized, while staff in grades 17 and above would
remain federal civil servants, although they would be placed at the
disposal of the province. The program would continue to be federally
funded. The provincial planning and development departments would monitor
the population program, in the same way they monitor all other sectors.
Under Cabinet instructions, an ordinance including the above-mentioned
provisions has been prepared and sent to the provinces for comments. This
process would represent an orderly transfer of responsibility for
implementation of the population program to the provinces; it should
facilitate administration and encourage Provincial Secretaries to cooperate
with the program. Each province hasestablished a Provincial Council for
Population Welfare Planning chaired either by the Governor, the Chief
Secretary or the Additional Chief Secretary and including as members the
Ministers/Secretaries of the various sectors; the Councils monitor progress
made by each participating department in meeting population program
objectives.
1.17      There are 72 districts in Pakistan.  For purposes of this program
56 have been classified as "high density"; they have 30 district level
population staff each; the remaining 16 "low density" districts each have a
strength of 5 staff members. Heading the district organization is a
District Population Welfare Officer (DPWO). Staff under the DPWO performs
administrative, supervisory and IEC functions. The District Office
maintains a store to supply contraceptives, drugs, materials and equipment
to the FWCs and other institutions delivering family planning services.
Focal points of the program for IEC, services and voluntary work are the
1000 FWCs assisted by Advisory Management Committees (AMCs) (there are
between 8 and 35 FWCs per district). The district infrastructure is
completed by one or more Reproductive Health Service Centers (RHS)--for
surgical sterilization--located in hospitals. In coordinating various
departments and organizations and in obtaining community cooperation, the
DPWO is assisted by a District Population Welfare Planning Committee
chaired by the elected Chairman of the District Council; other members
include representatives of health, education, local government, social
welfare, labor, FPAP, and one or two prominent citizens interested in
population welfare.
G. The 1981-84 Population Plan
Strategy
1.18      Drawing upon past experience, a new Population Welfare Plan was
formulated and approved by the Cabinet in November 1980. The Plan focuses
on behavioral changes favoring a "small family" norm within an acceptable
socio-cultural framework. The approach is multisectoral, not confined to
single purpose birth control activities; it calls for the active
participation of all relevant government departments, public institutions,



- 7 -
and the private sector in implementing service and other programs to inform
and change attitudes toward family size among various groups, audiences or
clientele. Another strategy is to rely on community involvement through
local leadership to make the program more responsive to local needs and to
enhance its acceptability. The Plan also recognizes that the effectiveness
of the population program will depend in large measure on improvements in
such areas as education, particularly girl's school enrollment and women's
functional literacy and in other programs geared to improving the condi-
tions of women and their participation in productive labor. Therefore, it
aims at promoting support for these activities as part of broader govern-
ment development policies.
Objectives
1.19      The new Plan establishes as a primary goal the creation of con-
ditions favorable to behavior changes. It avoids earlier over-optimistic
objectives of fertility decline. The demographic impact estimated in the
Plan is based on the assumption that there is an unmet demand for family
planning services in certain sectors of the population. The main objec-
tives of the program for 1981-84 are: (a) to increase the percentage of
current users from 6% to 14%; and (b) to decrease the CBR from approxi-
mately 42 per 1000 to 37.5 per 1000, that combined with an expected
decrease in the CDR from 13 per 1000 to 10.5 per 1000, would produce a drop
in the rate of natural increase from 2.9% to 2.7%. Monitoring this pro-
gress will be difficult, since baseline vital rate estimates are only
approximations and there will be at least a one-year time lag between
contraceptive use survey data collection and results.
Plan Description
1.20      The Plan builds upon the lessons of the last 20 years and
stresses that: (a) service availability is important but it will not, by
itself, increase appreciably contraceptive use; (b) services must be of
good quality and easily accessible; (c) service providers should be skilled
communicators; (d) the local community should be directly involved in
program decisions; (e) even a well designed plan will not succeed if
implementation is not properly managed; and (f) resources of all Government
departments and public and private organizations must be directed toward
plan objectives. The Plan consists of a "core program" under the
responsibility of the population organization, comprising five essential
sub-programs for the delivery of comprehensive population welfare planning
services and education/motivation directed to the married couples in
reproductive ages, the family, and the community. The sub-programs are:
(a) Family Welfare Centers; (b) Reproductive Health Services Centers; (c)
Information, Education and Communication; (d) Family Welfare Manpower
Development (clinical training); and (e) Program Training
(non-clinical). The Population Welfare Division is also entrusted with the
support functions of evaluation and logistics, supplies and distribution.



- 8 -
The "core program" is complemented by several "projects"I1/ to be executed
by Federal and provincial departments, public sector institutions and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The "projects" are selected for
their contribution to furthering the goals of the Plan and for their
complementarity with other program activities; they should contribute to
greater coverage and diversification and are expected to increase program
acceptance and credibility. The population program of each province
consists of a share of the "core program" and a package of specific
"projects". The provincial population staff, with assistance as necessary
from the technical departments of the Federal Population Welfare Division,
is responsible for developing and agreeing on implementation plans for each
"project", with the respective governmental or private organization, and
for monitoring its execution. Chart 2 in Annex 8 shows a schematic
presentation of the Plan and Chart 3 gives indications of GOP and external
donor support of the various sub-programs.
1.21      The Family Welfare Centers sub-program, under the respective
population welfare directorates, utilizes the existing 1,000 FWCs (plus 250
to be added during the plan period), functioning in rented buildings, to
provide family planning services jointly with recently added MCH care,
motivation/education, and community development activities (paras. 1.13 and
1.35 also refer to FWCs; details are given as part of projectt description
beginning with para. 2.23). Each FWC is expected to serve about 20,000
population. An Advisory Management Committee selected from the local
community supports the center, organizes developmental activities and
assists in selection and recruitment of volunteers. The staff (1 clinical,
2 promotional, 2 support and one part-time resident supervisor) are
responsible for services, education/information, and community development
activities; they also assist the AMC in training and organizing
volunteers. About 30 to 40 volunteers are to function as outreach workers
of each FWC, under the supervisicn of the FWC staff.
1.22      Reproductive Health Services (RHS) Sub-Program:  Under the
responsibility of the Technical Directorate of the Population Welfare
Division, its objective is to offer quality gynecological and obstetric
services and contraceptive surgery in government and public sector insti-
tutions' hospitals, as well as in medical colleges and private hospitals.
There are two types of RHS centers: 25 type "A" centers operating in
medical colleges and teaching hospitals, with their own medical and nursing
staff, and 75 type "B" centers, in the process of being established in
district and other hospitals. Techniques emphasized in RHS centers are
proper OB-GYN treatment and minilaparotomy. Provincial health departments
are responsible for approving planning, coordination and implementation,
and evaluating RHS activities. The Population Welfare Division's Technical
Directorate issues medical and technical guidelines to associated RHS
centers run by NGOs. The UNFPA has been financing this sub-program in the
last five years and continues supporting it under the new Plan.
/1   The term "project" in the context of Pakistan's Population Plan is
presented between quotation marks in this report, to distinguish it
from the IDA financed project.



- 9 -
1.23      Information, Education and Communication Sub-program:  This
sub-program, originally included in the Plan as a special "project", is now
recognized by GOP as part of the "core program". It is described in detail
as a component of the project, in paras. 2.13 to 2.18. A revitalized
organizational structure will operate under the project to carry out a
renewed and reorganized IEC effort utilizing a blend of channels from
face-to-face communication to groups and mass media. The objectives are to
change the image of the population program, to reach influential people and
opinion leaders and gain their support, and to provide communication
training and guidance to field workers in order to reach a variety of
audiences. In the initial stages, the IEC activities through personal and
group communication and mass media will concentrate in promotion of six
main themes, all associated with the small family norm and birth spacing:
breast-feeding, desirable maternal and child health care practices,
nutrition of the growing child, responsibility of the father, late
marriage, and status of women.
1.24      Family Health Manpower Development Sub-program (clinical
training): This sub-program carries out basic and in-service auxiliary
level clinical training for the population program. It is administered by
the Population Welfare Division's Directorate of Clinical Training located
in Karachi and operates through 12 Regional Training Institutes (RTIs).
This is one of the oldest activities of the population program in Pakistan,
originating in the late 1960's; it has managed to function on a fairly
continuous basis, even during periods of program interruption. In the last
five years it has received financial support from the UNFPA and it
continues to be assisted by that agency under the new Plan. The cadre of
family planning workers produced by this sub-program are now being
re-trained to become Family Welfare Workers (FWWs), with added functions
for deliveries and other MCH services, and Family Welfare Counsellors
(first-level supervisors of FWCs). With these additions to their basic
training, FWWs have become equivalent to paramedical auxiliary personnel of
provincial health departments--Lady Health Visitors (LHVs) and male/female
Medical Technicians. In order to complete this equivalence, these latter
workers are now required to receive family planning training. Cross-over
training for existing auxiliary workers of both systems is already
underway. This measure, already approved by the Nursing Council of
Pakistan, would facilitate an eventual consolidation of the health service
delivery systems (para. 1.35).
1.25      Programme Training (non-clinical):  The need for in-service
training of population workers in motivation/education only surfaced in
1970, with the development of the Continuous Motivation System, although
this activity was never fully established because of the program
disruptions which took place during the decade. The new Plan, faced with
the need for a training organization to prepare motivation and education
personnel and volunteers for outreach work, created a new Directorate of
Program Training and Education, which will complement the functions of the
Directorate of Clinical Training. Two Population Welfare Training
Institutes (PWTI) with non-clinical training functions are being
established in Lahore and Karachi (a detailed description of this
sub-program is included in paras. 2.09 to 2.12 as part of the project
description).



- 10 -
Support Functions of the Populatlon Division
1.26      The Plan entrusts evaluation, logistics of supplies and
distribution functions to the Federal Population Welfare Division. USAID
has recently (summer 1982) approved a 5-year population project (para.
1.36) to assist, inter alia, these support activities and any necessary
consultant services and professional staff training for these areas.
1.27      Evaluation:  Past popu:Lation activities in Pakistan were
evaluated by the Pakistan Fertil:ity Survey (PFS) and the Contraceptive
Prevalence Survey, both in 1975, and the Client Record System (CRS) which
was established in the same year. This system is currently under review to
make it more responsive to the needs of managers at various levels. A
Population Development Center (P])C) has been established within the
Directorate of Planning, resulting from the consolidation of existing units
of data processing, surveys and statistics, and research. Biomedical
research is the responsibility of the National Institute of Technical
Research (NITR) which since 1970 has served as the technical arm of the
population program. Regular information from the CRS will be complemented
by the following surveys to be conducted under the administration of the
PDC and consultant services provided through the AID project: (a) a
contraceptive prevalence survey (CPS) in 1983 (as baseline) and another CPS
probably in 1985; (b) a male or husband survey to obtain insights in
Pakistani culture and decision making concerning family formation; and (c)
other special surveys including client follow-up and continuation rates and
MCH and family planning baseline data.
1.28      Logistics of Supplies and Distribution:  Logistics of equipment,              (
contraceptives and materials are centralized in the Supplies and Services
Directorate (SSD) in Islamabad, with a Central Warehouse in Karachi. The
Plan acknowledges that proper functioning of the logistics system is
crucial for success of the program. This system has been in existance
since inception of the program in 1965. The main problems faced have been
sporadic movement of supplies, inadequate warehousing facilities, and
deficient stockkeeping methods. Several consultants have studied the
system in the last three years, and suggested ways to simplify and
streamline the procedures. A new information system for contraceptive
movement will be developed and staff will be trained under USAID
assistance, which also includes financing of new warehousing facilities in
Karachi. In February 1982 USAID made a review of inventories and recalled
all contraceptives with expired shelf life. Based on assumptions on
contraceptive use prevalence by method it made new estimates of
requirements (Annex 1).
Multisectoral "Projects"
1.29      Population Welfare Program Through Other Departments:  This
grouping includes "projects" to incorporate responsible parenthood concepts
and family planning services as a regular activity of the facilities of
provincial health and other departments. Provincial population
directorates are making arrangements with the health and other provincial
authorities under which the Population Welfare Division provides family
planning training to staff of other health facilities, complements
equipment and materials, and provides initial funds to purchase
contraceptives; in turn, health and other participating departments agree



- 11 -
to deliver FP services to women and couples and to fill simple reporting
forms for the client record system. These "projects" are designed as
complementary to the FWC "core" sub-program. Location of FWCs may be
changed in some cases, after family planning services in other health
facilities become established, to avoid duplications and to maximize
coverage (further details in para. 2.31, under project description).
1.30      Target Group Institutions:  Public sector organizations such as
Pakistan Railways, Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), the Armed
Forces, Pakistan Steel Mills, Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) and
Fauji Foundation are large employers with nationwide spread and substantial
health facilities, manpower and resources. A large number of fertile
couples, especially in urban areas, are covered by this organized sector.
Under the new Plan, the Population Welfare Division is developing
"projects" with these institutions along similar lines as those being
worked out with provincial health and other departments, so that they may
start providing family planning services and advice to their respective
clienteles (further details, in para. 2.32 under project description).
1.31      National Population Education:  This "project" introduces
population education concepts into the school system and non-formal
education. The Federal Ministry of Education and the provincial
departments of education are the implementing organizations. They will
incorporate population related modules in their curricula. Also, teachers
will be trained on how to apply these modules in classroom teaching
(details on this "project" in the formal school system appear under project
description, paras. 2.19 to 2.20).
1.32      Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs):  These groups have often
been pioneers in the population field, stimulating awareness, highlighting
consequences of population growth and suggesting interventions. Their
participation in the program will be cost-effective, especially in
innovative activities, demonstration, community organization, and
research. Several organizations have been identified for specific
"projects".
1.33      Social Marketing "Project":  Contraceptives are available in
retail shops, but the prices are too high for many people in the lower
income groups. A proposal for commercial distribution of contraceptives
in Pakistan at subsidized prices is part of the Population Plan. This
"project" would establish a parastatal organization with a staff of
approximately 40-50 members under a government-chaired board, to market
donated contraceptives (pills and condoms) through commercial outlets. The
objectives are to make available large quantities of contraceptives at low
cost. Besides increasing contraceptive availability, these programs in
other countries have had an important role in desensitizing the population
to emotional obstacles toward family planning and contraceptive use. A
constraint to commercial distribution of contraceptives in Pakistan is the
present low level of contraceptive practice, which makes the sale of these
products unattractive to retailers. Financing of this activity is under
discussion among international and national NGOs.
1.34      Other Complementary "Projects" include the involvement of
"hakims" (traditional medical practitioners) in provision of family
planning advise and services. This "project" is receiving UNFPA



- 12 -
financing. Development of university population/demography study centers
is a "project" being considered by OI)A-UK for possible financial support.
H.  Background on the Health Sector2 in the Context of Family Planning
1.35      Although family planning was a responsibility of the health
outlets during the early 1960's it never amounted to a significant effort.
In the mid-sixties the Ministry of Health established separate family
planning clinics; in 1979, with the transfer of the Population Division
from the Ministry of Health to Planning and Development, those clinics
became the base for the FWC network. The GOP decided that integration of
this system into a health infrastruclure that needs basic organizational,
technical, and managerial strengthening before it could assume any
additional functions and responsibil:ities, would not in the best interests
of renewed efforts to lower fertility. At the same time, it recognized
that, in the long term, it is important for the success of the population
program, to have the support of health professionals (both in the public
and private sectors) and to make fam:ily planning services available in all
health outlets. A closer cooperation between the two sectors is being
fostered under the new Population Plan through several measures. As
already mentioned, provincial population welfare directorates are
developing plans of action with health secretaries to initiate family
planning services and education/motivation in health outlets. The Clinical
Directorate of the Population Welfare Division and its 12 RTIs are
providing training in family plannin,g to health auxiliaries and doctors of
provincial health departments and plan to develop training of trainers
courses to enable those departments to gradually handle family planning
training for their own staff. The Schools of Public Health of the Ministry
of Health are assisting RTIs in training FWWs in MCH, including deliveries,
while doctorsat government hospitals are being trained by medical colleges
through the RHS sub-program in surgical contraceptive techniques. In order
to ensure compatibility and transfer;ability of auxiliary health staff in
the country, the Pakistan Nursing Council has decided that clinical
auxiliary staff from the health and population organizations should have
the same basic training. As yet another step toward coordination, a health
official is a member of all national, provincial, and district advisory
councils and population committees. Several "projects" being developed to
involve private doctors in family planning work as part of their regular
practices are intended to increase the support for the population program
by the medical profession. All these measures would facilitate an eventual
integration, when provincial health departments are strengthened and ready
to accept full responsibility for all services, including family planning.
I. External Assistance
1.36      Since 1978, UNFPA has been the only significant donor to the
population program. Since 1978 it provided about about US$3 million. The
new plan has generated a renewed interest by several donors. USAID,
/2 Reviews of the health sector were included in the 1978, 1981 and 1982
Bank Economic Reports on Pakistan.



- 13 -
the major donor until interruption of assistance in 1978, has approved a
US$25.6 million grant and about US$2 million in local currency partially to
fund management information and research, logistics, and contraceptive
supplies. A social marketing scheme is being developed by FPAP with
possible assistance from an international NGO.  UNFPA is supporting RHS
(sterilizations), clinical training, assistance to NGOs, involvement of
hakims and technical assistance (US$9.5 million in 1982-85).  UNICEF and
WHO are assisting in research with about US$.75 million in 1982, and ADB
has included US$.5 million for 1982 in a health loan to renovate RHS
facilities and provide equipment. In addition to co-financing the present
project with IDA, UK-ODA is considering possible financing up to about
US$2.0 million for population study centers in universities, technical
assistance and equipment.
Sector Assessment and Status of Program Implementation
1.37      In spite of increased official commitment to the population
program in Pakistan, several constraints and problems identified in earlier
efforts continue to be relevant and not amenable to rapid solution. These
include the high illiteracy, poverty, low status of women, general
administrative weaknesses of the system, and opposition to the program--the
latter in part a reflection of ill-advised strategies in the past.
The 1980-81 the reorganization absorbed most of the attention of population
officials, and left fieldworkers with little direction. Basic clinical
training continued in RTIs, and some courses began in the PWTI-Lahore. By
the end of 1981 the Population Welfare Division initiated orientation
sessions for all its personnel. Meetings with provincial and district
population officers took place in February and May 1982, to agree on
performance standards, as a first step to develop workplans that will be
used to establish a management-by-objectives system. Provincial population
offices are developing action plans with other provincial departments and
public service institutions to train staff and incorporate family planning
into health facilities. Also, by early 1983 DPWOs and PWTIs had given
orientation sessions to about half of the advisory management committees
related to FWCs.
1.38      Other important activities were the completion of a functional
analysis of FWCs (late 1981), and a six-week course for master trainers
(March-April 1982), both done by the Population Welfare Division together
with consultants financed under the IDA PPF. Full re-programming of FWC
activities is taking place as centers are relocated in more adequate rented
facilities; organization of community activities has begun in FWCs after
orientation of AMC members.
1.39      Plan implementation during 1981-82 proceeded close to the pace
estimated in the 1981 Bank Economic Report. Indicators of good progress
set in that report included completion of the reorganization, training of
master trainers, programming of activities with participating departments,
and stepping up of clinical training, all of which have been fulfilled.
As anticipated, very modest field activity (both in service and motivation)
took place during the 1981 transition period. By mid-1982, however, the
activities mentioned above had begun. This coincided with the initiation
of several externally financed population activities in Pakistan (including
UNFPA, USAID and IDA--the latter through a PPF advance and proposed
retroactive financing).



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Status of Preparation
2.01      The 4-year project is thte result of 18 months of preparatory work
by the Population Welfare Division, and several national and external
consultancies and workshops financed through an IDA PPF advance of
US$290,000. A project proposal prepared by the Government was presented to
IDA in February 1982. A Joint Secretary of the Population Welfare Division
appointed project coordinator by the GOP in late 1981 directed project
preparation. The PPF advance financed consultants who assisted in
undertaking a functional analysis of FWCs, a six-week workshop for master
trainers, training equipment and materials and background papers for an IEC
program. Remaining funds are being used to engage consultants who are
assisting between now and credit effectiveness in preparing workplans for
training and IEC, designing a first batch of IEC materials and manuals,
making arrangements with NGOs for service provision, and developing
curricula and teaching aids for se!veral priority courses. The Population
Welfare Division conducted two orientation sessions on the project for
DPWOs, designated DDPWOs to assume project functions and initiated
development of IEC and training materials for use in training of trainers
and field workers. It also completed a first session on training of
trainers, formed AMCs in project dListricts and is moving FWCs to
appropriate rented quarters as necessary.
B. Project Strategy and Design
2.02      This project, proposed for IDA financing and USAID and UK-ODA
co-financing, consists of a national component supporting three essential
sub-programs: program training (non-clinical), IEC, and population
education in schools; and a regional component concentrating program
efforts in thirteen districts with a total of 20 million mainly urban and
semi-urban population, most likely to be receptive to population welfare
objectives. It also includes evaluation and funds for preparation of
subsequent projects, including planning of a midcensal demographic survey.
These activities are complementary to other external assistance in the
population field. Main considerations in deciding on project composition
were: (a) acceptance of the new program strategy as a sound approach and of
the Population Plan as a viable alternative to revive population efforts in
Pakistan; (b) the need to select components that would complement other
donors' inputs (mainly UNFPA and USAID); (c) avoidance of overambitious
designs that could overtax a recently restructured system with
traditionally low implementing capacity; and (d) stress on the need to
improve the implementation process.
2.03      The project will support: nationally two of the five "core"
sub-programs of the Plan--IEC and non-clinical training--while the UNFPA is
already assisting two other--RHS and clinical training. As part of the IEC
"core" program, the project will support the incorporation of population
education in the formal school system, an important multisectoral activity
of the new Plan to inform and educate young people, through teachers, on
implications of rapid population growth as well as in good family health
practices. All these national components need reorganized or new national
structures.



- 15 -
2.04      The project will also assist the fifth "core" sub-program,the
FWCs, in thirteen districts, in order to test the concept that community
involvement and good quality MCH services, when combined with well
conceived educational programs and family planning services, can begin
changing attitudes toward family size and family health. This
sub-component will be closely monitored and evaluated in order to assess
technical viability, complementarity with other health services, and role
of FWCs as focal points for community development activities. Evaluation
findings will provide GOP with a strong basis for designing future
interventions. This regional component would also include two key
multisectoral activities: introduction of family planning services and
education/motivation in health facilities of other provincial government
departments--including those of the health departments--and in those of
"target group" institutions (Railways, WAPDA, PIA, etc.). Coordinated
packages of project activities for specific geographic areas, tailored to
the different attitudes and needs of various regions and population groups
would be programmed and implemented in a large metropolitan area (Karachi
in Sind Province), a large agro-industrial district (Sheikhupura in Punjab
Province), five agrarian districts (two each in Sind and Punjab and one in
Baluchistan), the city of Quetta in Baluchistan, and three districts in
NWFP. In these last two provinces, public response to family planning is
expected to be low. These districts were selected so a start could be made
in Plan activities in all provinces.
C. Objectives and Targets
2.05      The specific project objectives are to assist the GOP in:
(a) accomplishing the transition from a single purpose family
planning program, to a multisectoral and community oriented
population welfare program;
(b) strengthening the organizational structure of the population
program by establishing and reorganizing units for program
training, IEC, and population education; and
(c) improving the program implementation process by developing
detailed operational plans with clear objectives, using those
plans for supervision and monitoring and improving staff quality
through training.
2.06      The project's target for 1982-86 in the project areas is to
increase the number of current users of contraceptives from 7% of currently
married women of reproductive age in 1982 to 14.5% in 1986. This target
implies a reduction in the crude birth rate in the projects districts of
approximately 3 points by 1987.
D. Project Composition
2.07      The project includes the following components:



16 -
National Scope Component
(a) Program Training: Establishing two Population Welfare Training
Institutes (in Lahore and Karachi) and supporting a 4-year
national program training plan by providing vehicles,
audio-visual, teaching and office equipment, furniture,
materials, production of manuals and teaching aids, per diem and
travel expenses for training teams and trainees, salaries,
supplemental rent, and other operating costs;
(b) Information, Education and Communication (IEC): Establishing a
national IEC organization comprising salaries for new Federal and
district IEC staff and other operating costs on a declining
basis; equipment, vehicles, contract staff and consultant
services, production of printed materials, production and
broadcasting of radio and television programs, and per diem and
travel expenses for seminars and supervision; and
(c) Population Education in Formal School System: Expanding the
population education program by strengthening the Population Wel-
frare Division's population education unit and creating a unit in
the Federal Ministry of Education through financing salaries on a
declining basis; and providing equipment, materials, consultant
services, per diem, travel expenses, and other operating costs
for teachers' seminars, supervision and for correspondence
courses through the Open University.
Regional Component
(a) Family Welfare Centers: Supporting the conversion of about 250
existing clinics of the F'opulation Welfare Division from single
purpose family planning to FP/MCH/community development FWCs and
establishing 42 new FWCs by financing salaries for redefined
positions, rent for service and staff quarters, and other
operating costs (including medicines) on a declining basis and
providing equipment, furniture, consultant services and medical
staff contracts, per diem and travel expenses for supervision,
facility and equipment maintenance; and seed money for
development activities;
(b) Family Planning Service Outlets of Other Government Departments:
Establishing family planning services in about 700 existing
health outlets of several provincial government departments by
providing equipment, travel, per diem, other expenses for
training field staff, drugs and a contract for training trainers;
and
(c) Target Group Institutions: Establishing about 50 family planning
outlets in existing health facilities of public sector
organizations by providing travel and per diem for training field
staff, and a contract for training trainers.
Project Administration, Evaluation and Preparation of Future Projects
(a) Project Administration: Establishing a Project Administration
Cell (PAC) in the Population Welfare Division by financing



- 17 -
salaries, travel and per diem for supervision, vehicles for
national and provincial population offices, vehicle operation,
and maintenance;
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation: Financing consultant services, travel
and per diem, data processing and other operating costs for
undertaking, in project and control districts the following
evaluation activities: (i) yearly samples of FWCs for task
analyses through observers; (ii) two FWC cost-effectiveness
studies based on information from the regular service statistics
and financial/accounting systems; (iii) one baseline and one
mid-project management audit of streams of administrative
processes in each province; (iv) two marketing-type sample
surveys on receptivity of FWCs among communities; and (v) block
allocation for studies on program acceptance and fertility
determinants; and
(c)  Preparation of Future Projects:  Consultant services of an
engineering adviser and architectural firm(s) for preliminary
design and detailed drawings of 12-14 training buildings, and
travel and per diem for the following project preparation
activities: (i) selecting and acquiring sites; (ii) planning
accommodation requirements and preparing detailed accommodation
schedules; and (iii) producing engineering designs, and detailed
drawings.
Innovative Activities:
2.08      Approximately 3% of the total base cost will be allocated to
small-scale experimental programs to be identified during the project
period. UK-ODA is considering financing of this component. Each proposal
would be reviewed by ODA and IDA before implementation.
E. Detailed Project Features
National Scope Components
2.09      Program Training: This component, under the Directorate of
Program Training and Education, would assist in establishing two Population
Welfare Training Institutes--one in Lahore to serve the province of Punjab,
with staff in Peshawar to cover NWFP and one in Karachi to serve the
province of Sind, with staff in Quetta to train workers in Baluchistan.
The Directorate would be responsible for undertaking and/or assigning to
the training institutes development of course curricula, teaching aids, and
training manuals; it would also have a program of continued education for
trainers, including a master trainers program. All institutes will
function in rented buildings; although there is a clear need for providing
permanent facilities for all training activities of the population program
in the medium term, the immediate priority is to build up the training
organization; also, an effective appraisal of physical facility needs would
not have been possible before the preparation of operational plans;
accordingly, the project will finance the necessary preparatory work for
the construction of about 14 training institutes. Clinical and
non-clinical training activities should take place in a single building in
those locations where PWTIs are operating. Financing of construction would



- 18 -
be sought through another project; preparation would start in the near
future, with support from the present project (arrangements for preparation
of future projects are described in para. 4.01).
2.10      Each Institute would perform the following functions: (a) develop
and update annual regional training plans and assist district officers in
preparing local training plans; (b) develop curricula, materials and
manuals for various courses to be given either by PWTI staff, or district
officers, or trainers of other government departments and institutions; (c)
train trainers and offer them support, technical assistance and monitoring;
(d) define and manage contracts with consultants, firms and private
organizations to assist PWTIs in their various tasks; (e) design and
conduct selective orientation sessions on the population welfare program
(although their main function vis-a-vis training of non-population workers
would be to monitor and support such sessions conducted by other
departments and institutions); (f) periodically evaluate all training
programs and revise curricula as necessary; and (g) identify needs for
training in management, jointly with the management of the Population
Welfare Division, and conduct and/or arrange for such training. v
2.11      Progress of this component would be evaluated by measurement of
accomplishments in the training process. Indicators include: recruitment
of the full complement of training staff by the end of the first year;
development and approval of the annual training plan by May of each year;
courses proceeding at least 70% on schedule during the first year and 85%
in subsequent years; and timely availability of funds. The Government
would, no later than September 1, 1983, appoint qualified staff to all
teaching positions in the two PWTIs.
2.12      Several consultancies are included in the project to assist
managers from PWTIs and at provincial and district levels, design, organize
and evaluate training programs, including preparation of detailed workplans
which should identify key actions and assign responsibilities. No later
than September 1, 1983 the Government would appoint an IEC training/
planning consultant to advise, inter alia, on management of training
programs; and by May of each year, beginning May 1, 1983, it will cause the
Population Welfare Division to approve annual national training plans and
specific district training plans to be produced by the PWTIs.
2.13      Information, Education and Communication: The wide gap between
awareness and practice of family planning and the need to change the public
image of the population program from a single purpose approach to a
multi-sectoral effort requires a reorganized and revitalized IEC structure
and program, utilizing a blend of channels from face-to-face communication
to group meetings and mass media. The main focus of this component is to
encourage the adoption of the small family norm and to assist in removing
resistance to contraceptive use. The IEC strategy consists of identifying
and addressing specific target audiences through a variety of channels,
each one having a particular role in achieving program goals. A chart in
Annex 5 presents target audiences, main messages and channels to guide
provincial and district annual workplans.
2.14      It is widely accepted that behavioral changes on personal matters
such as family planning and certain health behaviors are most likely to



- 19 -
occur when information and advice are given through interpersonal exchanges
among trusted peers. Therefore, the preferred form for direct family
planning motivation will be individual or group discussion in which the
provider of information and advice will be a knowledgeable member of the
local community (such as satisfied acceptors and service providers). The
project design encourages community participation using approaches tested
in other social action programs. Each local community has its own
particular infrastructure of influence and leadership. Program
effectiveness will depend on correct identification and collaboration with
these indigenous systems, coupled with coordinated support from mass media
and other channels.
2.15      Interpersonal communication and group discussions would be
facilitated by appropriate audio-visual (AV) equipment, production of
publicity and educational materials (print, film strips with discussion
formats put together as "motivational kits"), and cassette players with
pre-recorded scripts. Regular testing and evaluation of AV materials would
lead to revisions to meet needs as the program evolves. While AV aids are
useful for small group situations, each district will also operate an AV
van, equipped with 16mm motion picture projector for use with large
groups. The vans will be used to show entertainment features--including
dramas, puppets, local entertainers' films--and to make announcements about
FWC activities. This has been effective at gathering large groups in the
past. Such events can be recorded and transferred to 16mm film for showing
to larger audiences in nearby areas. Careful training of communication
staff and fieldworkers is required to ensure that program objectives remain
the focus of all interactions. In addition to a clear understanding of the
Plan, all field staff must acquire command of motivational techniques and
of a basic repertoire of issues and answers concerning family planning in
relation to health, Islam, and local/national development. There will also
be structured workshops and seminars for special interest groups designed
to expose, inform, and elicit support for the program among leaders,
indigenous entertainers, officials of other departments or any other group.
2.16      Considerable controversy has surrounded the use of mass media for
the population program in the past. In view of low access, television will
be used only for legitimizing the new plan through spot announcements, news
items and documentaries, incorporation of the small family norm in
entertainment programming, and dissemination of the six broad "themes"
identified in the plan (breastfeeding; nutrition of the growing child; late
marriage; responsibility of the father; desirable MCH practices and status
of women) relating them with services offered at FWCs and other
participating outlets. Television could also carry interviews with various
leaders and professionals endorsing the concept of the FWC as a community
service center. Whenever possible, FWC staff and volunteers should
endeavor to establish links with the mass media by forming viewing and
discussion groups when a program concerning population welfare matters is
to be broadcast (e.g. population education programs for teachers--para.
2.19--could be watched by AMC members and other community leaders). Radio
has been used with considerable success in many programs, both in Pakistan
and elsewhere; its outreach is much greater than television and it can be
extended even further by recording popular drama or comedy programs with
population welfare related content for subsequent re-playing by workers and
volunteers on cassette players. Radio can be used effectively for



- 20 -
broadcasting interviews about FWC activities with FWC staff and volunteers
as a way of enhancing workers' pr(estige and generating interest in the
program. Print media (mainly press) will be used to reach literate,
influential persons and promote the program.  Given the influence of
elites, an increase in press coverage can contribute greatly to a deeper
understanding of issues and lessen resistence. Consistency of messages and
use of multiple and credible media should tap latent interest in family
welfare and planning, and, along with service availability, create new
demand.
2.17      An IEC organization wilL be established through this project,
capable of designing, implementing and evaluating programs for a wide range
of audiences, through multiple channels,-encompassing the program described
above; it would also provide communication training, supervision, manuals,
and educational materials to workers and volunteers (IEC organization chart
in Annex 8, Chart 5). At the nat:ional level, a Directorate of
Communication and Production (C&PD), in Lahore, with three divisions and
one section for production and publications, will be responsible for, inter
alia, developing and obtaining po:Licy clearances, designing, testing and
reproducing materials, overseeing IEC staff selection at all levels;
maintaining regular contacts with the training directorates; supporting the
provincial and district IEC-training staff; and developing and implementing
IEC workplans using appropriate media and strategies based on evaluation/
research findings. The Government would, no later than December 1, 1983,
contract the services of a C&P Director and a Deputy Director for the IEC
Unit in the National C&P Directorate, whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to IDA, and it will create and appoint qualified
staff to the following IEC positions: about 15 at national, 15 at
provincial, and 130 at district levels. In each of the four provinces, a
Deputy Director for IEC reporting to the Population Director General will
be the manager of the IEC field program. Each district will be staffed by
a communication officer with responsibilities for training, follow-up and
supervision of FWC staff and volunteers concerning their IEC work, as well
as for field-level coordination with other government departments. The C&P
Directorate will be supported by 36 man-months of national and 12
man-months of international consultant services for preparation of
operational plans and management, mass media planning and programming, and
communication training. By September 1, 1983 the Government would appoint
an IEC materials design and production consultant.
2.18      IEC program activities will be managed on the basis of annual
master plans and detailed workplans for the national IEC organization, and
the provincial and district IEC staff. The master plans will be based on
an analysis of key target audiences, messages, channels to reach those
audiences, objectives and outcomes, and timetables identifying persons and
organizations responsible. The concept is not, however, to create
cumbersome documentation systems but to provide for sufficiently
well-planned approaches so as to evolve management and follow-up procedures
which can produce a truly supportive IEC operation. In the first two
years, the IEC sub-component will be evaluated through indicators that
gauge success in creating an organization capable of carrying out the IEC
program. In the last two years (1985-86) evaluation will be more focused
on family planning acceptance (list of indicators in Annex 5).



- 21 -
2.19      Population Education in the Formal School System: This national
sub-component seeks to reinforce the population education program currently
in existance in the formal school system of the Ministry of Education in
Pakistan since 1974. It intends to reach 2.2 million students from
intermediate and secondary levels with instruction that will encourage
critical thinking in relating population dynamics to its effects upon
communities and families. A second objective is to provide teachers with
an understanding of the consequences of population growth for the country,
the community and the family and fully acquaint them with the objectives
and activities of the population welfare program, encouraging them to
assume a leadership role in creating awareness of population issues among
students and the community.  Teacher training will be supplemented by
correspondence courses to be conducted by the Open University, with
appropriate radio, television, and seminars. The project would train
36,000 teachers and prepare instructional materials comprising 18,000
teachers' guides, 34,000 training manuals for teachers, and 16,000
audio-visual kits. To administer this sub-program, the project will expand
the population education functions in the Population Welfare Division,
currently performed by an education subject specialist. The Government
would: (i) no later than by September 1, 1983, employ an instructor
in the Population Division's Directorate of Program Training and Education;
(ii) no later than January 1, 1984, it will formalize in writing the
understanding between the Population Welfare Division and the Ministry of
Education, stating the roles and responsibilities of each Federal Division
and provincial education department, and the budget provisions; and (iii)
no later than July 1, 1984, it will create a population education cell in
MOE staffed with qualified and experienced staff, including a population
education specialist.
2.20      Population education concepts are already included in the school
curricula of teachers' courses and primary level courses in sciences,
social studies, and languages (Urdu and English). The project would enable
preparation of instructional and textbook units for grades 1 to 3. In
addition, it would assist integration of population concepts in the ten
subjects taught in grades 11 and 12 of the intermediate level, the review
of existing textbooks for content on population education, and the
development of curricula content for grades 4 to 10. This sequence follows
the current schedule of overall curricula development and textbook review
of the Federal MOE and provincial departments of education. This
sub-component will be evaluated by the extent of adherence to schedules and
workplans, teachers' effectiveness as community motivators, and frequency
of population education sessions as part of classroom instruction.
Evaluation of the impact in student knowledge and attitudes will not be
possible within the project period, since any changes in those variables
are likely to emerge only after the system has been in operation for a
longer period (say 8 to 10 years).
Regional Component
2.21      This component provides coordinated packages of new program
activities in thirteen districts with a total of about 20 million
population. Socio-economic indicators for project districts are shown in
Annex 8, Table 3. Of these districts, four have a high population



- 22 -
density--three in Karachi averaging 3,930 persons per square mile; and
Sheikhupura in Punjab Province with 913. These districts include towns and
cities where public response to planned parenthood concepts may be more
readily forthcoming than in the rest of the country. Five other districts
in NWFP and Baluchistan provinces were selected in spite of present low
levels of program acceptability, to make at least a beginning with new
program activities in all provinces. Jhang and Multan in Punjab and
Tharparkar and Sukkur in Sind, agricultural districts with past low program
performance, were selected to take advantage of other community development
activities currently under way through other programs, to test the effects
of simultaneous inputs in community development and population activities
among low literacy, agricultural populations.
2.22      The project would implement three sub-programs of the Plan in
the selected districts: (a) FWCs; (b) family planning service outlets of
other government departments; and (c) family planning outlets in target
group institutions. Most contraceptives to be dispensed in project areas
will be financed by USAID; UNFPA will provide injectables; IUDS are locally
produced and are financed by the GOP and USAID. Other Plan sub-programs
and "projects" would also take place in those districts, either financed as
part of the national project component (i.e. program training, IEC, and
population education in schools including teacher training) or by other
donors--e.g. clinical trainig of health and FWC staff, contraceptive
surgery in RHS centers, family planning services to be offered by hakims,
under UNFPA financing; and support activities such as the client record
system, logistics and distribution, and research, supported by USAID. The
main differences between project and non-project districts would be that in
the former:
(a)  the various activities would be programmed on a monthly basis and
operational plans and schedules would be prepared by each work
unit and individual staff and used by DPWOs to monitor progress,
identify problems and offer support;
(b)  several new approaches, especially the FWC concept, cooperation
with health departments and other institutions, and IEC
activities, would be first tested in project districts, thus
encouraging a phased implementation of activities whose design
may need adaptation and modification before nationwide extension;
(c)  additional resources from the project would be available in
project districts for changing staffing patterns of FWCs as the
work volume increases; making financial and technical resources
available to health departments and other institutions to provide
family planning services; providing adequate incentives to
volunteers; supplementing rent allowances for appropriate housing
and location of FWCs; providing for appropriate maintenance of
equipment and centers;
(d)  contractual medical services would be available for advising and
assisting in the implementation of improved service, supervision
and referrals in FWCs and other FP service outlets; and



- 23 -
(e) a comprehensive evaluation scheme would be an on-going activity
in project and control districts, to provide reliable information
for future program planning (see para. 4.04 to 4.06 on
evaluation).
2.23      Family Welfare Centers: The project would assist in conversion of
about 250 clinics remaining from the old population program, which were
single purpose family planning service points with some ad hoc curative
functions, into FP/MCH/community development centers, named FWCs. The
project would also assist the establishment of 42 FWCs in locations
selected for their easy access and complementarity with other health
outlets. Location criteria aim at high utilization (over 70% of
capacity). All FWCs will continue to function in rented premises; the GOP
has increased rent allowances to enable relocation of centers to more
spacious (3-4 rooms and one verandah) and better situated buildings, in
accordance with the new functions. The major thrust of the FWC sub-program
was conceived and described in the new Population Plan. Technical and
administrative details, staff functions and operational details of support
community structures were developed by a working group of the Population
Welfare Division.3/ The description that follows presents the highlights
of the activities that this project will support within the FWC system.
2.24      Advisory Management Committees are forming in each FWC area to
facilitate and support the centers' functions (para. 1.21). The AMC is
expected to: (a) assist as necessary in obtaining physical facilities for
FWCs, and maintaining them; (b) identify and recruit community volunteers;
and (c) be the channel for identifying genuine community needs, working out
a community activity plan, seeking funding and mobilizing community
resources, and establishing links with relevant Government departments.
The DPWO assists the AMC in mobilizing public resources, guides it in
technical and administrative matters, and oversees the Committee's
administration of funds.
2.25      Each center is staffed by five workers: a Family Welfare Worker,
one female Family Welfare Assistant (FFWA), a male Family Welfare Assistant
(MFWA) and two support staff. A Family Welfare Counsellor reporting to the
DPWO supervises two centers and spends two weeks of the month in each
centre. The FWW, who is in charge of the center, provides antenatal,
delivery and postnatal care to mothers; family planning advice and services
(i.e. pill dispensation, distribution of condoms and other conventional
contraceptives, IUD insertions, and injectables); nutrition surveillance of
children under 5 years; pediatric care (including diarrhea treatment),
immunizations (when no other immunization centers are available); and
health education of mothers. When a client chooses contraceptive surgery
she is referred to a RHS center. The FFWA helps the FWW in clinic work and
devo,tes over 50% of her time to educational and promotional activities in
the center, in the community and with volunteer workers. The MFWA has
education, motivation and distribution of contraceptives to other service
outlets and to clients as his main functions; he works mainly in the
community, prepares community profiles and assists in the developmental
/3 A document entitled "The Functions, Resources and Management of
Family Welfare Centers" (Dec. 1981), which constitutes the basis for
operating these centers, was prepared with IDA PPF assistance.



- 24 -
activities of the center and distributes contraceptives. Workload may vary
among centers according to accessibility and utilization. In order to
allow for these differences, the project makes provision for the creation
of up to 80 additional positions for FWWs and FWAs in FY85. The Population
Welfare Division would submit a reaport to IDA for review and comment no
later than July 1, 1984 stating the need, if any, for varying staffing
patterns in FWCs within the project districts and, no later than December
1, 1984, would implement recommendations satisfactory to IDA.
2.26      There is budgetary allocation of Rs 13,600 per year per FWC for
medicines.  In addition the center is supplied with contraceptives, which
are sold at Rs 1 for a pill cycle and Rs 1 for 12 condoms. The logistics
and distribution system is explained in para. 1.28; a discussion on cost
recovery is presented starting in para. 5.01. The part-time resident
Family Welfare Counsellor provides first level technical supervision with
the assistance of a manual and a supervision booklet/checklist. This first
level clinical supervision is designed to be close and continuous. There
is second' level administrative supervision from the district office and
support through distribution of materials, drugs and contraceptives, as
well as back-up for IEC activities. In the project districts, the
population offices will have regular schedules for distribution of
materials, drugs and contraceptives and the district IEC-cum-training staff
will organize monthly programs of visits and specific back-up activities
for IEC/training. Quality of clinical work will be promoted through
part-time contracts for doctors to act selectively as service providers
and/or consultants in FWCs. Whenever available, lady doctors would be
engaged for these purposes. Pediatricians would be used as consultants in
selected FWCs to advise on child care.
2.27      For referral purposes, the center will keep a list of nearby
hospitals, health centers and outpatient departments, either Government or
private and the names of doctors in charge of maternity and children
sections. The FWW and the Counsellor are instructed to refer patients as
required to an appropriate medical center and the need for referral is
explained in the referral slip. The patient makes the choice of the center
and goes there on transport of her choice or availability. Obstetric
emergencies are admitted to all Government hospitals immediately and
without questions. The function of the FWC in such cases will be to assist
in obtaining transport.
2.28      In the three districts of Karachi, FWCs would be organized and
run somewhat differently than in the rest of the project areas, to take
into account the greater potential for attracting clientele and the
importance of offering services that live up to expectations of the urban
public. Also, the project will test the alternative of obtaining
cooperation from private sector associations to run a few of these
centers. The Population Welfare Division will provide funds to the NGOs
equivalent to the standard cost of running a center, and perhaps trained
staff, and the private organization would agree to contribute additional
funds and voluntary manpower for administering the centers and for bringing
them up to pre-agreed higher standards of services. This partnership with
the private sector would be tested as a way of improving rapidly the
quality and utilization of FWCs.



- 25 -
2.29      The AMC will recruit 20-30 community volunteers to function as
outreach/IEC workers, extend certain services of the FWC to the community,
and assist in organizing and carrying out community activities. The CVs
are oriented and trained for their respective assignments by the FWC staff
with the assistance of the IEC district staff. Their services can be
particularly valuable in identifying adaptations of FWC programs to meet
community needs and the imperatives of local customs and traditions. The
Plan provides periodic prizes to best CVs following pre-agreed criteria.
The tasks of CVs include: informing the families in the community about FWC
activities and services and encouraging them to use those centers;
in collaboration with the dais, encouraging women to space births through
lactation and contraception and explaining the advantages of family
planning; referring interested women to FWCs; and distributing non-clinical
contraceptives.
2.30      The NWC staff is responsible for establishing an appropriate
program for women's meetings at the centers and stimulating the AMC to take
at least one project in skill development and income generation at a time.
In selecting any activity, the AMC and the staff should ensure that the
priority and focus of population welfare is maintained. Among the income
generating activities two types may be distinguished: (a) those which
result in products that can be marketed and (b) those which benefit the
families by extending the family budget.  The Plan provides that the FWC
will receive seed money for community activities through the District
Population Offices; on request by the AMC, a year's entitlement may be
advanced in a lump sum and deposited in a FWC account jointly operated by
the AMC Chairman and the FWW. Decisions on use of funds are taken
autonomously by the AMC. The DPWO and DG will be kept informed of
expenditure decisions through minutes or direct communication. The DPWO
evaluates seed money expenditures and provides guidance as necessary.
By December 1, 1983 the Population Welfare Division would finalize a manual
on functions, resources and management of a FWC (see para. 2.23) and
circulate it widely throughout provincial and district population welfare
offices, for use as a guideline in implementing this component. Indication
of good progress in the implementation of the FWC sub-component are listed
in Annex 5.
2.31      Family Planning Service Outlets of Other Government Departments:
This sub-component would introduce family planning services and
education/motivation in 700 health facilities of several provincial
government departments and local bodies. All four provincial population
DGs are preparing action plans with the respective secretaries of health
and of other sectors. Since RTIs have a heavy load with the training of
the clinical staff of the Population Division (mainly FWWs, counsellors and
female FWAs), this sub-component would finance training in family planning
of six trainers from participating departments so that such training can be
institutionalized in the schools and auxiliary training centers of the
participating departments. The project would also provide equipment and
materials (including IEC aids) to participating health outlets, for service
delivery. Participating departments would be provided with an initial
supply of contraceptives; the funds obtained from initial sales to clients
would be kept by each department as a revolving fund for subsequent
purchases. Indication of good progress in the implementation of this
sub-component would be: (a) by mid-1983, 25% of the outlets would be



- 26 -
offering family planning services and by July 1985, 80% of outlets would be
offering such services; and (b) by mid-1984, six trainers from partici-
pating departments would have been trained in family planning and would
have started training courses for the staff in their respective depart-
ments.
2.32      Family Planning Service Outlets of "Target Group" Institutions:
The objectives and design of this sub-component are similar to those
previously described for service outlets in other provincial government
departments, however it will be ad[ministered in a slightly different way.
Public sector institutions relate to the Federal Government, therefore,
this component would be a responsibility of the Federal Population
Welfare Division, assisted by the provincial population directorates as
required. Public sector institutions would provide family planning
services and information/education to their employees and families through
50 health outlets that those organizations have in the project districts.
The main institutions are: Armed F'orces, WAPDA (10,000 persons covered),
Fauji Foundation (1,650), Pakistan International Airlines (11,000),
Pakistan Railways (25,000) and Pakistan Steel Mills (50,000). The project
would train staff in clinical aspects of family planning, as well as in
motivation/education as would be relevant to various types of staff
(non-clinical training for staff of these institutions is included under
the national program training sub--component of this project). It would
also finance training of six trainers, one each from the respective
organization, to institutionalize FP training. The institutions would buy
contraceptives from the Population Welfare Division and the project would
provide IEC printed and audio-visual materials and would assist in
preparing various IEC activities for the constituents of those
organizations. Planning, monitoring and evaluation of family planning
operations will be undertaken by population project committees to be
established under the head offices of each institution. These committees
will meet quarterly to review and report on progress. The Population
Welfare Division will provide guiclelines and forms to the institutions for
simple reporting on performance and will assist in analyzing progress
reports and providing comments and suggestions for changes or improvements
if necessary. The provincial population directorates would prepare
annual plans of action for operation of family planning outlets in health
facilities of other provincial government departments and public sector
institutions located in project districts, and by July 1 of each year,
beginning in 1983, obtain agreement to such plans from the relevant
departments/institutions.
2.33      Indicators of good progress in the implementation of this
sub-component would be:(a) by mid--1983, 35% of the outlets would be
offering family planning services and by mid-1985, 90% of the outlets would
be offering such services; and (b) by mid-1984, six trainers from the
participating institutions would have been trained in family planning and
would have started training courses for the staff in the respective
institution.



- 27 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A. Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
3.01      Total project base cost for the implementation period (July 1,
1982 to June 30, 1986) is estimated at US$23.9 million equivalent at prices
of May 1982. To this should be added US$0.2 million of physical
contingencies and US$4.1 million of price contingencies, for a total
estimated project cost of US$28.2 million equivalent with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$7.9 million (28% of total project cost).
Total cost includes about US$1 million in taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies are assumed to be 5% of equipment, vehicles, and equipment
and vehicle operation. Price contingencies (%) are estimated as follows:
FY83      FY84       FY85       FY86
Foreign Costs              8%        8%        7.5%        7%
Local Costs                8.0%      7.8%      7.0%        6.5%
Investment costs--including equipment, consultants and fellowships,
training and seed funds for community development--account for 33.1% of the
base cost; operating and maintenance costs, for 64.0%; and innovative
activities (yet to be programmed and therefore not divided by capital and
operating costs), for 2.9% of total base cost. The advance from IDA's
Project Preparation Facility accounts for 1.2% of total base cost. Local
consultant services are costed at an average of US$784 per man-month and
foreign consultant services, at US$12,400 per man-month including all
expenses. Estimated project costs, detailed in Annex 2, are summarized in
Table 3.1.



-- 28 -
TABLE 3.1: ESDi'ATED PROJEUC ODSTS
Rs Million                     US$ Million
Expenditure Category         Local      Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign        Total
I.  Investment Costs
1. Equipment and vehicles         7.3       19.1       26.4        .6       1.5         2.1
2. Consultant services            4.6        1.9        6.5        .3        .2           .5
3. Training (salaries, per
diem and travel, vehicle
operation, materials and
rent)                         38.8         .3       39.1       3.1        .0          3.1
4. Administration and sub-
sequent preparation           11.1        8.0        19.1       .9        .6          1.5
5. Evaluation, special studies
and seed funds                 4.3        1.2        5.5        .3        .1           .4
6. PPF                            0.9        2.6        3.5        .1        .2           .3
Suib-total, Investment        67.0       33.1       100.1      5.3       2.6          7.9
II. Operating Costs
7. Salaries                      75.8         -        75.8       5.9        -           5.9
8. Per diem, travel and
vehicle operation             13.3        2.1        15.4      1.0        .2          1.2
9. Expendable materials, rent,
drugs, and maintenance        52.8        8.2        61.0      4.2        .6          4.8
10. Contraceptives                  .1       43.9       44.0        .0       3.4         3.4
Sub-total, operating
142.0      54.2       196.2      11.1      4.2         15.3
IIn. Innovative Activities             6.6       2.2         8.8        .5        .2           .7
Base Cost                 215.6       89.5       305.1     16.9       7.0         23.9
11. Physical contingencies          .7        1.3        2.0        .0        .2           .2
12. Price contingencies           50.0       8.9        58.9       3.4        .7         4.1
Total Cost                   266.3       99.7       366.0     20.3       7.9         28.2
3.02        The distribution of base project costs by function shows that the
largest allocation is made for IEC activities (45%); the next largest share
is for services (33%); and the remainder is devoted to training (11%),
project administration and preparation (8%), evaluation (1%) and a block
allocation for innovative activities (3%). Table 3.2 presents a summary of
costs by functional category and components.



- 29 -
Table 3.2: COST SUMMARY BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES
Categories                                          US$ Million
Functional Category                Rs Million           Equivalent
A. National Component
1. Training (PWTIs)                         33.1                  2.6
2. IEC                                      66.7                  5.2
3. Population Education in Schools          15.7                   1.2
(IEC)
4. Administration, Preparation and
PPF                                      22.5                  1.8
5. Evaluation                                3.4                    .3
6. Innovative Activities                     8.8                    .7
Sub-total A.                               150.2                 11.8
B. Regional Component
7. FWCs (services, 50%; IEC 50%)           106.5                  8.4
8. Services, other departments               4.3                    .3
9. Services, Target Group
Institutions                               .2                   .0
10. Contraceptives (services)                44.0                  3.4
Sub-total B.                            155.0                 12.1
Base Cost                               305.1                 23.9
Physical Contingencies                    2.0                   .2
Price Contingencies                      58.9                  4.1
Total Cost                              366.0                 28.2
B. Financing
3.03      The proposed IDA credit is US$18 million, or about 66% of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. It is expected that USAID would
finance, in parallel, US$3.4 million for contraceptives, which is 100%
foreign exchange (42% of the foreign exchange cost of the project) or
12% of the total project cost. UK-ODA is expected to make a grant of
US$2.7 million equivalent (which is 63% foreign exchange and would finance
22% of the foreign exchange or 10% net total costs) under parallel
arrangements and on terms and conditions to be set out in a UK Grant
Document. Effectiveness of the UK Grant Document would be an additional
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit. The GOP would
finance the remainder, amounting to US$4.1 million equivalent (including
taxes and duties), from their budgetary resources, which would amount to
15% of the total project cost. Approval of the project's PC-1 by ECNEC, or
appropriate approving authority, would be an additional condition of credit
effectiveness. The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 3.3.
The IDA credit of US$18 million would finance 36% of the foreign exchange
cost, and 75% of the local costs.



- 30 -
Table 3.3: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING (US$ Million)
Total 
Expenditure Categories    Cost       GOP    IDA   ODA-UK  USAID    IDA
1.  Equipment                    .7       .1    .6                    IDA 100% of imported
and ex-factory; 75%
of locally procured
2.  Vehicles                    1.4       .3            1.1
3.  Consultant services          .5             .5
4.  Training                    3.1       .2   2.9                    IDA 95%
5. Project administration
cell                        .5             .5                   IDA 95%
6. Subsequent project
preparation                 .9             .9
7.  Evaluation studies           .3                      .3
8.  Seed funds                   .2                      .2
9.  Innovative activities        .7                      .7
10.  Operating costs            11.9      2.9   9.0                    IDA 90%,90%,75%,55%
11.  Contraceptives              3.4                             3.4
12. Project preparation
facility                    .3             .3              -
Base costs             23.9      3.5  14.7      2.3    3.4
Contingencies           4.3       .6   3.3       .4
TOTAL             28.2      4.1  18.0      2.7    3.4
(of which taxes)      1.1      1.1
/1  This includes salaries, travel and per diem, vehicle operation,
materials, medicines, rent and maintenance.
C. Procurement
3.04      Responsibility for procurement and distribution of equipment,
materials and contraceptives rests with the Director, Supplies and
Services, Population Welfare Division in Islamabad and the Central
Warehouse and Supplies Office in Karachi.  Procurement actions are
initiated and authorized by the Director, Supplies and Services, on the
basis of information concerning requirements for equipment, materials,
contraceptives, vehicles and spare parts which it collects from the
population organization; it also places indents with the various
external donors through the Director, Foreign Assistance and the Joint
Secretary, Planning. The latter procedure is followed to obtain
contraceptives (mainly from USAID) and materials, equipment and
vehicles (mainly from bilateral donors and UNICEF); in those
cases, the Directorate of Supplies and Services does not have to
prepare specifications for procurement, since it requests the products
or equipment by their trade name.



- 31 -
3.05      For procurement under local competitive bidding (LCB), the
Directorate of Supplies and Services will be responsible for preparation of
specification, tender documents, advertising in national newspapers,
evaluating bids, and awarding contracts, on the basis of at least three
bids. Under regular Government procedures, procurement of vehicles and
equipment through international competitive bidding (ICB) is the
responsibility of the Department of Supplies, Ministry of Industries (MOI),
Karachi. When ICB is required, the Population Welfare Division's
Directorate of Supplies and Services would be responsible for preparing
specifications and tender documents, seeking IDA's review as required for
contracts over specific limits (para. 3.10) and, after IDA's agreement,
drafting advertisements for local newspapers, Procurement Forum and
announcements to embassies of IDA member countries in Islamabad (and in
Switzerland). It would then place indents for such ICB procurement on the
Department of Supplies, MOI, which is responsible for issuing tender
documents, preparing technical and financial evaluation of bids and
recommending award to Controller of Stores. The latter would submit award
recommendation to the Population Welfare Division's Project Coordinator/
Joint Secretary, Planning, who, for contracts over specified amounts
(para. 3.10), would seek IDA's concurrence; the contract for supply of
equipment or vehicles would then be awarded by the Department of Supplies,
MOI. The Population Welfare Division's S&S Directorate would make its
Karachi Ce:fral Warehouse responsible for following up with MOI's
Department of Supplies on all initiated requests for ICB. All procurement
under USAID (contraceptives) and UK-ODA parallel financing would be done
following those agencies' procedures and practices.
3.06      This project entails no new construction.  For maintenance of
small and scattered service and training facilities, a single contract,
even for urban areas would not be practical. For these contracts, the
provincial population D.G.s would invite proposals and cost estimates from
local contractors, through FWWs. At least three bids should be available
to recommend award of contract.
3.07      For equipment, furniture and materials, contracts of US$30,000
and above would be let through ICB. Contracts below US$30,000 but above
US$5,000 equivalent, in aggregate not exceeding US$150,000 equivalent,
would be let through LCB. For small purchases of up to US$5,000 each but
in aggregate not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent local shopping could be
used but at least three quotations would have to be obtained. Local
manufacturers participating in ICB would be accorded a preference in bid
evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.
3.08      The procedure of procuring medicines and medical supplies on an
annual basis by each Provincial Director General, Population, followed for
several years was found satisfactory and would be continued under the
project. D.G. offices prepare lists of drug and materials requirements by
FWCs and RHSs. Requirements are requested through advertising in the
provincial capital city and local druggists submit bids which are opened at
a specified date, in the presence of suppliers or their representatives.
Lowest bids are awarded the contract. Samples of medicines are sent to GOP
Laboratories for testing for potency and quality; payments are made to
suppliers after lab certifications are received.



- 32 -
3.09      All bidding packages for goods above US$30,000 equivalent would
be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in
a coverage of 70% and 80% respectively, of total estimated value of those
items. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post-review by
IDA.
3.10      SSD experience on procuremient is confined to acquisitions through
local shopping, and preparation of requests for equipment, vehicles and
materials which are procured abroad and sent to Pakistan by the donor
agencies. This IDA project would be the first substantial experience for
SSD in procurement procedures involvLng extensive LCB and some ICB. The
Government would employ and maintain sufficient qualified staff with
experience in procurement, logistics and management, specifically a
Director and a Deputy Director of Supplies and Services in Islamabad, and a
Deputy Director in its Central Warehouse and Supplies Office in Karachi.
D. Disbursements
3.11      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made for up to:  (a) 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported and of ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment and materials and 75% of local expenditures
of locally procured equipment and materials; (b) 100% of total expenditures
for consultants' services, preparation of a mid-censal survey and
subsequent projects; (c) 95% of total expenditures for national training
and project administration; and (d) 90% through June 30, 1984; 75% through
June 30, 1985; and 55% through June 30, 1986, of operating costs.
Disbursements for items (a) and (b) would be made against full
documentation according to normal IDA procedures. Disbursements under (c)
and (d) would be made against statement of expenditures; supporting
documents would be retained for at least two years by the Project
Administrative Cell (PAC) (see para. 4.01), for review by IDA. Before
commencement of each fiscal year, the PAC would prepare and submit to IDA
annual budgets for fellowships, training, project administration and
operating costs, with the necessary detail on courses and line items. Such
budgets would be used by IDA as references for making disbursements against
statement of expenditures. The latter would be prepared by the PAC and
certified by the Population Welfare Dlivision's Finance Director.
3.12      The PAC will receive all information on expenses from the
provincial DGs and will assist the Deputy Director, Finance and Accounts,
in preparing withdrawal applications for submission to IDA, and in ensuring
that all supporting documentation is attached to the withdrawal
applications. Normally, a reimbursement application should cover
accumulated reimbursable costs of Rs 500,000 or more. The Cell would
maintain consolidated budget control for the project. It is anticipated
that the final disbursements of this credit would be made by March 31,
1987, nine months after completion of implementation. The projected
disbursement schedule (Annex 7) is based on actual programming of
activities adjusted by using disbursement profiles for similar projects in
Pakistan. The project includes US$1.5 million of retroactive financing for
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1982 for consultant services, training
and operating costs.   A PPF advance of US$290,000, approved by IDA in July
1981, would be disbursed before credit effectiveness, and repaid out of the
proceeds of the credit.



- 33 --
E. Accounts and Audits
3.13      The project would be subject to normal Government accounting and
auditing procedures, which are considered satisfactory to IDA. The
Government would ensure that: (a) separate project accounts will be
maintained by both its Federal Directorate of Finance and the   provincial
population offices; (b) project accounts will be audited annually and
separately by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (c) copies of the
unaudited accounts be sent to IDA for review, no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the
audited accounts and auditors' report within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year; and (d) related accounts and financial statements, with full
documentation, will be made available during IDA review missions.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01      Overall responsibility for project management rests with the
Federal Population Welfare Division in the Ministry of Planning and
Development. Chart 4 in Annex 8 outlines responsibilities for coordination
and implementation of each project sub-component. A Project Administration
Cell (PAC) is being established in the Population Welfare Division under
the Joint Secretary, Planning, who has been designated Project
Coordinator. The Cell's main functions and responsibilities include: (a)
day-to-day handling of administrative matters; (b) liaison with several
population directorates, provincial population offices and IDA concerning
accounting (with Finance Directorate) and disbursements (with SS
Directorate), consultant clearances, and recruitment and preparation of
consultant and other contracts; (c) compilation of quarterly reports on
project progress in relation to timetables; and (d) remittance of reports,
status of project accounts, and audits to IDA as specified elsewhere. In
addition to those functions, the PAC would be responsible for administering
the preparation of a future project. For this purpose it would engage an
Engineering Adviser who, with the assistance of consulting architectural
firm(s) would: (a) determine specific needs for training buildings, prepare
schedules of accommodation, select and obtain clearances for acquiring
sites; (b) proceed to site acquisition; and (c) supervise building design,
working drawings and detailed engineering plans. The GOP would be required
to maintain the PAC within the Population Welfare Division with qualified
staff in sufficient numbers to, inter alia, handle project accounts,
provide guidance to provincial offices and be responsible for withdrawal
applications.
B. Consultant Services
4.02      An array of national and internationally recruited consultant
services would complement the above institutional arrangements to implement
this project. The credit would finance 240 months of local and 52 months
of foreign consultant services and several contracts for production of
materials and studies; summary tables with details on subject, duration and
timing of consultancies and nature of surveys, studies and contracts are
included in Annex 3. Administration of contracts and recruitment for
consultancies would be handled by the PAC; technical responsibility for
preparing detailed terms of reference, initiating consultant requests,



- 34 -
agreeing on selection, designating counterparts, and ensuring proper
utilization of consultant services would rest with the directorate or
office in charge of the respective component to which the consultancy
applies. Quarterly reporting on project progress would include a section
on consultancies underway or completed and an assessment of achievements in
relation to stated objectives and terms of reference. The report would
also indicate reasons for any delays or changes in utilizing consultant
services, with respect to appraisal plans. For all consultants employed
for this project qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA, in accordance with the Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August, 1981).
C. Procedures for Identification/Appraisal and Implementation
of Minor Innovative Schemes/Studies
4.03      The re-initiation of the Population Program in Pakistan is based
on new strategies that may need adjustments and innovations as the new Plan
is implemented; a block allocation amounting to about 3% of project costs
has been included under the expenditure category "innovative activities"
and would be financed by UK-ODA to enable funding of additional activities
as may be agreed between the GOP, ODA and IDA from time to time. For each
innovative project activity, the Population Welfare Division would submit
to ODA for appraisal a detailed proposal, with a plan of operations and a
budget; IDA would review those proposals at ODA's request. It is advisable
that proposals for innovative activities be grouped and submitted once a
year to ODA by GOP.
D. Evaluation
4.04      This component would be financed by UK-ODA.  The objective of the
evaluation scheme for this project is to enable the collection of valid and
reliable information on project activities to assess: (a) process, by
monitoring progress in building up the organizational structure for the
program; and (b) program impact, in terms of increased services and
awareness creation and, toward the second part of this decade, a decrease
in fertility. The studies, surveys and continuous monitoring schemes which
are part of this project complement other assistance planned and agreed
between GOP and USAID for service information systems and research for
evaluating the national program.  The USAID assistance includes
strengthening of the statistical and research capability of the Population
Division by consolidating the existing research and statistics staff into a
reorganized and technically strengthened Population Development Center; it
also provides funds for several sltudies and surveys, including two national
contraceptive prevalence surveys (to be taken in 1983 and in 1985
respectively). The first would be used as a baseline for the program. In
addition, IDA, UK-ODA and GOP have obtained agreement from USAID that it
will oversample IDA project districts to obtain contraceptive prevalence
data which would be representative of those districts with a confidence
interval of about + 2%. Also a set of 12 questions with respect to all
live births in the sample would be added to the questionnaire to obtain
some MCH related information, useful for FWCs.
4.05      Evaluation activities under the project would be under the
responsibility of the PDC, assisted by several contracts with national and



- 35 -
external research institutions and consultants. The project description
specifies process indicators and levels of expected accomplishment for each
national sub-component(Annex 5, pp 1-2); changes in these indicators would
be followed up by the PDC using information from the existing service
statistics system and the quarterly project reports to be compiled by the
PAC. For the regional component, process evaluation would be done through
the following studies and surveys:
(a) Annual task analyses of a sample of FWCs and other FP outlets in
project and control districts would be conducted by independent
observers who would spend several days taking note of daily
activities at centers and interactions with the AMCs and the
community; these studies would be contracted by PDC to
universities or other survey organizations in the country; a
consultant would assist in study design and protocols;
(b) Annual cost-effectiveness desk studies of FWCs would use data
from the existing service statistics system and from the
accounting system; the PDC would engage consultants to assist in
designing the analysis, preparing computer programs and producing
a report with analysis and conclusions;
(c) Two Management Audits (one in 1983 and one at mid-term of
project) would consist of interviews and collection of other
information relating to samples of management streams of the
population organization involving project and non-project
districts, from the provincial offices to the field level; the
objective would be to observe management practices followed to
run services, supervision, logistics and community activities,
and to compare them with the procedures developed and described
in pre-project studies on "The Functions, Resources and
Management of Family Welfare Centers" and on "Staff Orientation
Program: Sessions on Work Planning"; for these audits the PAC, in
consultation with the Directorate for Administration and Finance,
would engage consultants to design the study and the required
instruments to guide interviews and data collection; and
(d) Two Marketing-type Samples on Public Acceptability of FWCs
would consist of interviews of small samples of persons living in
communities near FWCs, to gauge public reactions to such centers
and their services; the objective of these small scale, quick
surveys would be to detect problems of perception and
communication with the community and introduce remedial action;
other testing of IEC related activities may be added, probably
combining in one round of surveys several planned IEC
investigations; responsibility will rest with the C&P Directorate
Lahore, which will liaise as necessary with PDC; there is
provision for consultant services to design these surveys.
4.06      Although the main objective of this project is fertility
reduction, as shown above, evaluation will concentrate on measuring,
monitoring and evaluating the process through which an effective population
program should emerge, because there is concensus that any measurable
impact could not be expected to occur in the short-run. There is, however,



- 36 -
a major survey to measure program impact on fertility a--mid-censal
demographic survey whose preparation is included for project financing.
While the USAID sponsored CPSs should be entirely adequate to measure and
monitor changes in knowledge of contraceptive methods and program
acceptance, they are not primarily designed to assess changes in fertility
and infant mortality and only contain summary measures of these events. In
the case of Pakistan, with no reliable vital statistics and the next census
far in the future (1991), a single round fertility survey of ever-married
women in the reproductive age range will be the most cost-effective way of
detecting, quantifying and understanding changes in those demographic
variables in the mid-1980's, when such changes should be underway. A
report entitled "The Mid-Censal Demographic Survey for Pakistan" describes
in detail administrative and technical aspects. Financing of the
survey--which would take place around 1987--would need to be included under
a future project.
E. Implementation Schedule
4.07      The project implementation is scheduled for four years FY83-86
(Annex 4). The establishment and consolidation of national organizational
structures for program training, IEC, and Population Education in schools
would require two years. It is expected that by July 1984 those three
national sub-programs would be operating with a full complement of trained
staff. Although all new positions would be created and appointments
completed by September 1, 1983, orientation of the new staff on the
operational plans and their training would take another 6 months.
Appointment of a capable manager as head of the Directorate of
Communication and Production by December 1, 1983, and engagement of
consultants following agreed schedules are key actions to ensure that the
institutional development activities are implemented properly.
4.08      In project districts, the implementation schedules consist of
sequencing the actions of provincial population directorates and DPWOs so
that all FWCs could be operating under the new approach by July 1983.
During the second year of the project (FY84), project activities should
concentrate in improving quality of services offered, through scheduled
re-training and intensive supervision. Main responsibility for these
actions lies with RTIs, PWTIs, and DPWOs. Initiation of FP outlets in
other health facilities--the other main project activity in selected
districts--has been scheduled taking into account the pace at which the
RTIs can train staff of other departments and institutions. Key actions in
this sub-component are holding regular meetings between provincial and
district population staff with representatives of the participating
organizations, and training of these organizations' trainers.
V. POSSIBI:LITIES FOR COST RECOVERY
5.01      All contraceptives available through the Population Division are
sold, whether they are distributed in FWCs by paramedical workers or by
non-clinical personnel door-to-door; health outlets will also charge for
contraceptives when they begin offering family planning services. This
practice was established early in the program, although prices until
November 1980 were so insignificant that great wastage took place through
disposal of undistributed contraceptives and over-stated reports. In the



- 37 -
last quarter of 1980 prices were increased as follows: from Rs .25 to Rs 1
for a monthly cycle of pills and from .25 to Rs 4.00 for 1 dozen condoms.
This resulted in a dramatic decline in sales, although these prices were
still considerably lower than those in commercial outlets. The price
increase was, however, necessary in order to check abuses and begin testing
price responsiveness.  In March 1982 the Government reduced the price of
condoms from Rs 4 to Rs 1 per dozen, while the price for pills remained at
Rs 1 per cycle. The effects of this latest change are still not known.
5.02      Although contraceptives have so far been supplied free by donors,
eventually the Government would have to face the cost; therefore, the
practice of selling contraceptives should continue, both as a control for
abuse and wastage and as a legitimate means of partial cost recovery for
the program. It is estimated that if new acceptors and continuation rates
improve at a level of 10% per year, annual revenues would be Rs 2.8
million, or 11% of the annual cost of contraceptives. Although there is no
realistic.possibility of making the program self-sufficient, it is
reasonable to expect that these revenues will grow over time and
consequently such anticipated revenue is not trivial. Further testing with
price level deserves more attention. The GOP--with assistance from USAID,
which is providing almost all contraceptives for the program, including the
requirements for this project--continues to study this issue.
5.03      A related matter is cost recovery for other MCH services offered
by FWCs. The Population Division has recently established the practice of
registration charges amounting to Rs. 1 per patient, which entitles them to
the following services: (a) one week of treatment for prenatal, postnatal
and child care; and (b) four days of treatment for general curative cases.
Considering a minimum to regular patient load for 5,000 to 7,500
population, total revenue would represent 30 to 35% of total drug recovery
per center.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
6.01      This project has expected intermediate benefits represented by:
(a) a strengthened program structure; (b) an increase in FP/MCH outlets
from 251 now to about 800 by the end of the project period; (c) improved
quality of those services through job-oriented training, closer supervision
and integration of FP into MCH or vice-versa; and (d) enhanced
communication with the public concerning health and family planning
information. Expected ultimate benefits are: (a) more women breastfeeding
(through better MCH and IEC); (b) longer birth intervals resulting from
encouragement of breastfeeding and use of contraception; (c) decreases in
infant morbidity and mortality and healthier mothers, a consequence of
birth spacing and improved child care; and (d) closing of the gap between
awareness about contraceptive methods and actual use of contraception.
6.02      This project should contribute significantly to strengthening the
organizational structure of the population program in Pakistan and to
establishing a viable system that could handle incremental fertility
reduction activities as social and behavioral changes occur and
contraception becomes more generally acceptable. Problems of
organizational structure have been addressed satisfactorily by the recent
reorganization of the population program. Proposed remedies for overcoming



- 38 -
administrative weaknesses include: (a) a new system of management-by-
objectives including preparation of workplans for implementation, from
national to district levels; (b) improved in-service training by reviewing
and revising curricula and creating new courses relevant to job
requirements; and (c) management training of mid-level administrators. The
project also provides for two management audits of a sample of
administrative streams, to obtain information on the process of management
and to enable diagnosis and corrections. It is also expected that the
emphasis that this project places on operationally oriented evaluative
research should contribute to institutional strengthening. The project
supports several small surveys and studies to assess operations; findings
from these studies should provide a strong basis for designing future
interventions.
6.03      The project would support training of about 7,000 staff of the
population organization, 21,700 personnel of other government departments
and institutions and 31,250 commtnity volunteers and members of AMCs (a
total of about 60,000 functionaries and volunteers would be reached by
project supported training). In the formal school system, 16,000 teachers
would participate in 5-day workshops on population education and another
30,000 would be reached through correspondence courses. Several wide
audiences would be reached by group meetings, mass media and person-to-
person communication.
6.04      A gradual increase in the number of family planning outlets is
necessary to make services available to all those couples who are currently
married, aged 15-49 years, non-pregnant, fecund and not wanting any more
children or wanting to space births. This "unmet" demand for
contraceptives is estimated in Pakistan to be around 12% to 20% of married
women 15-49, or between 1.4 and 2.4 million. In project areas their number
is estimated between 344,000 and 575,000. Although tIle number of new
acceptors per outlet is expected to be low during the first two years of
the project (probably no higher than 5 per week per outlet) this level of
acceptance could lead to a four point drop in the CBR in four years--not an
insignificant accomplishment. Furthermore, easy availability of FP
services in the same locations where women seek other health services for
them and their families is an important predisposing factor for encouraging
contraceptive use. Also, ample choice of service providers and outlets
should improve continued use, after first acceptance. Improvements in
service quality should also be a contributing factor to stimulating
utilization for health care and increased FP acceptance.
6.05      There is ample evidence by now from the experience in many
countries that family planning services and IEC programs do make a
difference toward ultimate fertility decline. Although it is understood
that this decline is the result of a synergism among multiple factors, the
contribution of concerted efforts to increase service availability and
information/education about contraception is by no means negligible.
However, it would be highly specu;lative to translate intermediate benefits
of increased services and information into quantitative effects in impact
variables such as increase in percent breastfeeding, decrease in infant
morbidity and mortality, and decreases in the total fertility rate and the
birth rate. It is possible, however, to estimate that if the present mix
of contraceptive use were to be maintained and the current users of



- 39 -
contraception were to increase from 6 to 14%, the birth rate could drop as
much as 4 points in four years. If the contraceptive mix among acceptors
could be made more effective (e.g. if younger women increased contraceptive
continuation rates for spacing births, while relatively lower parity women
chose sterilizations) the effects in fertility could be increased, even
with similar overall acceptance rates.
6.06      The project costs per capita or per population served are within
a reasonable range in relation to the economic and social benefits of this
project (i.e., a slowing down of the rate of population growth). The IEC
component plus the population education program cost US$0.01 per capita per
year in operating costs. If capital costs are added, the annual cost per
capita would be around US$0.02. The cost of training population staff,
personnel of other departments and volunteers would cost approximately
US$57 per trainee. Operation of clinical and FP services in FWCs would
cost US$0.08 per capita per year, for the total population of the project
districts, or US$.25 per population served (20,000 persons per center).
The total operating cost of FWCs (including IEC and community activities)
would be US$.13 per capita or US$0.38 per person served. Overall, the
project would increase recurrent costs at current prices by 12% in 1987,
compared to expenditures budgeted in 1981.
6.07     The project costs per birth averted were roughly estimated for
illustrative purposes only. Credible benefit/cost calculations are not yet
possible in this sector primarily because of the difficulty of measuring
the economic benefits of slower population growth. However, as an
illustration, according to research referred to in a USAID report, the
present value of a birth averted in developing countries is at least twice
per capita income (in Pakistan it would be over US$600). It is suggested
that any program costing less than US$300 per birth averted will yield a
sizeable rate of return. The births averted from 1982/'83 to 1985/86 due to
new and increased activities under the GOP Population Plan (including this
project) are estimated to cost between US$100 to US$150 per birth averted.
6.08      A remaining question is: why was the particular set of
interventions for the national program and the project chosen as a
preferred alternative towards achieving increased FP services and
information? The design is a result of a selection of interventions based
upon the knowledge of what has or has not worked effectively in the past in
Pakistan and elsewhere; it represents the best current judgement of the
most cost-effective design which is feasible within a given political and
socio-cultural environment. An analysis was made of possible alternatives
or options for program organization and design that were open to the
Government in 1978, when it began to consider the restatement of efforts
toward fertility reduction. A summary of the possible interventions and
the estimated outcomes in terms of population coverage and lead time to
accomplish intermediate objectives are presented in Annex 6. Advantages of
the chosen alternative are: (a) a likely higher percentage of population
coverage with FP/MCH services (40%, compared to 17-27% under the other
alternatives) and a definitely wider coverage with IEC activities (50-60%
compared to 17-27%); and (b) a shorter lead time to make the population
program fully operational (4 years against 6-7 years under other
alternatives).



- 40 -
Risks
6.09      The project risks derive from persistance of past constraints,
mainly administrative weaknesses and opposition to the population program
from various fronts. Although the project addresses administrative
strengthening through training, a new management approach, and close
monitoring of the management process, it will take about half of the
project period to achieve results with these organizational development
efforts. The problem of opposition and sometimes open hostility towards
the program will be tackled by targeting services initially to those who
want them; by making the image of the program much more related to
objectives and actions perceived as real needs by the public (e.g., mother
and child health care, nutrition and the growing child, status of women,
breastfeeding); and by reaching leaders and influential persons and groups
to gain their support. Involvement of the private sector and the community
will be systematically pursued as an important measure to gain support for
the program.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were received from the Government
that:
(a) All teaching positions in the two PWTIs would be filled with
qualified staff by September 1, 1983 (para. 2.11);
(b) By September 1, 1983, an IEC training/planning consultant and an
IEC materials design and production consultant would be appointed
(paras. 2.12 and 2.17);
(c) Annual national and district training plans produced by the PWTIs
would be approved by the Population Welfare Division by May 1 of
each year, beginning May 1, 1983 (para. 2.12);
(d) No later than December 1, 1983, the services of a Director and a
Deputy Director for the IEC Unit in the National C&P Directorate
would be contracted, and IEC positions at the national,
provincial and district levels would be created and filled with
qualified staff (para. 2.17);
(e) An instructor for the Population Welfare Division's Directorate
Program Training and Education would be employed by September 1,
1983 (para. 2.19).
(f)  By January 1, 1984, an understanding between the Population
Welfare Division and the Ministry of Education (MOE) relating to
the overall plan for population education would be formalized,
and by July 1, 1984, a population education cell would be
established and maintained in the MOE with qualified and
experienced staff, including a population education specialist
(para. 2.19);
(g) The Population Welfare Division would submit to IDA, by July 1,
1984, for review and comment a report on staffing patterns and



- 41 -
needs of the FWCs in the project districts, and by December
1,1984 would implement recommendations arising from such report
(para. 2.25).;
(h) By December 1, 1983 the Population Welfare Division would
finalize and distribute throughout provincial and district
population offices a manual relating to functions, resources and
management of FWCs (para. 2.30);
(i) The provincial population directorates will prepare annual plans
of action for the operation of family planning outlets in health
facilities of other provincial government departments and public
sector institutions by July 1 of each year, beginning in 1983,
and obtain from the relevant departments and institutions
agreement to the plans (para. 2.32);
(j)  Qualified staff, in sufficient numbers and with experience in
procurement, logistics and management would be employed;
specifically, a Director and a Deputy Director of supplies and
Services in Islamabad, and a Deputy Director in Karachi (para.
3.10);
(k) Separate project accounts would be maintained at both the Federal
and provincial levels and would be audited separately and
annually; copies of unaudited accounts would be sent to IDA for
review not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year,
to be followed by fully audited accounts within 9 months after
the end of the fiscal year (para. 3.13);
(1) A Project Administration Cell (PAC) would be established and
maintained within the Population Welfare Division with qualified
staff in sufficient numbers to carry out/supervise implementation
of the project (para. 4.01).
An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be
effectiveness of the UK Grant Document (para. 3.03).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit to the Government of Pakistan of US$18 million equivalent.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATES OF CONTRACEPTIVE REQUIREMENTS
AND MIXES
I. Pakistan Population Program
1.   An essential part of the Pakistan Population Program is planning for
and ensuring the proper inventory and distribution of contraceptives among
the health outlets. The GOP has requested USAID to provide condoms, oral
contraceptives, and a mix of other contraceptives including foams, jellies
and diaphrams. UNFPA will provide all the injectables needed for the
program. Lippes loops and inserters are manufactured in Pakistan, and no
other IUDs are anticipated to be imported. As for immediate needs, the
current UNFPA-provided stock of condoms will cover the first two years of
the program. USAID has donated 2 million cycles of oral contraceptives in
mid 1982 to cover the estimated need for 1982, and UNFPA has agreed to
provide the program's needs in 1982 for "other" contraceptives.
2.   Projected contraceptive needs should ideally be based on past
contraceptive use, projected changes in method mix, and projected changes
in total numbers of users. Given the problems of overreporting past
contraceptive usage, only rough estimates of projected needs can be made.
Contraceptive needs will have to be reassessed and monitored throughout the
program.  At the end of 1982 USAID plans to determine the exact method mix
for 1983 based upon program experience in 1982.
rbble 1: ESD3AMD   RlIEM'l CR GOa1(EP V(   IN PRT
DISIRCCS FY83-6
CatraiepLivs       1982-83--     -1983-84 -      -1984-89-                          -Total-
Ehsicl  UTse   Physical  Lbm-s    Hysical Uirsa   PhsEa  Users   1hsia  Le
Qja=.  aW.    QEmnt.  Eq44.    QEnt.  ap.        Q331t .  9p.     QEnt.  9].P
Ora pills (cycles)  1/    -    2X,441   17,418  249,CB1  19,160  273,985  21,076  749,507  57,654
(13 cycles per uEer per year)
Rul*er cixdms ('00)  I/   _    213,716  213,7t6  223,770 223,770  258,587 258,587  695,073 6S,073
(100 ccnilr peer usr per year)
I) looPS        31,429  31,420  39,275   39,275   43,202  43,202   47,521  47,521  161,418 161,418
Injectables      8,999    2,250  19,637   4,910   21,539   5,400   23,757   5,940   73,992  18,500
(4 injectiors per year)
lmrs aplied                             275,319          291,532         333,124          933,645
1/ 1wtrtory eqected tD c=ver rneds



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
II. IDA Population Project, FY83-86
3.   The Government of Pakistan has estimated the physical quantity of
contraceptives needed for the family planning outlets in the nine project
districts from FY83-86 in Table 1. The contraceptive use mix implied by
this table is heavily weighted in favor of condoms. Method mix is expected
to change over the course of the project as training of health outlet
personnel improve and as the outlets offer better quality services for
prescribing methods and treating side effects. Use of the more effective
methods--sterilization, hormonal methods, and possibly the IUD--should
increase relative to condoms. Based upon experience in other countries,
USAID has projected the following change in method mix in Pakistan.
Table 2: PROJECTED CONTRACEPTIVES USED BY CURRENT USERS
Method                      1982                  1987
IUD                         16%                   12%
Oral contraceptives         15%                   31%
Condoms                     60%                   36%
Sterilization                5%                   10%
Injections                   2%                    9%
Other                        2%                    2%
The contraceptives requested for the project districts will be reassessed
throughout the project to allow for changing method mix.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
PAXISTAM: POPULAIION PROJECT
Table 1:  ESrIIMUTD PRDJECT COSTS BY CMPOP ENT
MD YEAR, FY83-86
(Rs '000)
82/83       83/84         84/85        85/86         (Rs)         (US$ '000)
A. National Scope
Training PWTTs                      4,226.0      15,239.7      8,174.9       5,418.5    33,059.1        2,592.9
IFEC Prog. Operations               2,310.1      22,842.1    18,728.9        9,968.7    53,867.8        4,224.9
IEC Personnel                         110.6       4,230.9      4,230.9       4,230.9    12,803.3        1,004.2
Population Education                1,706.5       5,513.6      4,205.2       4,241.4    15,666.7         1,228.8
Project Admin. Cell                   712.0       5,154.0        754.0         754.0     7,374.0           578.4
Subsequent Project Prep.                  -       7,113.8      2,666.6       1,889.8    11,670.2          915.3
Project Evaluation                         -      1,747.0        50B.1       1,147.2      3,402.3          266.8
Project Preparation Facility        3,480.0             -            -             -      3,480.0          272.9
Inmovative Activities                     -       1,109.9      2,662.9       4,992.4     8,765.2          687.5
Sub-total National Scope           12,545.2      62,,951.0    41,931.5      32,660.9   150,088.6       11,771.7
3   Geographic Areas
Family Welfare Centers             18,658.9      29,334.9      29,240.9    29,240.9   106,475.7         8,351.0
Target Group Institutiors              41.5          81.5          41.5         81.5        246.0           19.3
Pop. Program in Other Depts               -       1,441.3       1,401.5      1,441.4     4,284.3           336.0
Contrac. Requir. and Dist.            374.9      11,946.8      14,421.5    17,283.9    44,027.0         3,453.1
Sub-total Geographic Areas         19,075.3      42,804.5      45,105.5    48,047.7   155,033.0        12,159.5
Total BASELIIE COSTS               31,620.4    105,755.5       87,037.0    80,708.7   305,121.6        23,931.1
Physical Contingencies                142.2       1,060.5         621.8        179.7      2,004.2          157.2
Price Contingencies                 2,531.5      14,588.4      18,502.1    23,278.0    58,900.0         4,140.0
Total PRDJECT CODSTS               34,294.1    121,404.4    106,160.9   104,166.4   366,025.8          28,228.3
Taxes                               1,466.1       6,742.0       4,247.6      2,045.0    14,500.8         1,137.3
Foreign Exchange                    5,629.6      36,030.4      32,014.7    26,327.2   100,002.0         7,700.9



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
T[E 2: ESEDI) PRIlEI G(    BY Ei)iFlJR CA'RY      YEAR, FY83-86
(Rs '000)
Foreigi
B (9 osts                             ___rw
82/83     83/84     84/85      85/86      btal        %   Axxnt
I. Imstnn  ots
A. E4iprert                        1,752.7   5,068.5     983.8      523.8   8,328.7    56.1  4,670.0
B. ETabk FqApmert, rairdng            -        340.0     127.5      127.5     595.0    70.0   416.5
C. Vehicf                             -      9,140.0   8,370.0        -     17,510.0    80.0 14,008.0
D. CtBultat Servic                  247.0   2,477.7    1,943.7    1,847.4   6,515.9    29.4  1,914.0
E. Slary, Trairirg                1,019.2    1,0192    1,019.2    1,019.2   4,076.8      0.0      0.0
F. Per Diem, TmirIng              2,489.7   10,312.9   4,174.3    4,092.0  23,669.5      0.0     0.0
G. Ittral Thvel, Tiinixg           395.9   1,614.5    1,165.0    1,1672    4.342.2      0.0      0.0
H. Vdicle q,nt1on,  aming             -        108.9     108.9     18.9      325.6    50.0   163.3
I. Rnt Wlement, Tainirg             182.0     242.0      242.0      242.0      9(8.0     0.0     0.0
J. Other (4ratng,  ahning/l         770.9   2,574.7    1,206.0    1,206.0   5,812.0      1.8   103.1
K. sel Mry                          386.0     586.0      586.0      586.0   2,144.0      0.0      0.0
L. Projet AIxAsataon  & PearLtion  712.0   12,267.8   3,420.6    2,643.8   19,044.2    42.1  8,C20.4
K arve3al ad    tim                  -      1,747.0     5Q8.1     1,1472    3,402.3    36.1  1,229.1
N. Ptojert lrWration Fad;lity     3,480.0      -          -          -       3,480.0    73.3  2,551.6
0. Tivative ActivitLes               -       1,109.9   2,662.9    4,992.4   8,765.2    25.2  2,213.0



- 46 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
Total ITitnEs t (Ists                  11,435.4   48,608.7   29,090.9    19,785.5     108,920.6  32.4 35,289.1
P'sical 0xtIxrx                        124.2     989.9       517.0        74.6       1,705.7  71.1  1,212.7
Price 0tinxnie                         88).9    7,406.2    7,413.5     7,480.9      23,181.5  31.6  7,325.4
Total lirclulfng Oxtinries             12,440.5   57,004.8   37,021.4    27,341.1     133,897.8  32.8 43,827.2
Tames                                  646.6    5,190.7    2,581.8       267.6       8,686.7   0.0      0.0
Threiga ExdwW                        3,906.1   20,753.8   13,439.9     4,582.6      42,682.3   0.0      0.0
II. Pecurret CIsts
A. Salaries                         11,851.6   2D,859.8   21,531.8    21,531.8      75,774.9   0.0      0.0
B. Per DLm                             378.6    2,078.8    2,440.0     2,360.0       7,257.4   0.0      0.0
C. Internal TrveL                     576.5    1,137.4    1,137.4      1,137.4       3,988.7   0.0      0.0
D. Vdcle (Oeradon                      -         816.6.   1,660.4     1,660.4       4,157.4  50.0  2,068.7
E. Gtaotivves                          374.9   11,946.8   14,421.5    17,283.9      44,027.0  99.7 43,907.2
F. Pert                              2,506.2    3,646.2    3,646.2     3,646.2      13,444.8   0.0      0.0
G. Mqeniable EqI;       & Materilsq   470.6    6,836.4    4,954.0     4,954.0      17,215.0   0.0      0.0
H. TV and Padio                        318.4    3,106.6    1,885.0     2,073.0       7,413.0   0.0      0.0
I. miecind                           2,624.8    4,542.2    4,542.2     4,542.1      16,251.2  50.0  8,125.6
J. Oter/2                           1,053.5    2,176.1    1,727.6     1,734.4       6,691.6   1.8    123.0
Ttal P1u7ert Oosts                    204185.0   57,146.8   57,946.1    60,923.2      1%,201.1  27.6 54,224.5
I1sical Catirgnzes                      18.0       70.6      104.8       105.1         298.5  36.7    109.6
Price (Crtin4                        1,650.6    7,182.2   11,0B8.6    15,797.1      35,718.5   9.9  3,536.1
Thtal Inlufing (tingmie                21,853.6  '64,399.6   69,139.5    76,825.4     232,218.1  25.3 57,870.2
TaE                                    819.5    1,551.3    1,665.8     1,777.4       5,814.0   0.0      0.0
Ftreigti lES                         1,723.5   15,276.6   18,574.9    21,744.6      57,319.6   0.0      0.0
Total Baseline Cbts                    31,623.4  105,755.5   87,037.0    80,708.7     305,121.6  29.3  89,513.6
Wysal- Oxtinnies                       142.2    1,060.5      621.8       179.7       2,004.2  66.0   1,322.3
Priae C0xtlirme                      2,531.5   14,588.4   18,502.1    23,278.0      58,9)0.0  19.8  11,651.3
Tota Project Clsts                     34,294.1  121,404.4  106,160.9   104,166.4     366,025.8  28.0  102,4B7.2
TaES                                 1,466.1    6,742.0    4,247.6     2,045.0      14,500.8   0.0       0.0
Fbreigi oEc1s                        5,629.6   36,030.4   32,014.7    26,327.2     100,0(2.0   0.0       0.0
/1  Irlu*s local exaWfes for training woftloiS, equpiHt aItewm
arl mis1l- as  qers for tidxg.
/2  nrnltu3  electricity, tele*xe, statorery, equM2nxt mntenwre ad
otler miscellan3     opentirg e xqer=.



TABLE 3: FSP21TF!3 PFnXFCP T COEt tY EP14MJ3RE CATIMRY ANO aN3UTs, P93866
(Rs 'n(9)
Nati-la,   Scopre                               _     _            _                          Dgaphic Areas ers                              ,sncal
Prpulation   lattraceptle-
Prject          Subsequent                                         Fai1v    Target          Program in   Ne-qioe-eots
Training   7EC Program      EC        Pop1latiano   Adninistraticn  Project       Project                 Itreoative   Ve]lfare   Gmrop        (rther        arti Diotr-
PhlIs     Opt           perata  Fersornel   Educatie    Crln      Preparatite Evaiuas           PPF     Activities   Center-  lesttitotlons  Departrents _btion                Total     %  Aont
I. Investrent Costs
A. Egoipaet                              2,261.0     3,259.0        -            766.5                  -                           -           -                586.0        -           1,456.3         -            8,328.7   5.0    416.4
B. Esperdable Equipn-st, Trtolog          595.0                                                -                   -                                             -           -                                          595.0   5.0      29.8
C. Vehicles                              1,040.0    16,470.0         -            -              -              -             -           -           -           -           -             -             -           17,510.0   5.0   875.5
D. Coesultant Servlres                   1,372.5     1,201.5        780.0      3,061.9           -             -                          -          -            50.0      5s.0             56.0         -            6,515.9   0.0       0.0
e. Salary, Training                      4,076.8       -            -             -                                                                               -           -             -             -            4,076.8   0.0       0.0
F. Fer Diem, T'15alotg                  19,237.9       181.1        -          3,010.5                                 -                  -                       -         140.0         1, 10.0         -           23,669.5   0.0       0.0
C. Internal Travel, Training             2,027.0        16.0        -          2,237.2           -                           -                       -            -          56.0             6.0         -            4,342.2   0.0       0.0
H. Vehicle rperatios, TrainSng             326.6       -            -             -                                                                                                                       -              326.6   5.0      16.3
L. Rent STplermnt, Training               903.0        -            -             -                            -                          -          -            -           -             -            -               908.0   0.0       0.0
J. Other Operating, Training             1,214.2       -            -          4,597.8           -             -              -           -                       -                  -                                 5,812.0   0.2      10.3
K. Seed Mey                                -           -            -             -              -             -              -           -          -         2,144.0        -             _                          2,144.00.0          0.0
L. project Adrinistratiam  & Preparaotis   -           -            -             -           7,374.0       11,670.2          -                                     -  -      -              -            -           19,044.2   1.9   357.4
M, &,reeys sod Ecaloation                 -           -             -            -                             -          7,735.6        -           -           -           -              -            _            3,402.3  0).0       0.0
N. Pmject Preparation Facility             -           -            -             -                             -             -        3,480.(0       -           -           -              _                         3,4841.0   0.0      0.0
0. Ineovative Activities                   -           -             -            -              -             -              -           -        8,765.2        -                                                    8 _  _  9,765.2   0.0  0.0
Total levestrent Costs                     33,059.1    21,127.6      780.0       13,673.9        7,374.0       11,670.2       3,402.3     3,490.0      8,765.2    2,730.0       246.0        2,612.3         -          104,920.6   1.6  1,705.7
Physical Coetiegeroies                     221.4       986.5        -             38.3          356.0            1.4          -           -          -            29.3        -              72.8         -            1,705.7   0.0       0.0
Price Contlngercies                      6,667.5     4,510.9      203.4        3,105.4        1,435.4       2,467.9          818.7        -        2,656.5       570.6        53.0         708.2          -           23,181.5   1.S    336.1
Total Incialdng 'c-tingencies              39,948.0    26,625.0       983.4      16,817.6        9,155.4       14,139.5       4,221.0     3,480.0    11,415.6    3,329.9        299.0        3,393.3         -           133,8il7.8   1.0  2,041.8
Taes                                     1,287.2     5,242.5        -            257.8        1,055.6          -              _           72.0        -          210.1        -             561.5         -            8,686.7   4.7    410.2
Foreign Exchange                         5,053.4    18,804.6        -            601.4        5,904.9        3,837.5       1,468.6     2,551.6      2,798.6      351.5        -           1,310.3         -           42,682.3   3.3  1,418.4
II. Rerrnt Costs
A. Salsries                                 -           -        8,412.0         861.6           -             -              -           -           -       66.481,3               -                    -           75,774.9   0.0       0.0
B. Per Die.                                 -        2,334.8     2,342.2         179.2           -             -              -           -           -        2,401.2        -              -            -            7,257.4   0.0       0.0
C. Isternal Travel                          -           -         1,269.1        790.0           -              -             -           -           -        1,929.6                       -            -            3,988.7   n.1       0.0
D. Vehicle rperation                        -        4,137.4        --                                         -                                            -                                      -                   4,137.4   5.0    a6.9
E. Cmtraceptiovs                            -           -           -              _             -             _              -           _           _           -                         _          44,027.0       44,027.0   0.0       0.0
F. Rent                                     -           -           -              -             -                                        -          -        13,444.8        -                           _           13,444.8   0.0       0.n
C. is1r-dable F.qap-ent & Materials         -       17,215.0         -             -              -                           -           -           -           -                                       -            17,215.0   0.0      3.0
H. TV ard Radio                             -        7,413.0        -                     -             -                     -           -           -           -           -              -            -            7,413.0   0.0       0.0
T. Mldiclves                                -           -           -              -                           -              -           -          -        14,579.2        -           1,672.0         -           16,251.2  (1.0       0.0
J. Other                                             1,640.0        -            142.0           _                                        -                    4,909.6        -              -            -            6,691.6   1.4      91.6
Total hecorrent Costs                          -       32,740.2    12,023.3       1,992.8           -              -             -           -           -      103,745.7        -           1,672.0      44,327.0       196,201.0   0.2    298.5
Physical Contigencies                       -          216.9        -              2.3           -              -             -           -                       79.3        -              -            -              298.5   0.0       0.0
Price Gootiogtrries                         -        7,958.2     3,036.1         428.6           -              -             -                       -       20,859.8        -             429.6       1,(07.2       35,718.5   0.2    714.4
Total locladieg Coetingencies                  -       40,915.3    15,059.4       2,423.7           -              -             -                              176,684.8        -           2,104.6      45,034.2       232,218.0   0.2  1,012.9
Tarta-                                                  -            -             -             -              -             -                                5,9 201. 2      -            612.8         -             5,814.0   0.0      0.0
Fomrigp Exihange                            -        2,824.5        -             29.0           -             -              -           -          -         9,681.6        -           1,0)23.3     44,761.2       57,319.6   0.2    135.9
Total Baseline rosts                       33,059.1    53,867.8    12,803.3      15,666.7        7,374.0       11,670.2       3,402.3     3,480.0      8,765.2  106,475.7       246.0        4,284.3      44,327.0       305,121.6   0.7  2,034.2
Physical Costiagencies                     221.4     1,201.4        -             40.6          356.0            1.4          -           -           -          108.6        -              72.8         -            2,(X14.2  0.0       O.
Price Gontingencies                      6,667.5    12,469.1     3,239.5       3,534.0        1,425.4       2,467.9          818.7        -         2,651.5   23,430.4        53.0        1,136.8       1,1X)7.2      58,90.0   0.7  4,132.0
Total Pmject Costs                         39,948.0    67,540.3    16,042.8      19,241.3        9,155.4       14,139.5       4,221.0     3,480.0    11,415.7  130,014.7         299.0       5,493.9      45,034.2       366,025.8   0.7  6,127.2
Teams                                    1,287.2     5,242.5        -            257.8        1,155.6           -             -           72.0        -        5,411.3        -           1,174.4         -            14,583.R   2.8    410.2
Foreign I&hange                          5,053.4    21,629.2        -            630.4        5,904.9        3,837.5       1,468.6     2,551.6      2,798.6    9,033.1        -           2,333.6      44,761.2       100,002.0   1.6  1,554.2          n



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
CONSULTANT SERVICES, CONTRACTS AND STUDIES
A. Man-months of Consultant Services by Subject, Source of Recruitment, and
Timing, FY83-86
Project Component and                                 Man-months
Subject of Consultancy        Recruitment   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  Total
National Component
I. Program Training
a. Training Design/
Manual Preparation      International                   1.5    1.5   3
b. Long term training/
IEC Consultant/l        International           6       3             9
II. IEC
a. Detailing Mass Media
Campaign and Strategy  National          4      4       4       4    16
b. Preparation and
Delivery of Training
for IEC Staff           National         5      5       5       5    20
c. Long-term IEC materials
design & production
specialist              International          12                    12
III. Population Education
in Schools
a. Development and Adap-
tation of Classes I-X,
Curricula Materials,
Teacher's Guides, A/V
Aids and Orientation
Materials. 146 Writers,
Reviewers and Experts
Will Participate in
Workshops of 2-12 Days
to Create These
Materials, and Will                      7.8   39.7
Receive Honoraria from                  (203   (1032
Rs 500 to Rs 2000       National        days)  days)                 47.5
/1 This training/IEC consultant will split his/her time 60/40% between          IEC
and training.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  Total
b. Training Teachers
Workshops: Honoraria                             19.2   21.1   21.1
for Lectures at                                  (500   (550   (550
Workshops                 National               days)  days)  days)  61.4
c. Evaluation
i.   Evaluate Corre-
spondence Course    National                2              2       4
ii.  Evaluate Teacher
Training             National               2              2       4
iii. Evaluate Teach-
ing in Formal
School System.       National               2              2       4
Subtotal, National Component   National         16.8   75.9   32.1   38.1  162.9
International         18      4.5    1.5   24
Support Activities
I. Preparation of Subsequent
Project
Engineering, other designs  National                12      12      6     30
Program development           International                 6              6
II. Evaluation
a. Management Audit          National                6       3      6      15
International          2              1      3
b. Task Analysis              International          1                      1
c. Cost Effectiveness
Study                     National                1      1              2
International          1       1             2
d. "Marketing" Study          International          1              1      2
Subtotal, Support Activities   National                19      16     12      47
International          5       7      2     14



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  Total
PPF Advance
I. FWCs Functional Analysis    International  2                               2
FWCs - Consultant to Study
Use of NGOs           National        2                            2
II. Training
- Master Trainers Course    International  6                               6
- PWTI Course Design         International  1                              1
- PWTI Course Design         National        6                             6
- Manual Design and          International  2                              2
Evaluation
III. IEC
- IEC Work Plan              International  1                              1
- IEC Design                 International  1                              1
- Communication
Consultants                National       23                            23
- 2 Consultants in Use
of Video Films             International  1                              1
Subtotal, PPF Advance           National       31                            31
International 14                            14
Grand Total (National Com-
ponent, Regional Component,
Support Activities and PPF      National       47.8   94.9   48.1   50.1  240.9
Advance)                         International 14      23     11.5    3.5   52
B. Other Contracts and Studies by Subject and Timing, FY 83-86
Project Component and
Subject of Consultancy                         FY83   FY 84  FY85   FY86
National Component
I. Training                                    x        x     x      x
Support Trainers for PWTIs
II. IEC - Contract to hire
Director and Deputy
Director for IEC                            x       x      x      x
III. Population Education,
Correspondence Training
Course, Open University                     x       x      x      x



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
Regional Component                              FY83    FY84   FY85   FY86
I. FWCs
Contracts for Retainership                  x        x      x       x
for Private Doctors
II. Local Contract to train
12 Trainers, 6 for TGIs,
6 for the Population Pro-
gram in other Departments                            x              x
Support Activities
I. Preparation of Subsequent
Project, Professional Fees
for Site Selection, Pre-
liminary Designs, and
Pre-qualification of Con-
tractors for Construction                   x        x
II. Project Evaluation
a. Mid-censal Demographic
Survey                                                          x
b. Task Analysis                            x        x     x       x
c. Marketing Study                                   x             x
d. Block Allocation Research
Grant                                             x     x       x
PPF Advance
Contract for Prototype
Drawings for IEC                           x



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page1 -of 4
PAKELSAN POPULATION PKJlEiT
PIEMEN=ON SC(UJES FOR FACH PR=JFJ SLM-O.
Pre-project              1982/83                         1983/84                         1984/85                          1985/86
Key Activities      July 1981 -
Jime 1982    _          2       3       4       1       2       3       4       1       2       3       4        1       2       3       4
ProJect Administration
- Designation of Joint August 1981
Secretary (Plannirg)
as Coordinator
- Designate Accounts
Officer and Accoumt-
ant
Copy of unaidited
project accon=ts to
be sent to IIA
Appointment of ergi-
neerirg advisor for
preparation of con-
struction program
National Coexonent
1. Progra TYaining
- Fbnctional analysis Nov-Dec 1981
of NFIs
- Preparation of Train- Nov-Feb 1982
irg Workslnp for
master trainers
- Master trainers       Mar-Apr 1982
w.orkshop
- Preparations for dis- May-Jun 1982
trict staff trainirg
- Mamnals, curricula
developmert: consul-
tant recruitmnt and
lmrk group activities
- Trainirn  of trainers
- pJfl staff recruit-
ment/reassignient
Selection ard rental
of Pl'l  facilities
(4 provinces)
Preparation of annual
training plans by
Refresher %DrkshDps
for master trainers
Training of trainers
of other participat-
irg institutions and
departmnts
2. IEC
- Appeintment of IEC
Director, Deputy
- Partial designation
of IEC provincial,
district staff anrg
existirg staff
- A4ointment of re-
maining (new) IEC
s taff



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
PAKISTAN POPUIATION FRO=T
DThiPENrAIN SCQEEU1ES F(R EACd PRO=  S          tUB-CUIPNENT
Pre-project              1982/83                         1983/84                          1984/85                         1985/86
Key Activities      July 1981 -
June 1982       1       2       3       4       1       2       3       4        1      2        3       4       1       2       3       4
-Produce/test IEC
mterials for target
group institutions
-Develop arnjal cos-
munication master
plans
-Conduct mass media
workshops
-Develop and distrib-
ute test 'butivation
kits
-Develop mass media
production schedules
-Quarterly review of
impleTmntation status
of IEC master plan
- IT-service trainirg
of district officers
-Provincial rk plan-
ning meetirigs
-Train 50 participants
(mostly trainers) in
FC AV equipment
-Federal IEC staff to                         _____
meet quarterly with
provincial staff
-Operate AV van pro                          -_____
grams from district
on a quasrterly
schedule              
3. Population Education|
-Establish Pop. Fduc.
Cell: (a) in Pop.
Div. (b) in MDF
-Develop telctbook cont-ll
tent (Classes I&III)
-Develop cirricula
contert(Classes IV-X)|
- tavelopment and dis-|
tribution of teadiers
guides
-Produrtion of kits,
distribution
Corresponience
cornses for teachers,
A. Open Uiiversity
-Teacher training                                                             _____
workshops
-Evaluation of Popula-
tion Education
Regsional Capnt
1. WIE
- Fnctionsl Analysis   No-Dec 1981
- aistribution to all
FWCs                                                                                                                                                       _ _



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
PAKISrAN POPDIATIGN PRT
C        NrATION SCHMUIEE:R EARA  PJCT S      1 T-KNr
Pre-project             1982/83                        1983/84                        1984/85                         1985/86
Key Activities     July 1981 -  _                      .               I_        _       _                      _       _ -
June 1982      _       2       3       4      1       2       3       4       1      2       3       4       1       2      3       4
- Fonmation of AMCs    May 1982
(begim.rig ard car-
pletion)
-7(F of all project
F1a to be located in
adequate rented
farAlities
-Fillirg of most FWC
vacant positiors
-FWs operatirg under
new schem
-FCs to reach mini-
=m utilization rates
(Y5  of capacity)
- Optima utilization
rates (70-8Of of
capacity) and seetirg
good service quslity
criteria
-Presentation to ItD_
of report on adequs-
cy of FW staffirg
patterng
-Evaluation of Region-
al Casnonent
. Annual task analy-
ses of FWCs (with
observers)
. Amnal cost-effect-
iveness stadies
. Mangeent Audits
. Pablic Acceptabi-
lity Surveys
Mid-Cenal Dtr-
graphic Survey
(begirimrig of
preparatiors)
. MiCal D
graphic Survey
Conducted
2. FI Service Outlets of
Other Departmts
-Trainiig of health   Jan 1982        ____
staff in FP (begirn-
nirg)
-Trainirg of 6 train-
ers in FP.
-Preparation and pro-
vision of IS:
materials (first
batch)
- Agree on asamal FP
plans witb respective
departments
-Offer FP in 2-7 of
project area outlets



- 55-
ANNEX 4
Ta4of 4
PAKISIAN PopUIAhTON PRDJECr
IMEION S(3EDUMlES FOR FACH PROJF= S1B-CME
Pre-project              1982/83                         1983/84                         1984/85                          1985/86
Key Acttvities      July 1981      ----                                                __ _  _ _ _                                       _____
Jne 1982        112             3       4       1       2       3       4       1       2       3        4       1       2       3       4
- Offer FP in 8T. of
project area outlets
3. FP Service Outlets
of 'target Group
Institutions
- Trainirg of health   Jan 1982      ____
staff in FP
- Trainirg of 6 train,-
ers in FP
- Preparation ani pro-
vision of TEC
materials to target
group institutions
- Agree on annual FPL
plans with institu-
itions
- Offer FP in 3-7 of
project area outlets
- Offer FP in 91K of
project area outlets



-56-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
INDICATORS FOR EVALUATION
IEC Sub-Component
1.        In the first stage of the project, 1982-84, the following will be
indicators of the process of building an organization capable of
implementing a national IEC program:
(a) At the national level, the Director will develop the first
masterplan and distribute it to all Deputies by July 1, 1983;
(b) By the end of 1983, all district officers will have received
basic training at PWTIs;
(c) By the end of last quarter of 1983, and quarterly thereafter,
plan progress, as documented by national and provincial research
officers, will be reviewed first by deputies at the provincial
level, then at the national level by the Director;
(d) By July 1983, all target group institutions will be provided
educational materials covering their contraceptive services;
(e) By the end of July 1983, at least 35% of FWCs will have a full
complement of printed materials; by the third quarter of 1983,
25% will have pre-tested slide-tape equipment and programs;
(f) By July of 1983, district deputies will attend at least 75% of
monthly AMC meetings; and
(g) By the first quarter of 1984, district deputies will provide
first follow-up team training courses at FWC level.
2.        In FWC service areas, especially in Bank project districts, the
evaluation indicators will be:
(a) Numbers and types of community volunteers participating in field
motivation;
(b) Increased attendance at FWCs;
(c) Meetings held by field functionaries with groups in communities;
(d) Participation in FWC-sponsored development activities (e.g. adult
literacy classes, vocational training, etc.);
(e) Increased adoption of recommended maternal/child health
behaviors;
(f) Some increase in adoption and maintenance of contraception.



57
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
3.        While these indicators will give evidence of IEC
institution-building process and the communities' responsiveness to a new
program approach, the evaluative criteria for the second stage of the
project (1984-1986) will be more focused on family planning acceptance.
The indicators will include:
(a) Active public and private promotion of family planning by an
increased number of local leaders;
(b) Involvement of increased numbers of frontline "nation-building"
fieldworkers in FWC and family planning promotion; and
(c) Significant increases in contraceptive use as specified in the
Population Plan.
FWC Sub-Component
4.        Indication of good progress in the implementation of the FWC
component would include: (a) by mid-1983, 70% of the FWCs in project
districts should be located in adequate and renovated facilities and
vacancies should be less than 20%; and (b) by end-1983 all FWCs in project
areas should be operating under the new scheme. Indicators of quality and
public acceptability of services and quality of MCH/FP care would be:
(a) Utilization rates would climb to a minimum expected performance
in relation to staff time available, of average weekly
attendances as follows: 16 antenatal cases, 60 sick child care
under 5 years, 4 general patients, 9 family planning new
acceptors and dispensing of condoms, pills and other
contraceptives to 20 clients (i.e. an average of 14 daily FP/MCH
care and 3 to 4 visits to pick up contraceptives)/l;
(b) FWCs would implement regularly a system of referrals of mothers
and children to health facilities and would receive instructions
from those health facilities on how to follow-up treated cases;
(c) Antenatal cases should be seen at least three times before
delivery and mothers should come back for a post-natal check up
six weeks after delivery at which time the FWA or FWW would give
them advice on birth spacing or sterilization;
(d) A maternal card should be prepared by FWAs for each antenatal
case, with the obstetric history of the patient, indications of
relative risks, and notes on family planning advice given;
(e) Records of family planning clients should indicate home follow up
visits by FWAs for those clients that failed to re-attend for
further supplies;
(f) Family planning acceptors would be expected to increase by 10%
per year, and users would accumulate steadily by 2-4% per year;
and
(g) All children under 1 year should be weighed and growth charts
filled by FWAs, and all children between 1 and 5 years would have
the mid-arm circumference measured and results registered in the
clinic card.



PAhlSTAN POPJ1ATION PRDJJECI'
IEC COMONENT: TARGET AUDIENKES, MESSAGES AND CHANNELS
Target Audiences                                      Principal Messages                                   Channils
I.  Field Level                           1. General:
A. General Public                       a. New concept, objectives, and types of                 Provincial and national print, tele-
services of FWs                                       vision, radio, print, multi-sectoral
workers, FhC staff, local orgniza-
b. Locations of FWCs                                     tions
c. OppDrtunities to volunteer
2. Six Population Themes
a. lactation, breast feedirg                             Television, radio, print, multi-
sectoral wDrrkers
b. Nutrition of growig child
c. late marriage
oo
d. Responsibility of father
e. Mateo-nal, child health
f. Status of xnm-n
B. Prenant and Lac-                   3. a. Advantages of small fanlly                            Radio, television, FWC staff/
tating Women                                                                                   volunteers
b. Ante-natal check-ups
c. Breast-feedirg
d. ResponsibiUty of father                                                                        (IQ
e. Contraceptive use; importance and methlxods 
0
f. Birth spacirg to ensure healthy toddlers                                                        -4
and mothers
g. Desirable maternal, child health care practices
h. Sanitation, health eduration



PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
IEC COMPONENT: TARCET AUDIENCES, MESSAGES AND CHANNELS
Target Audiences                                       Principal Messages                                     Channels
C. Satisfied Acceptors                4. Encouragerment to volunteer for motivation work            FWC staff/volunteers, district
officers
D. Women with 3 or fewr               5. Birth spacirg, desirable MCH care practices
children
a. Contraceptive use/methods/health reasors                FWC staff, volunteers
b. Desirable MCH care practices
c. Responsibility of father
E. Contraceptive Drop-outs            6. FP methods, side-effects, spacirg                           FW  staff/volunteers
F. Fertile Couples                    7. FP methods, spacirg, desirable  1HE care practices          F1.C staff/volunteers
G. Local Leaders, Innovators          8. a. Population problems, welfare plan                        AMCs, district officers, FW  staff,
printed materials
b. Need for support, endorsement, voluntary effort
c. Small family advanteges
H. Religious Leaders                  9. a. Family plannirg and Islam                                AMCs/volunteers, district officers
b. Need for support
c. Advantages of small family
I. Frontline workers of              10. a. Multi-sectoral plan and implications                     Printed materials, district
nation-building deparutnnts                                                                       officers, FWC staff, workshops
b. Referrals and endorsements for FWs
-4j



PAKISTAN POPlICON PROJECT
IEC OtaMPNT: TARGET AUDIE=ES, MESSAGES AND CHANELS
Target Audiences                                     Principal Messages                                  Charmels
J. Teachers                         11. a. Population problems and welfare plan                   Printed nsterials, population
education (fonial), FWC staff/
b. Need for assistance with referrals, erdorsements      district cfficers
c. Participation in motiwtion
K. Hisbands                         12. a. Responsibility of father                               FW staff /volmteers
b. Fami1-y planning netlods
L. Organized Groups
(e.g. mDthers clubs,             13. a. 6 thenes                                              MCi staff and motivation kits
b. fanily planning, spacirg
C)
c. Social development: vocational trainirg, kitchen
gardening
M. Hakimn  and Dais                 14. a. Contraception, spacing, desirable MCH care practices  EWC staff, distriet officers
b. Nutrition
N. Youth                            15. a. Population problems                                    FWC staff, district afficers,
teachers
b. late marriage
II. District Level
A. District officers of             16. Cooperation with Population Welfare Plan                  Printed materials, district
nation-building departments                                                                    Canmnication Officers                   m m
0



PAISAN POPULATION PROJECr
IEGC OCtNETl: TARGET AUDMECES, MESSAGES AND CHAS
Target Audiences                                    Principal Messages                                 Channels
B. Health Department Outlets       17. a. Provide education and service in family plannirg      District and provincial cfficers,
printed materials, radio
b. Distribute educational materials
c. Refer to FWs, accept referrals frnm EWCs
III. Provincial Level
A. Target Group Institutiors      18. a. Pronote services through respective health outlets     Provincial officers, printed
materials
b. Provide educational materials
c. Schedule trainirg of clinicians
B. Media Outlets                  19. a. Integrate small family norm concept                    Provincial officers, national IEC
in articles, documentaries anl                        arnl PPIC (meetirgs and malirgs),
entertainment                                          films, videotapes
b. Report on Population Welfare activities
C. Provincial Goverrnment         20. a. Cooperate idth Population Welfare Plan                 Provincial officers, DG, printed
Officials, other provincial                                                                  materials, videotapes, films
leaders                            b. Direct staff to assist in motivation, legitimization
D. NGOs                           21. a. Support FWCs, Population Welfare Plan                  Provincial and district officers,
printed materials
b. Provide education and service in family planing
0';
X z
0q 



PAKISTAN POPU0AIION PRoJECr
IEC CCMEONENT: TAR(ET AUDITNCES, MESSAGES AND CHANNELS
Target Audiences                                      Principal Messages                                    Channels
IV. National Level
A. Senior Governnent officials,      22. a. Population growth problems; relation with              Mass media, direct mail, neetings,
political leaders                        achievement of other socio-economic goals              direct contacts between population
and other Governnent staff on
b. SuppDrt Population Welfare Plan                        specific components
c. Cooperate through specific population camponents
of respective Government division
B. Religious leaders and             23. a. Population growth problem                              Direct nmil, meetings
ATrYfLn  flf ,Enl:w
b. Birth spacing and Islam
C. Mass Media Outlets                24. a. Population and development                             Sendnars, meetings, PPIC naterials,
film, videotapes, articles
b. Population Welfare Plan and activities
c. Need for positive promotion
x
-4
0
X 4



ANNEX 6
- 63-
PAKISTAN - POPULATION PROJECT
AN ANALYSIS OF FOSSIBLE PROGRM APPRGACGES AND INTEUDENYIOtB
Variables                Alternative 1 (dhosen)       Alternative 2                Alternative 3
1. Organization, responsi-
bility for:
(a) Coordination           Population Division/        Population Division!     Ministry of Health/Pro-
Provincial Goverrments      Provincial Govenrnents  vincial Health
Departments
(b) FP Service Delivery   Multisectoral: Population  Multisectoral: Health   Health Departments
Division, Health Depart-    Departments, Others
ments, Others
(c) Leadership for ser-   Population Division          Ministry of Health       Ministry of Health
vice delivery,
demonstration, new
tedhnolqgy
(d) IEC activities,        Population Division         Population Division       Ministry of Health
decisions oi        |
strategy, prcgran,  I
mass media
implementation         Mhltisectoral               Multisectoral             Ministry of Health
(e) Support Activities     Population Division, with   Ministry of Health/      Ministry of Health/
Trainirg               Health Depts. arnd others    Departments of Health    Health Departments
gralually assanirg respor- with Population Divi-
sibility for trainirg       sion settirg stardards
their own personnel         and evaluatirg training
Logistics              Population Division         Provincial Health         Provincial Health
Departments              Departments
Evaluation/Researdc    Population Division/        Population Division!      Ministry of Health!
Universities                Universities/Ministry    Universities
of Health
2. Service/IEC Packages       2 FWCs coverirg 15,000
per 100,000 population     population wdth FP/MH 
services ani 50, 000 with
IEC
FP/IM Services only:
i or 2 RSi  centers in      I or 2 RHS centers in    I or 2 RHS centers in
lospitals                   hospitals                hospitals
1 or 2 DOH Rral Health      1 or 2 DOH Rural Health  1 or 2 DOH Rural Health
ccmplexes coverirg 17, 000  complexes                conplexes
population
1 or 2 other health faci-   1 or 2 other health
ities covering 10,000       facilities
population
% population cover-
ed- with FP/PM                 4O|                            27%                     17%
- with IFC                 50-6U1%                          27%                     17%
3. Estimated lead time to          4 years                        6-8 years                 6-8 years
make prcgran fully         To resole management/                  To galn acceptance of role
operational (since plan    coordination problens                  by DOHs and to improe
approval in Nov. 1980)                                            overall health systen



- 64
PAKISTAN - POPULATION PROJECT                    ANNEX 7
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
Fiscal Year/           Disbursements   Cumulated    Cumulated   Undisbursed
Quarter                Per Quarter        Amount            %          Balance
FY83
September 30, 1982/1          .16             .16           1%           17.84
December 31, 1982/1           .05             .21           1%           17.79
March 31, 1983/2             1.32            1.53           9%            16.47
June 30, 1983                 .27           1.80           10%           16.20
FY84
September 30, 1983            .53           2.33           13%           15.67
December 31, 1983            1.02           3.35           20%           14.65
March 31, 1984               1.02           4.37           24%           13.63
June 30, 1984                1.27           5.64           31%           12.36
FY85
September 30, 1984           1.27           6.91           38%           11.09
December 31, 1984            1.27           8.18           45%            9.82
March 31, 1985               1.27           9.45           52%            8.55
June 30, 1985                1.20          10.65           59%            7.35
FY86
September 30, 1985           1.20          11.85           66%            6.15
December 31, 1985            1.20          13.05           72%            4.95
March 31, 1986               1.20          14.25           79%             3.75
June 30, 1986/3              1.18          15.43           86%            2.57
FY87
September 30, 1986            .85          16.28           90%             0.85
December 31, 1986             .86          17.14           95%             0.86
March 31, 1987/4              .86          18.00          100%               .00
/1 Includes Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
/2 Retroactive financing plus remaining PPF funds.
/3 Expected date of project completion.
/4 Closing date.



CRW 1: PAKISIAN RUICN PFUWFA: CIMATKCAL SIUU, MY 1982
Ministry of Planirg ad I%opia
1. T Ntional Lel retary, Fl nthe Prsid eleCf Peaklstan    Chairn: PEes/1t of Pidstan
t/fare                                                        I
l_   s,l
AddItialSet                                                                 f, iary,
| i nt  1e p. 3.                            Set                          DG  T     c                             D.G. Pro
/BThStraining drlald FirecI                                                  pc          e   t
JnSr d r thbn eSt  Y     P         uinaldinstitute                         w
Center b ysearpe  of             of taninl Peseardg  _ 
Statistics) Ilamba               Kaah
Dr-t                                     Yiectr,        r      fi(m   Dire-tr                  actor,   <  Director,                Di nctor
T=        Secretary,   F i         e P>cg arm                       Toechig nical| CLirical         Go;|<n-iication  Info mtc      F      }/1|Stores
AdmLrdstration       _   _uaing               Amstc    Sevices| Tmii           tand Firo u-- and RAfic                         and
and Educr                      I (Kiradi)             Iticn/l Lglorel  Relaticrs            Spi
ticn /1,/2                       (12 RZ)                            I slambaId, 
(2 Rifs)      AffiNate Offices     2/                                                          I 
CetralWaerse and-I
ISiVies Office, Yaadii
/I D?Zt,il aWmzaticnal tasfor a-ogamTviM , IEC, Rruo       i  Eoati-cr in Anex 8, hut 511
and FVa , Chart 1, p. 3.
/2 Both training directorates (clinical and non-clinical) will be placed under the same
Joint Secretary during the Sixth 5-Year Plan.   Buildings for training institutes will                                                              >
house both  types of training  activities.                                                                                                    mt
(DH     
Ht x
0



-66-                                   ANNEX 8
Chart 1
Page 2 of 2
PAKISIAN POPULATION PRfXQAM - ORGANIZATIONAL STRLCTURE
2. Provincial Level/l
Provincial Popilation
Provincial Governnent,              Welfare Council
l                          ~~~~~~~~~Chaitrman: Covernor/
I  ~~~~~~~Chief Minister
Director General/Secretary,
Popxlation
Director,                     Director, Ykmnitoring                Director,
Administration                   land Evaluation                       Techical
Field supervision              RH  supervision
(10 Districts per
DI) - - - - - - - - -)
For IEC/training:
1 DD for comzunication
1 EV/Research Officer
3. District Level
District Pbpulation                District Poplation
Welfare Officer                 Welfare Committee
Chairman: District
Counc-il Chairman
DDW        DDL          DDL           DDPWO
(IEC/Training)
ADMW       ADPWO                 --_-----
20 FWCs
4. Local level                        Fami-ly Welfare Center              Advisory Management
(IOOC0 to 1200)                 Coxmmittee
_                                        Chairman: Member of
4W Counsellor (supervisor)             Union Council
-FWW (in dE>rge)
-WA (male)
-WA (fezale)
-Helper
30-40 Connmuity Volunteers
/1 Provincial organization structures under the DG differ slightly
among provinces, but functions are simil r.
- - - Additional through proposed IDA Project.



-67-
ANNEX 8
Chart 2
CHARI 2: PAKISTAN POPULATION PROGRAM 1981-84 SCHEIMATC PRESENTATION
1. FWCs                   1. Evaluation, Research         1. P.W. Program through
and Statistics                 other departments
2. RES Centers                (through Population
Development Center,         2. P.W. Program through
3. Clinical Training          Islamabad and National        Target Institutions
Institute of Technical
4. Program Training          Research, Karachi)           3. P.W. Program through NGXs
5. IEC                     2. Logistics of Supplies       4. Pbpulation Education in
and Distribution               Schools (MOE/DIXEs)
(through the Directo-
rate of Supplies and        5. Population Education in
Services, and Central          Nn-formal System
Warehouse and Supplies
Office, Karachi)            6. Social Marketing of
Contraceptives
7. P.W. Program through
professional organizations
(e.g. hakims, private doctors)
8. University Population Study
Centers



PAKISTAN - NATIONAL POPULATION PUWI: DGaNR AND GOP SILARI1K OF PROGRAM (OSIS 1982-87
.CUMPLENMM&  'PRO)JECTS' (MS:rDFf LCALL)
Responsibili ty:
Profes-
CORE PROCRAM                             SUPPORT FUNCTIONS                                                                            sional             Armunt
Responsibility: Population Division      Responsibility: F5pulation Division    D011, other  Target Group                                        Associ- Univer-   US8$       Period
Departments  Institutes      MUE/tDOEs            NODs         ations   sities    (D 000 )
Evaluation   Logistics,     FP Services,  FP Services,               Services,    Social             Demn-
Financirg                       Clinical   Program    Admin-       and           Equipent       IEC           IPC            Poptilation  TPI          Mariket-          graphy
FwC    RHS   IEC   Training   Trainirp,  istration   Research       and Suipplies   Act ivi t ies    Activities    Murcation   Activities   ing    I d=s  Prograns
/1
GaP        54%          3 5%     I0         35%        IOD%           IGZ          157.          /1              /1           33 G%'                            2(11
UNFPA       8%   30I    _        9(%                                                                                                       3 ==-
USAID                                                                  737          60Z                                                                                           27,200    d2-87
Region       Nat-l              National                 Regional                     Regional       Regional     National
TrYx      -al                                                                       15%
3()          6 5                 6 5%                                                 20Z            2G(%         6,5%                                                18,000    82-86
WHO                                                                     2%                                                                                                             45    1982
UNICEF                                                                                               8                                                                               715    82-87
ADB               20/                                                                                                                                                                 500    1982
/2
UK-O(1A     8%|                                                        15%                                                                                              tlrbdedded
/1 1%    1,500   82-86
Foreign
NGDs                                                                                                                                       4CR         10i%5
Govern-
rent of
Japan                                                                                lo /| 1,340    1982
Govern-
nrent of                                                                                                                                                                                                         05.cde 
Canada    uundecided                                 -            - _ _  _                                                                                                        |   undecided
OPFEC      ;ndecided                                                                                                                                                                 undedded
Note: Percent numahers are only indicative of relative inpDrtance of assistance or contribution.
/I Less intensive inptits than in externaly finanred districts or no coverage with this act Evity outside project districts.
/2 Possible co-financirg with IDA beirg considered.



- 69 -                      ANNEX 8
Chart 4
Page 1 of 2
PAKISrAN - POPULATION PROJECr
CHART 4: PROJECT AMINISTRATION, STRUCTURE, AND RESPONSIBILrTIES FAR
COXORDSIATION AND IMP   N ATION
Project Coordinator: Joint Secretary, Planning, Population Welfare Division
Provinces: Project activities to be coordinated and implemented by respective Directors
General of Population Welfare.
Project Ca1pornent                    Responsibility for
Coordination                    Implementation By:
National
1. Program Training                   Directorate of Program         EWrls-Lahore and Karachi,
Training and Education
Population Welfare Division
2. IEC                                Directorate of Conuuni-        C&P Directorate, Pro-
cation and Production          vincial Conmunication
(Lahore), Population           Officers, District
Welfare Division               Comnunication Officers
FW staff, volunteers
3. Population education in            Directorate of Program         PT&E Directorate (POPED
schools                            Training and Education,        Cell), MOE (POPED Cell)
Population Welfare             Provincial Departnents
Division                       of Education, Teacbers,
all levels
Regional
1. FWCs                               FWC Directorate,               Provincial Population
Population Welfare             Welfare Offices, FWC
Division                       staff, APCs and recruited
Volunteers
2. F.P. service outlets of            Provincial Planning             Provincial Departments of
other Government Departments       and Development                 Health, Social Welfare,
Departments                    Labor, Agriculture and
Local Government
3. F.P. service outlets of Target     Director General                Public Sector
Group Institutions                 Programs, Pbpulation            Institutions
Welfare Division



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Chart 4
Page 2 of 2
Support Functions
1. Project Administration and        Joint Secretary, Planning,    - Project Administration
Preparation of Subsequent         Population Welfare              Cell
Project                           Division                      - Engineering Advisor,
Consultant Architects
- Directorate of Supplies
and Services (prclure-
ment)
- Finance Directorate
(accounting, disbmnrs-
ments)
2. Monitoring and Evaluation         Population Development        PDC, Universities, Con-
Center                        sultants
3. Innovative Activities             Joint Secretary, Planning
Populatiorl Welfare
Division



-71-
ANNEX 8
Chart 5
Page 1 of 2
CHART 5:  ORGANIZATIONAL STRLXTURES OF PROJECT  SUB-CCUUONENTS          g
1 e PROGRAM TRAINING
|Director, TraIning and|
Population Education
1-
HWTIs /   (2)                                  |Ptrovincial Officers|
Principal - 
Pbpulation            Field Training/      |Administrationi
Division              Other Organiza-                        Sr. Instructor    Jr. Instructor
Higher Level          tions                1 Admin. Officer  Jr. Instructor
Staff Training                             I Accounts Asst.
1 Sr. Instructor    2 Stenotypists
1 Sr. Instructor       3 Jr. Instructors   1 Urdu Typist
2 Jr. Instructors                           1 UDC
2 Drivers
AV Unit                    3 Naib--Qasid
1 AV Officer
1 Projectionist
1 Librarian
/1 Same organization for both PWTIIs (Lahore and Karachi).



-72-
ANNEX 8
Chart 5
Page 2 of 2
ORGANIZATIONAL CHARD
DIRECICRATE OF CMMDNICAMION AND PRDDUCrTON
I. NATIONAL
IEVEL
|Administration|           Informatim,               Pakistan           Production
and               _  Education, and             Pbpulation             and
Accounits                Communication         Information Center      Printing
II. PRDVINCIAL
IEVEL
Sind                 Punjab                                     Baluchistan
1 ProvinPcial         1 Provincial          1 Provincia            1Provincial
Commnincation         Comunuication         Ccminuication          Conmmnication
Deputy                Deputy                Deputy                 Deputy
1 Evaluation/         1 Evaluation/         1 Evaluation/
Research Officer      Research Officer      Research Officer
III. DISrRICr
IEVEL
District Co(uLmi-      District Communi-      District Communi-    District CommLni-
cation Deputies(17)    cation Deputies(28jJ   cation Deputies(12)   cation Deputies(16)



-73-
ANNEX 8
Table 1 and 2
Table 1.1: POPULATICON REtS, 1901-1980
Average Anual                                     Average Arnual
Population Estimates       Population            Population Estimates         Population
Census   (mid-year)    Growth Rate               Census   (mid-year)       Growth Rate
(thousands)              (%)                     (thousands)                (%)
1901    16,576/1       -             -            1972    65,309    64,910              2.9
1911    19,382         -             0.7          1973                66,850            2.9
1921    21,109         -             0.9          1974                68,848            2.9
1931    23,542         -             1.1          1975                70,905            2.9
1941    28,282         -             1.8          1976                73,024            2.9
1951    33,740/1       -             1.7          1977                75,207            2.9
1961    46,200/2       -             2.4          1978                77,454            2.9
1979               79,769             2.9
1980               82,153             2.9
1981    83,782/3  84,556              2.8
1982               86,923             2.8
/1 Excluding population of frontier regions.
/2  Corrected for underreration.
/3 Excluding Afghan refugees living in camps.
Sources: Planning and Development Division and Population
Division, August 1980 and World Development Report, 1982.
Table 2:  POPULATION PROJECTIONS, 1980-2000
(thousands)
1980      1985       1990       1995       2000
Projection I/1                82,153    94,096    105,856  117,221   128,116
Projection II/2               82,153    94,096    106,823   120,293   134,457
/1  Projection I assumes fast decline in the total fertility rate from
6.1 in 1980 to 3.3 in the year 2000.
/2  Projection II is from the World Development Report, 1982.
It assumes that the total fertility rate falls from 6.1 in 1980 to
4.1 in the year 2000.



TABLE 3: REGIONAL PROJECT COMPONENT: SOCIOECONOMIC
AND DEMOGRAPHIC DATA OF PROJECT DISTRICTS
PUNJAB                    SIND                        NWFP             Baluchistan
_______     All Project
Sheik-                    Thar-                                                         Districts
Multan  hupura  Jhang   Karachi  parkar Sukkur   Kohat   Bannu  Mansehra  Quetta   Sibi
Population (1981
(000)                 4,068   2,101  1,962   5,353    1,501   1,120        751      699    1,055       380   129        19,119
Average annual popu-
lation growth rate                                                                                                                   X
1972-1981 (%)            3.0      2.8     2.7      4.6     4.6      3.4     3.0      2.5       2.0      4.8    2_6           3z5
Population density
per square mile           -        913    577   3,930        138     -        277     412       -         143    -
% Urban, 1981             _         18     23       95        17     -         18       9       _          75    -
% Literacy (1972
census)                   _      17.0    15.3    51.2    15.4        -      20.4    13.8        _      23.9      -
Economic base                   Agric.
Agric.  & Ind.  Agric.   Ind.    Agric.  Agric.  Agric.  Agric.   Agric.   Agric. Agric.
Estimated infant
mortality rate         110-120 105-115 110-120  90-100 115-125 110-120 110-120 115-125  115-125  110-115 110-115
w >4



-75--
ANNEX 8
Table 4
TABLE 4: REGIONAL COMPONENT: NUMBER OF FWCS AND OTHER FP
OUTLETS IN HEALTH FACILITIES OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND INSTITUTIONS
(a) FWCs
FWCs
Province and
District                        Existing      New      Total
Punjab Province
Sheikhupura                       27           8          35
Jhang                             25           4          29
Multan                            43            8         51
Sind Province
Karachi (3 districts)             56            9         65
Tharkarpar                        17            5         22
Sukkur                            22           4          26
NWFP Province
Kohat                             15            -         15
Bannu                             20           -          20
Mansehra                          16            2         18
Baluchistan Province
Quetta                             6            1          7
Sibi                               4            1          5
Total                            251          42        293
(b) FP Outlets in Health Facilities of Other Departments
Type of Facility                         Project Year
1      2        3       4       Total
Hospital                         18      18       26      27         89
Out-patient                     122    122       183    184         611
Total                           140    140       209    211         700
(c) FP Outlets in Health Facilities of Target Group Institutions
Type of Facility                         Project Year
1      2        3       4       Total
Hospital                          2       2        3       4         11
Out-patient                       8       8       11      12         39
Total                            10      10       14      16         50



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN POPULATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.      GOP Basic Documents and Background Papers prepared for IDA missions:
Fifth Five Year Plan - Population Welfare Plan 1980-83, Population
Division, Ministry of Planning and Development, Islamabad, February
1981 (subsequently rolled to 1981-84)
"Brief for World Bank Identification Mission", Population Division,
March 1981
"Brief for World Bank Preparation Mission" (including several position
papers), Population Division, July 1981
"Brief for World Bank Pre--appraisal Mission" (including data, and
position papers), Population Division, November 1981
"Population Project 1982-86 for Submission to the World Bank",
Population Division, January 13, 1982
2.      Documents Prepared by IDA--PPF Financed Consultants
"The Functions, Resources and Management of Family Welfare Centers",
by Dr. Rosemary McMahon and Beat A. Jenny, consultants to GOP's
Population Division, Islamabad, December 1, 1981
"Master Trainers Workshop: Final Report, Recommendations and
Evaluation" - George Blackmon, William Sweeney (IEC); Richard Reynolds
(Community Development); Rosemary McMahon (MCH/community medicine);
and Kent Chabotar (Evaluation) - Lahore, April 1982.
3.      Papers Prepared by IDA Population Missions as Background for
Discussions with GOP and/or as Guidelines for Project Preparation
"Report on IEC Component", Royal Colle, Cornell University, Department
of Communication and Arts, IEC Consultant to IDA preparation mission,
July 1981
"Aide Memoire: Pakistan Proposed Population Project,
Pre-appraisal/Preparation Mission, June 26-July 15, 1981" (it includes
a plan of action for project preparation, instructions and
questionnaires for collection of cost data; and TOR for several
consultancies under PPF)
"Description of a Suggested Approach to Functional Analysis", PHN
Department, Washington, D.C., July 1981
"Staff Orientation Program", PHN Department, Washington, D.C., July
1981



-77-
'Review of Training for the Population Program", PHN Department, July
1981
'Suggested Contents for a Session on Work Planning, as Part of the
orientation Program for Population Division Staff", PEN Department,
Washington, D.C., July 1981
"Aide Memoire: Pakistan - Proposed Population Project - Pre-Appraisal
Mission", Islamabad, November 1981
Aide Memoire: Pakistan - Proposed Population Project - Appraisal
Mission", Islamabad, May 1982
'The Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Component", Mark
Lediard, Consultant to IDA Population Appraisal Mission to Pakistan,
Washington, D.C., June 1982
"The Mid-censal Demographic Survey", John Cleland, Consultant to IDA
Population Appraisal Mission to Pakistan, London, July 1982
4.   ~~s - Detailed maps of each Project District with Location of
Proposed FP Outlets and FWC, and other health facilities
5.      Project Impleme-tation Manual - Contents:
Detailed Cost Tables for each Sub-component
Description of Detailed Cost Tables (including equipment and materials
lists, course lists and training schedules, unit costs and other bases
for cost estimates)
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services Fellowships, Studies and
Surveys
Functions, Responsibilities and Staffing Patterns of new population
organizational structures for: Program Training; IEC; Population
Education; FWCs






IBRD 16585R1
68-                                       7|2                                       7'6-               MARCH  1983
PAKISTAN                                                                                                                              C H I N A
POPULATION  DENSITY AND PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                                                                 " -
30-rs/                                                                                                                                        <                                             A e,ooovrme doSde,
POPULATION:
Persons per square kilometer                                                                                                                            f
600                                                                               SM A L'A KANDK  AApro,.reoe N                               .
~50 
-50                                                4                 4                                     n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rd tored 4L CA,ro
/7=Z 1 Project Districts                                                                  1        \6  2'O4                               JAMMU
Main Towns                           ~Pk                                                                                             N
   National Capital                                          <          - t                                                         KASHMAN
District  Boundaries                                                      p**d az 4i/4)L9T( 7 _   i R            tndt
Division  Boundaries                          *' '
^~'1 N~                                 J  D      ~        R'G 0  D             BehoHeolnngrn
K                                                             A )   MouLi  =$                    G        V  100n 20eii                             / 3OO
-24'  A      ab     an S     ano-        -e                         hsm7 hsbsn reasdbyTh Wr Snes <a  slrny orYe                  eo
"TUea (>A  $o hIuS  a s h
-28'* 
j   ~   A                                                                                  lmFA/   on Lhe '  T
-,~-                     LI i
-~6 Povnrh                                                            Oe            ,                                          72-R7
*      Selre ~~~D 5         ooS   hs.h            -
Kr nj~~~~~~~~~~~~                         0~~(         100         20~0         300         400
('THA   ARILA~~~~~~~~~~                      KILOMETERS
-2'    Arba                          Se                      ~'A
oI   p h-. b-o p,orto-d by The WohA Bonke~ ntun e.,-lrny- orffi oo,roe
ah de- and iseco,e,for the nerlueo The Wortd a-ki aId no.   = feOaOa
,.poy on the prt of The Wood Book aod hetronh. ra F-ooc Corpori- ,uo.aryet-
ortr o   taton 0 any toIy o( or ay eooro-rert or -optan- or -h b-odanas
64                                                 8                                                  72'                                                 76'



