OFFI CIA L
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1350 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Population Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1350 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting 6y its President (herein-
after called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland is considering making a grant (hereinafter
called the UK Grant) in an amount of about one million seven
hundred thousand pounds sterling (E 1,700,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an exchange of letters between the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Borrower (hereinafter
called the UK Grant Document); and
(C) the United States Agency for International Development
intends to make funds available (hereinafter referred to as the
USAID Funding) to the Borrower in a principal amount of about
three million four hundred thousand dollars ($3,400,000) to
assist in financing part the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement entered into between the Borrower and the
United States Agency for International Development (hereinafter
referred to as the USAID Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force *and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "IEC" means activities related to information, educa-
tion and communication;
(b) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(c) "Population Welfare Division" means the Population
Welfare Division within the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
Development;
(d)  "Project Districts" means those Districts set forth or
referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(e)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 26, 1981 and
July 21, 1981 and related telexes between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set -forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit


﻿-3-
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1993, and ending May 15
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-4-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,                 )
financial, technical, public health and family planning prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain a Project Administration Cell within the
Population Welfare Division with qualified staff in sufficient
numbers to carry out, or to supervise the implementation of, the
Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981, in-
cluding, without limitation on the foregoing, by September 1,
1983, an IEC training/planning consultant and an IEC materials
design and production consultant.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, training
programs and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Pro-
ject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish,
or cause to be furnished, to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. With respect to the Population Welfare
Division, the Borrower shall cause such Division:
(a) by September 1, 1983, to employ an instructor for its
Directorate of Program Training and Population Education;
(b) by December 1, 1983, to distribute throughout provin-
cial and district population offices a manual relating to the
functions, resources and management of a family welfare center
which shall be used as guidelines for carrying out activities
under Part B.1 of the Project;
(c) to employ and maintain sufficient qualified staff with
experience in procurement, logistics and management, specifically
a Director and a Deputy Director of Supplies and Services in
Islamabad and a Deputy Director in its Central Warehouse and
Supplies Office in Karachi;
(d) by July 1, 1984, to furnish to the Association for
review and comment a report on the staffing patterns and needs of
family welfare centers within the Project Districts and to take
steps by December 1, 1984, to implement recommendations satisfac-
tory to the Association; and
(e) by May 1 of each year beginning May 1, 1983, to review
and approve the training plans referred to in Section 3.09 (b)
hereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1984, for-
malize in writing the understanding between the Population Wel-
fare Division and MOE, relating to the overall plan for popula-
tion education, the roles and responsibilities of Population
Welfare Division, MOE and the Provincial education departments,
and budgetary provisions.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1984, estab-
lish, and thereafter maintain within MOE a population education
cell with qualified and experienced staff including a population
education specialist.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by December 1, 1983,
employ in the Population Welfare Division's Directorate of
Communication and Production, a Director and a Deputy Director
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association, and shall appoint qualified staff in the following


﻿-7-
new IEC positions: about 15 at the national level, about 15 at
the provincial level, and about 130 at the district level.
Section 3.09. With respect to the Directorate of Program
Training and Population Welfare Training Institutes referred
to in Part A.1 of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a) by September 1, 1983 appoint qualified staff to all
teaching positions; and
(b) cause each said Institute to prepare annually national
and district training plans for submission to the Population
Welfare Division.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the provincial pop-
ulation welfare directorates to prepare an annual plan of action
for the operation of family planning outlets in health facilities
of other provincial departments and public ;ectcr institutions in
the Project Districts, and shall obtain by July 1 of each year,
beginning in 1983, the agreement to such plan by the relevant
provincial departments and public sector institutions.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shEll maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources   and  expenditures, in    respect  of   the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the
Provinces responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expendi-
tures and records referred to in -paragraph (b) of this Section as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(d) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall
furnish unaudited-accounts of the nature referred to in (c) above
to the Association not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the


﻿Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For, the purposes' of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified in
paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council or appropriate approving authority shall have approved
the PC-1 documents with respect to the Project; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the UK
Grant Document or the right to make withdrawals thereunder,
except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date       L9       * 4/3, is hereby
specified for the purposes of ection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.05 (c), 3.07, 3.08, 3.09 (b) and 3.10 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 15 years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                            ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11~ -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Author zed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                1I    /    2      '
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category   .          SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              550,000            100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
75% of local
expenditures
for items
procured
locally
(2) Consultants              1,250,000            100%
services, prep-
aration of mid-
censal survey
and future.
projects
(3) Local training           3,130,000           95%
and project
administration
cell
(4) Operating costs          8,200,000           90% through
June 30, 1984;
75% through
June 30, 1985;
55% through
June 30, 1986


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(5) Refunding of               270,000            Amount due
Project Prepa-                                under Section
ration Advance                               2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated              3,200,000
TOTAL     16,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation,. manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 1,400,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3)
and (4) on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after July 1, 1982.


﻿- 14 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimat-. that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development .Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the Borrower's national population
program by:
1.   Establishing two Population Welfare Training Institutes
(one in Lahore and one in Karachi) to develop course
curricula, teaching aids, training manuals and a pro-
gram of continued education for trainers and field
workers.
2.   Establishing the information, education and communica-
tions organization by providing training and materials,
by having a new Directorate of Communication and Pro-
duction in Lahore to develop, design and coordinate all
such activities.
3.   Expanding and strengthening population education in the
formal school system by assisting with teacher train-
ing, curricula development and materials.
4.   Providing related vehicles, equipment, materials and
support for fellowships, evaluation, studies, surveys,
innovative activities, consulting services and operat-
ing costs.
Part B:   Strengthening the Borrower's regional population pro-
gram by:
1.   Establishing community development family welfare cen-
ters (about 42 new centers and conversion of about 250
existing clinics) in 13 districts (Multan, Sheikhupura,
Jhang, Karachi (3), Tharparkar, Sukkur, Kohat, Bannu,
Mansehra, Quetta and Sibi).
2.   Establishing family planning services and education/
motivation activities in about 700 provincial and local
health facilities.
3.   Establishing family planning services and providing
information/education to employees and their families


﻿- 16 -
through approximately 50 health outlets operated by
major public sector institutions.
4.   Providing related vehicles, equipment and materials
including  contraceptives and   support   for  training,
evaluation, studies, surveys, innovative activities,
community activities and operating costs.
Part C:   Preparation  of a mid-censal    survey   and of   future
population projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.    Contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to encourage
competition and to permit bulk procurement consistent with
appropriate technical and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with t:! procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After-evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering      goods manufactured   in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 19 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts  for   equipment,  furniture   and  materials
estimated to cost less than $30,000 but more than $5,000
equivalent may be awarded in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided that the
aggregate expenditure for items so procured shall not exceed
$150,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts  for   equipment,   furniture  and  materials
estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or less may be awarded after
prudent local shopping after solicitation of at least three price
quotations; provided that the aggregate expenditure for items so
purchased shall not exceed $50,000 equivalent.
3.   Medical supplies may be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $30,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 20 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is ,ride, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which i. intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds -from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 s.
FOR SECRETARY


