Report No. PID8334
Project Name                     Central African Republic-Policy...
Support Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Public Sector Management Adjustment;
Economic Management
Project ID                       CFPE64149
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency
Address
Technical Committee for Structural
Adjustment Program (CTP-PAS)
Contact Person: Mr. Marcel Nganassem,
President of the CTP-PAS
Tel: (236) 61-05-66
Fax: (236) 61-62-35
Email: ngamasem@intnet.cf
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 2, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 3,2000
Projected Board Date             May 30,2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector issues: inefficient public enterprises, notably in the utilities
sector; weak Government capacity to articulate, implement and monitor
economic reforms;unskilled, unmotivated and poorly paid civil
service;insufficient political and popular support for the reform
program;serious knowledge gaps on poverty, social sectors and the most
promising productive activities;deficient statistical
infrastructure;inability to tap mining potential efficiently and in a
transparent manner, due to absence of sectoral strategy, outdated mining
code and weak institutions.Government strategy: In a still fragile
post-conflict situation, the Government short-term strategy focuses on
fiscal consolidation to sustain civil peace and provide basic public
sector services. In this respect, improving revenue mobilization to
ensure timely payment of salaries (particularly to the military) and
privatization to help Government focus on its basic functions are
essential. The Government relies mainly on two externally- financed task
forces, the Technical Committee for Structural Adjustment (CTP-PAS) and
the Privatization Commission to implement and monitor its reform program.
The Government is aware of the need to build support for the reform
program and has successfully implemented some difficult measures recently
(e.g., reduction in cotton producer prices; increase in petroleum prices)
following public information campaigns. The Government intends to
strengthen support for the reform program, notably through consultations
with stakeholders on key aspects of the reform program and on the Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The Government is aware of the need to reverse the
fall in incomes and the deterioration in social indicators, and have
started to correct the situation (for instance, budget allocations for



health and education have been increased), but a lot remains to be done in
this area. More recently, the Government has endorsed the PRS approach,
created a technical committee to manage the PRS process and prepared a
draft interim PRS paper.      The Government is aware that good policy
requires good macroeconomic and sectoral data, as well as social
indicators, and intends to start rebuilding its statistical capacity,
which has suffered from the mutinies and subsequent adverse developments.
A statistical development plan has already been mapped out with IMF
assistance and a statistical law will be submitted to the Parliament
shortly. The Government is keen on developing CAR mining resources in a
more transparent manner, but so far, has lacked the technical assistance
and financial resources to formulate a sector strategy, revise the mining
code, improve the business environment, notably secure property rights,
and strengthen sectoral institutions.
2. Objectives
Within a still fragile post-conflict context, the project aims at helping
the Government: implement its reform program supported by the recently
approved Fiscal Consolidation Credit (FCC), particularly the privatization
program; articulate its poverty reduction strategy (PRS); start rebuilding
its statistical infrastructure; strengthen the management of the promising
mining sector; and further strengthen the technical committee in charge of
the reform program. The reform program supported by the FCC includes: (i)
improving budget management, notably through the non-accumulation of
additional salary arrears, the non-granting of new special tax exemptions
to mining and logging operations and the settlement of PETROCA's
obligations to the Road Fund; and (ii) expanding privatization and
liberalization, notably through preparation of appropriate policy and
regulatory frameworks; creation of an autonomous regulatory body for the
utilities sector; and bringing ENERCA (the power company) to the point of
lease, and SOCATEL (the telecommunications company) to the point of
sale.The building blocks for the poverty reduction strategy include the
updating of knowledge and preparation of diagnostic studies on social
sectors and productive sectors where growth is most likely to benefit the
poor. The sectors concerned are education, health (including the HIV/AIDS
problem), cotton, livestock, forestry, rural transportation and mining.
Following extensive consultations with stakeholders, the Government would
use those studies to formulate its PRS.The rebuilding of the statistical
infrastructure, which suffered from the mutinies of 1995-96 and
subsequently from inadequate resources, is expected to improve the quality
and timeliness of statistics and to enhance the quality of policy making
in all areas.The formulation of a sector strategy for the mining sector,
the revision of the mining code and the strengthening of the Ministry in
charge of mining are expected to improve the development prospects of the
sector, through a business environment more conducive to investment,
notably foreign investment, within a more transparent framework.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The following reasons justify Bank involvement in the project. The PSP
aims at the timely implementation of the recently approved FCC, which
makes IDA uniquely qualified to carry out this companion project. It is
also important, after several years of neglect, to reverse the increase in
poverty and the deterioration in social indicators, and the first step is
the preparation by the Government of a Poverty Reduction Strategy, another
key goal of the proposed operation. IDA is uniquely qualified to carry out
- 2-



this component of the project. The Bank experience in mining development
in many countries and also its past involvement in the sector in CAR
justify IDA's involvement in the mining component of the PSP. IDA
involvement in the statistics component is justified by the importance of
having accurate and timely statistics and by the existence of relevant
expertise in the Bank. However, cooperation with the IMF and AFRISTAT will
be sought. On a more general level, Bank involvement is also justified by
the relative dearth of donor assistance. In particular, UNDP financial
assistance to the CTP-PAS has been discontinued recently; and CAR is in
non-accrual status with the African Development Bank, which thus, cannot
provide financial support. The Bank will make the best use of studies
prepared by or with the help of other donors, e.g., previous work on
poverty sponsored by UNDP, the EU-financed transport sector strategy and
the French AFD-financed cotton sector strategy. The IMF will be relied
upon to improve macroeconomic stability, notably the performance of
revenue collecting agencies.
4. Description
(1) Technical Assistance to implement Privatization and Regulation program
(2) Technical Assistance to Prepare Poverty Reduction Strategy
(3) Support to the Technical Committee for Structural Adjustment
(4) TA to start implement Statistical Plan
(5) Strengthening of Ministry in Charge of Mining
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.50
IBRD
IDA                      8.00
Total Project Cost       8.50
6. Implementation
Estimated period of implementation is 42 months after effectiveness.
Overall supervision is by the Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the
Minister Delegate of Finance and Budget, which has been overseeing the
reform program for the past few years.Overall technical coordination is by
the CTP-PAS, which has been created by the Government in 1998 to advise on
the reform program and monitor its implementation. The CTP-PAS has
efficiently carried out its functions. The privatization and regulation
component will be implemented by the Privatization Commission. The latter
is in great need of strengthening as it is just beginning to hire
technical staff under the PPF, and will receive support from the CTP-PAS,
at least at the beginning. The recently created technical committee for
the PRS will implement the Poverty Reduction Strategy component and will
be supported by the PSP.The Statistical Division of the Ministry of
Economy, Planning and International Cooperation will implement the
Statistical Strengthening component.The Ministry in charge of the mining
sector, in particular the General Directorate of Mining and the BECDOR
(valuation office) will implement the mining component of the PSP.
Financial Management The Bank has reviewed the project implementation
agencies CTP-PAS and the Privatization Commission in Bangui in February
2000 in order to assess the financial management systems and capacity of
the two agencies. The CTP-PAS which has had previous experience in
handling IDA operations through adjustment operations has a staff of nine
people, including an experienced accountant who had been the accountant of
- 3-



another IDA funded project, the Transport Sector Project. The CTP-PAS has
been managing the PPF of US$350,000 using manual accounting procedures
which are not formalized. The Privatization Commission has no staff except
its President and does not have any accounting system in place. The IDA
team concluded that in view of insufficient local accounting capacity and
the relative small size of the credit, the project accounts should be kept
by the CTP-PAS. The Privatization Commission would retain the
responsibility for making commitments but would transfer invoices for
payment and recording to the CTP-PAS. The CTP-PAS would be responsible
for the management of the Special Account and the Project Account, the
preparation of    consolidated project accounts, the preparation of
withdrawal applications, and eventually the preparation of quarterly PMR.
A consultant will be recruited to (i) help CTP-PAS design an accounting
and financial management system acceptable to IDA; (ii) prepare an
accounting manual; (iii) assist CTP-PAS purchase a project software and in
its customization; and finally (iv) train CTP-PAS staff in the use of the
accounting software. During the first year of the project and as soon as
the project accounting system is functioning, the project will prepare an
action plan over an 18 months period to produce PMR quarterly under LACI.
Terms of reference for the recruitment of the above mentioned consultant
and the short list of firms acceptable to IDA have been agreed with the
borrower.
7. Sustainability
Sustained civil peace in a still fragile post-conflict situation and
support for the reform program are critical for the sustainability of
project benefits, during and after project implementation. Adequate
implementation capacity in the executing agencies, notably the CTP-PAS is
also critical. Realistically, the sustainability of the benefits of the
present operation is low.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned from previous operations in CAR (investment and
adjustment), notably the Economic Management Project, the most recent IDA
Technical Assistance project in CAR (ICR dated June 26, 1997, Report No.
16799) include: projects should have clear and limited objectives and
their design must be kept simple to fit the borrower limited
implementation capacity;     given the weakness of the civil service, which
is aggravated by serious budget constraints resulting in salary arrears of
about 12 months, and the likelihood of political interference, interim
substitution technical assistance (domestic and foreign) is appropriate to
complete urgent and priority tasks and programs.project objectives must be
consistent with instruments; in particular, long-term institution building
objectives are not consistent with a short-term lending operation.lack of
ownership impacts negatively on projects.The design of the present
operation takes into account these lessons:its objectives are relatively
simple as they consist mainly of ensuring the timely implementation of the
FCC and of providing inputs to the Authorities' Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper. the operation does not overestimate the capacity of the public
administration to implement the project and rather, provides interim,
substitution technical assistance to task forces that operate outside the
civil service.the Minister of Finance, who is also the Prime Minister, is
committed to the success of this project, which is key to the
implementation of the reform program.
- 4-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         none
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Slaheddine Khenissi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-9293
Fax:   (202) 473-8466
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 5 -



