                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                     Report No: 29997

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (PPFI-Q1530 IDA-33600)

                                 ON A

                                CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6 MILLION

                      (US$8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

                                FOR A

                       POLICY SUPPORT PROJECT




                            December 23, 2004




POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT (AFTP3)
AFRICA REGION

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective July 15, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = CFAF
                                       CFAF 1 = US$ 0.0001853
                                         US$ 1 = 539.6

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BECDOR:    Bureau d'évaluation et de contrôle des diamants et de l'or
CAR        Central African Republic
CFAF       CFA franc
CTP/PAS    Permanent Technical Committee for Structural Adjustment Program
ENERCA     Energie de Centrafrique (Power Company)
FCC        Fiscal Consolidation Credit
GOCAR      Government of Central African Republic
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immune deficiency syndrome
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IMT        Intermediate Means of transport
LICUS      Low Income Countries Under Stress
PETROCA    The Central African Oil Company (Compagnie des Pétroles de Centrafrique)
PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRS         Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSP        Policy Support Project
PSR         Project supervision report
SOCATEL    Société Centrafricaine des télélcomunications
SOCOCA     Société Cotonnière Centrafricaine
TOR        Terms of reference
UNDP       United Nations Development Program


                                Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director:       Ali M. Khadr
                              Sector Manager:        Cadman A. Mills
                           Task Team Leader:         Abdoulaye Seck

                             CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                               POLICY SUPPORT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            20
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 21

Project ID: P064149                                                  Project Name: CAR - POLICY SUPPORT PROJECT
Team Leader: Nestor Ntungwanayo                                      TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CAR - POLICY SUPPORT PROJECT                             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1530; IDA-33600
   Country/Department: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (86%); Power (6%); Law and
                            justice (5%); Telecommunications (3%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (P); Economic statistics,
                            modeling and forecasting (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and
                            monitoring (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/15/1998                                     Effective: 09/01/2000                04/06/2001
     Appraisal: 04/11/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/30/2000                                      Closing: 08/31/2004                 06/24/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ali Khadr                                      Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Cadman A. Mills                                Lawrence Hinkle
Team Leader at ICR:             Abdoulaye Seck                                 Slaheddine Khenissi
ICR Primary Author:             Kofi Amponsah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. Country Background. The Policy Support Project (PSP) was appraised, approved and
implemented in exceptional security and socioeconomic circumstances. At project appraisal in 2000,
Central African Republic (CAR) was recovering from the consequences of the 1996 military mutinies
which dealt a severe blow to the foundations of a narrow and fragile economy. In December 1999, the
World Bank approved a Fiscal Consolidation Credit (FCC) in the amount of US$20 million to assist the
authorities in meeting their vital needs, including salaries payment to the military in order to strengthen
peace and stability. In May 2000, the Bank approved the Policy Support Project (PSP). Unfortunately, the
hopes for peace were short-lived as violent fighting erupted again in 2001.

3.1.2. In May 2001--few weeks after the PSP became effective--former President André Kolingba
attempted a coup, which the incumbent President Patasse overcame with the support of a rebel group from
the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The military operations in the city of Bangui, following the
coup attempt, created an emergency situation with dramatic implications for the population. The ensuing
investigation led to the dismissal of General Francois Bozize, the Army Chief of Staff. The Minister of
Defense and some prominent military officers were also arrested during the second semester of 2001. In
November 2001, an attempt to arrest General François Bozize led to a renewed fighting in Bangui.
Eventually, Bozize fled to Chad, and cross-border clashes between soldiers loyal to him and government
troops occurred intermittently. A new bout of fighting erupted in Bangui on October 25, 2002 between
rebels loyal to Francois Bozize, and troops backing President Patasse. Again with the support of a Libyan
contingent and members of a rebel militia in DRC, government troops gained the upper hand within a few
days.

3.1.3. In early March 2003, rebel forces led by General Francois Bozize, launched a decisive
counterattack on government forces, and quickly regained control of most cities they lost during the
offensive by government forces in February 2003. On March 15, 2003, they entered the city of Bangui with
very little resistance from government troops. Bozize proclaimed himself as the new President, dismissed
the Government and Parliament, and suspended the Constitution. President Bozize established a new
Government and a National Transitional Council to act as a parliamentary body.

3.1.4. The vicious cycle of periodic mutinies and coup attempts has disrupted the implementation of the
Policy Support Project. The political tensions in CAR--with episodes of highly intensive clashes--has also
disrupted donors' involvement as many discontinued their field presence, and it has led to a slump in net
external assistance. CAR's dire financial situation is reflected in significant arrears to bilateral and
multilateral institutions which have suspended disbursements. Following the coup attempt in May 2001,
CAR accumulated arrears to IDA and disbursements were suspended between August 2001 and November
2001. In January 2002, there was a new suspension of disbursement and the CAR is on non-accrual status
since June 3, 2002. Overall, the total number of months between effectiveness and closing dates in which
the PSP was disbursing did not exceed six months, severely limiting inputs from the project and thus its
final outcome. Arrears as of November 1, 2004, amount to US$37.37 million.

3.1.5. Original Objective. Within the fragile post-conflict context described above, the PSP was
designed to help the Government of Central African Republic (GOCAR) in implementing its reform
program supported by the recently approved FCC, particularly the privatization program; articulate a
poverty reduction strategy (PRS); start rebuilding the statistical infrastructure; strengthen the management
of the promising mining sector; and further strengthen CTP-PAS, the technical committee in charge of the
reform program.



                                                    - 2 -

3.1.6. The reform program supported by the FCC included: (i) improving budget management, notably
through the non accumulation of additional salary arrears, the non-granting of new special tax exemptions
to mining and logging operations and the settlement of PETROCA's (the public monopoly for the
distribution of petroleum products) obligations to the Road Fund; and (ii) expanding privatization and
liberalization, notably through preparation of appropriate policy and regulatory frameworks; creation of an
autonomous regulatory body for the utilities sector; and bringing ENERCA (the State-owned power
company) to the point of lease, and SOCATEL (the State-owned telecommunications company) to the point
of sale.

3.1.7. The building blocks for the poverty reduction strategy included the updating of knowledge and
preparation of diagnostic studies on social sectors and productive sectors where growth is most likely to
benefit the poor. The sectors concerned were education, health (including the HIV/AIDS problem), cotton,
livestock, forestry, rural transportation and mining. Following extensive consultations with stakeholders,
the Government would have used those studies to formulate its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS).

3.1.8. The rebuilding of statistical infrastructure, which suffered from the 1996 mutinies and
subsequently from inadequate resources, was expected to improve the quality and timeliness of statistics,
thus enhancing the quality of policy making in all areas.

3.1.9. The formulation of a sector strategy in the mining sector, the revision of the mining code and the
strengthening of the Ministry in charge of mining were expected to improve the development prospects of
the sector, through a business environment more conducive to investment, notably foreign investment,
within a more transparent framework.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised and remained the same throughout the project cycle.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The Policy Support Project (PSP) had five components: (i) technical assistance to implement the
Government's privatization and regulation program; (ii) technical assistance to help prepare a poverty
reduction strategy; (iii) technical assistance to start implementing a statistical development plan; (iv)
strengthening of the ministry in charge of mining; and (v) support to CTP-PAS.

3.3.2. Component 1: Privatization and regulation program. This component of the PSP, with a total
cost of US$3.87 million, aimed to:

    (i) strengthen the Privatization Commission which was created to advise the Government on
         privatization issues but has been seriously hampered by lack of staff and finance. The PSP
         provided the financing of a financial analyst and a lawyer over three years, as well as equipment
         and operating costs, including training, for three years. The PSP provided technical assistance for
         drafting the law and decrees required to establish an autonomous regulatory body, prepare an
         organizational study, notably on staff and financing requirement for the new body, and train
         selected staff in litigation solving.

    (ii) provide technical assistance for bringing ENERCA to the point of lease, including the call for
         expression of interest from international private operators/investors, selecting the most favorable
         offer and negotiating with this operator/investor, completing the electricity sector new regulatory
         framework, and carrying out other tasks essential to successful privatization (e.g., legal, financial



                                                     - 3 -

          and environmental audits, social plan, support to an interim management, and information and
          communication campaigns directed at stakeholders).

    (iii) bring SOCATEL, the State-owned telecommunications company, to the point of sale through a
          competitive and transparent bidding process. Activities included financing the cost of interim
          management of SOCATEL prior to its privatization, the preparation of a social plan for redundant
          employees, the revision of the regulatory framework, the review and reorganization of the spectrum
          control and transfer of spectrum control to the regulatory agency, and the preparation of a rural
          communications strategy to promote access of rural populations to telecommunication services.

    (iv) complete the privatization of PETROCA, the State-owned company in charge of petroleum
          distribution. Following a transfer of import, storage and distribution of petroleum products to new
          private oil companies, the PSP would assist the authorities in carrying out an environmental
          assessment and environmental management plan for the existing facilities; and setting up a
          petroleum sector management information system.

3.3.3. Component 2: Poverty reduction strategy. This component, with a total cost of US$2.03 million,
aimed at helping the Government prepare its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) through: (a) support to the
Poverty Reduction Strategy committee established by the Government to spearhead the various activities
leading to a PRS; (b) updating and expanding a poverty note, using ongoing work on poverty profile; (c) a
diagnostic study of public health to help to prepare a two to three-year plan of action, addressing the most
pressing problems identified during the diagnostic phase; (d) diagnostic studies of the education sector,
including cost and financing of education, management and governance of education, access and quality of
education, and higher education and technical training; (e) diagnostic study of rural transportation, notably
an inventory of the road network and the preparation of a position paper on key aspects of rural transport,
including planning and local management of rural roads, private/community roads, and promotion of
intermediate means of transport (IMT); (f) diagnostic studies of the cotton sector, including one on
short-term issues and measures, and a second one focusing on structural issues and measures; (g)
diagnostic study of the livestock sector, a potential strong source of growth, by identifying constraints to
the sector's development and mapping out options for the Government to choose from; (h) diagnostic study
of the forestry sector to make recommendation for a sustainable management of the forest resources, and
increased     sector's contribution to Government revenue; (i) diagnostic study on mining, including
conducting a dialogue among the relevant stakeholders on the main principles of policy and strategy that
could lead to a declaration endorsed by the Government, and subsequently translated in a new mining law;
and (j) IEC activities to support a participatory process, ensuring that the final PRS reflects and integrates
as much as possible the views and needs of stakeholders, and mobilizing support for the reform program
among politicians, civil servants and the population in general.

3.3.4. Component 3: Implementation of a Statistical development plan. This component, with a total
cost of US$0.35 million, was to assist CAR in starting the implementation of its statistical development
plan through: (a) preparation of TORs and cost estimates for priority tasks; (b) assessment of existing
statistical skills; (c) determination of training needed to carry out the priority tasks ; and (d) provision of
training.

3.3.5. Component 4: Strengthening the Ministry of mining. This component, with a total cost of
US$0.55 million was to follow up on the diagnostic study of the mining sector through: (a) drafting a new
mining law; (b) harmonizing CAR commercial and tax codes with other countries of the sub-region; (c)
training and institutional strengthening of key government departments responsible for the sector, notably
the General Directorate of Mining, and BECDOR, which is performing essential valuation, monitoring and


                                                      - 4 -

taxing functions; and (d) installation and setting up of properly functioning cadastre system.

3.3.6. Component 5: Support to the Technical Committee for Structural Adjustment (CTP-PAS).
This component, with a total cost of US$0.6 million, was to strengthen CTP-PAS in monitoring the
implementation of the adjustment and reform program, as well as coordinating all activities under the PSP.
The PSP provided the financing of the head of the CTP-PAS and four key staff in the agency over three
years; as well as equipment, including computers and a vehicle, and some operating costs, particularly
training; and financed the cost of a Senior Economic Advisor to the Prime Minister over two years.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Quality at Entry is rated as satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) the objectives are in line with
Government priorities; (ii) the scope of the project is adequate and takes into account lessons learned from
previous technical assistance projects; (iii) the emphasis on closing the knowledge gap in key sectors is also
appropriate.

3.5.2. The project objectives are in line with Government priorities. In a fragile post-conflict situation, the
Government was facing several critical issues and selected in the short-term to focus on fiscal consolidation
and privatization to sustain civil peace through regular payment of salaries and restoration of basic public
services in the utilities sector, relying mainly on two task forces: the CTP-PAS and the Privatization
Commission. At the same time, the Government did not lose sight that in the medium- to long-term, a
strategy was needed to start reversing the fall in incomes and deterioration in social indicators, thus the
preparation of a PRS.

3.5.3. The design of the PSP took into consideration lessons learned (Implementation Completion Report
No. 16799, June 26, 1997) from the latest IDA technical assistance project (Economic Management
Project No. CR.1971-CA) in the CAR : (i) first, keeping the objectives relatively simple: mainly ensuring
the timely implementation of the reform program under the FCC, and providing input for the preparation of
the PRS; and (ii) second, avoiding to overestimate the capacity of the public administration: by providing
interim, substitution technical assistance to task forces that operate outside the civil service. The PSP
provided quick and timely assistance to three established Government task forces (CTP-PAS, Privatization
Commission, and PRS Committee) as a public sector-wide capacity building service reform would have
required an unaffordable time preparation in the then post-conflict environment.

3.5.4.     Because the PSP and the FCC are so closely related, a discussion is warranted on the apparent
contradiction in the assessment of quality at entry of the two operations. In the ICR of the FCC (Report No
27447) two arguments were weighed. On one hand, the FCC was reviewed in QEA3 (1999) and received
an overall satisfactory rating for quality at entry. Among the factors that may have justified that rating was
the collaborative work with the IMF and the UN to bolster the restoration of stability in the CAR, and the
alignment with country priorities as stated in the 1998 Policy Framework Paper. On the other hand, a QAG
supervision panel in 2002 felt that given the country's political and social instability and weak
implementation capacity, the overall design of the operation at entry had been overly ambitious. The QAG
panel also noted the lack of a clearly defined macroeconomic framework and quantitative fiscal targets. The
QAG panel felt these initial handicaps had not been overcome during implementation and had hampered
credit performance. The ICR concurred with the QAG panel, and rated the quality at entry of the FCC as
unsatisfactory.

3.5.5.     This ICR rates the quality at entry of the PSP as satisfactory, because the project was



                                                      - 5 -

specifically prepared to provide timely assistance to the CAR authorities to address a major flaw in the
FCC design: weak implementation capacity. An adequate sequencing of the two operations would have
required a parallel processing or even the preparation of the PSP ahead of the FCC. However, the decision
to prepare the PSP was taken only when it became obvious that the reform program under the FCC was
beyond the capacity of the authorities. In addition, as a technical assistance project, other weaknesses in
FCC design such as the lack of a clearly defined macroeconomic framework were less relevant. Lastly, the
emphasis on closing the knowledge gap in key economic and social sectors for a meaningful policy
dialogue--a key feature of the PSP under the PRS component-- is one of the lessons drawn from FCC
implementation (see 8.1.3 of the ICR for the FCC).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. Project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. None of the development objectives has been achieved.
The reform program under the FCC--notably the lease of ENERCA and the establishment of a
multisectoral regulatory body--was not completed and as a result the floating tranche of the FCC (a major
benefit expected from PSP implementation) was not released and the FCC was closed in June 2003. There
was limited progress towards the preparation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy or the rebuilding of
statistical infrastructures. Planned reforms in the mining sector have not been undertaken. The mining code
was recently revised (in 2003) but this revision was found generally unsatisfactory by IDA staff.

4.1.2. Project implementation was hindered by delayed effectiveness, political instability and suspension
of disbursements following accumulation of payment arrears to IDA. The credit which was approved on
May 30, 2000, was not effective until April 6, 2001, as the GOCAR had not been able to meet several
effectiveness conditions: the establishment of satisfactory accounting and financial management systems for
the project; the appointment of qualified and experienced external auditors; the appointment of a qualified
and experienced financial director, and a procurement specialist. In addition, coup attempts and continuous
fighting between Government forces and rebels led to an unfavorable environment for PSP implementation.
IDA disbursements were suspended on August 15, 2001, and again in January 2002 after a short-lived
resumption of disbursements in December 2001. CAR has been in non-accrual status since June 2002.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Overall, the total period when the PSP was effective and disbursing does not exceed six months,
including periods of disruptive political events such as in May 2001. Actual implementation progress at
project closing, on June 24, 2004, was modest. About US$1.39 million--half of which during project
preparation--representing 16.4 percent of the total credit was disbursed (see Annex 2). The disbursed funds
were utilized for consultants' services, as well as salaries and        operating expenses of the project
implementation bodies, goods, equipment and vehicle purchases, while implementation of most major
project activities had not started.

Component 1: Privatization and Regulation Program

4.2.2. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The engagement of a lawyer and a financial expert, and
the financing of the cost of equipment had considerably strengthened the privatization commission and
enhanced the capacity of the Government to monitor the performance of public utilities, and had improved
the policy dialogue on public enterprises reform.        However, given the sociopolitical instability and
suspension of disbursements, concrete achievements were limited. ENERCA was not brought to the point
of lease and SOCATEL was not restructured and brought to the point of sale. The Government did not
establish an autonomous regulatory agency, and the framework for electricity sector and



                                                     - 6 -

telecommunications sector were not revised. Several attempts to hire a firm for the environmental audit of
the petroleum distribution facilities were not successful, probably because of the unstable political
situation, and the petroleum management information system was not set up because of lack of resources.
However, the Government did put in place interim management contracts (Lettre de Gestion) for ENERCA
and SOCATEL to protect their assets and increase their efficiency before their privatization, although the
monitoring of the management contracts proved not to be effective.

Component 2: Poverty Reduction Strategy

4.2.3. This component is rated unsatisfactory. Although there has been some progress, notably in the
preparation on an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), the institutional framework and the
participatory process, the original timetable for completing the full-fledged PRS could not be adhered to
because of financial and capacity constraints and the deterioration of security in the country following an
aborted coup d'état in 2001.

4.2.4. An I-PRSP was prepared in 2000, and was discussed by the Executive Directors of the Bank and
the IMF in January 2001 [IDA/SecM2001-0001]. The I-PRSP identified six major development challenges
for CAR: (i) a stable macroeconomic environment which should be pursued through strengthening revenue
collection and improving public expenditure management; (ii) good governance; (iii) adequate security and
stability; (iv) access to better education and health services; (v) curbing the prevalence of HIV/AIDS; and
(vi) extending social and productive infrastructures. The Executive Boards of the Bank and IMF concluded
that the report was candid, and while more progress was needed in broadening the participatory base and
the poverty diagnostic, it provided a sound basis for the delivery of IDA and IMF assistance. In addition,
the GOCAR established a PRS steering committee composed of government officials and representative of
the civil society as well as seven (7) thematic groups specializing in the areas considered to be high priority
(education, public health, governance, rural development, urban development and rehabilitation, public
finances and the economy, competitiveness and sources of growth); and local steering committees in all
communes throughout the country.

4.2.5. To involve the population in developing the PRS, the following actions were accomplished: (1) a
national conference on the economy and public finances was organized in September 2001 under the
chairmanship of the Head of State, bringing together 400 participants from across the country; (2)
awareness campaigns for the whole country, organized in February and March 2002, enabled local poverty
reduction steering committees to be established; (3) meetings with target groups including people from
various walks of life were organized in order to identify their priority needs for poverty reduction; (4) an
open-door day on the process of drawing up the PRS, for the attention of lawmakers, was held at the end of
February 2002; (5) presentation/debates broadcasts on radio and television with the national press, both
private and public, were organized in May 2002, with the aim of both explaining the process of drawing up
the PRS and increasing the people's awareness in order to gain their acceptance and involvement; and (6)
finally, radio and television press conferences on the issue of poverty were organized by the PRS steering
committee.

4.2.6. The suspension of PSP project disbursements resulted in a considerable slowdown in the
preparation of the full PRS. While the terms of reference of the diagnostic assessments were completed in
October 2001, the recruitment of consultants was held up by lack of resources. The deterioration in
security also caused delay in the preparation of the PRS.

4.2.7. In April 2002, the authorities sought and obtained from UNDP alternative financing for PRS
preparation, including for the implementation of two household surveys in rural and urban areas in 2003.


                                                      - 7 -

In February 2004, the Bank led a multidonor, multisectoral mission in the CAR which produced a set of
policy notes in key sectors relevant to the PRS. In that context, the work on PRS is ongoing and its
completion is expected after the elections.

Component 3: Implementing the Statistical Development Plan

4.2.8. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The parliament approved a new statistical law in July
2001, but implementation has been slow and overall quality and timeliness of statistics remains poor. The
training component under the PSP never started because of the recurrent suspensions of disbursements.

Component 4: Strengthening the Ministry of Mining

4.2.9. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The project provided for testing and computer equipment
to BECDOR, the Government valuation agency. A draft mining Law was also prepared but was not
presented to Parliament until December 2002.           The regime change in March 2003 led to further
modification of the mining law which was subsequently approved in February 2004. However, two Bank
missions in Bangui in January and February 2004 had assessed that the new Mining Law does not conform
to international standards. There was no progress in the installation of a functioning cadastre system.
There was also no progress in harmonizing CAR commercial and tax codes with other countries of the
sub-region. At the time of project closing, foreign investment in the mining sector remained negligible.
Overall the mining sector is still performing under potential, and suffers from corruption and lack of
transparency.

Component 5: Support to CTP-PAS

4.2.10. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The PSP provided financing for the salary costs of the
head of the CTP-PAS, four key staffs, and a senior economic advisor to the Prime Minister, as well as for
equipment and training. There is some evidence that the support to CTP-PAS was effective as CTP-PAS
assisted CAR in successfully implementing a six-month IMF Staff Monitored Program from October 2001
to March 2003; and in negotiating a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF in October 2002.
Unfortunately, with suspension of disbursements and worsening political instability, CTP-PAS lost most of
its capacity.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated negligible. In the first place, the Bank and the
authorities made the strategic choice to narrowly design the PSP as a purely technical assistance project
and, in contrast to a more complex institution-building project which--in the face of the dilapidated and
demoralized state of the public administration--would have been beyond the authorities' implementation
capacity, and would have required a longer time while reforms were needed urgently. Nevertheless, had the
project been implemented as envisaged, some institutional development would have taken place through the
privatization/leasing of utilities, the petroleum distribution system, and the autonomous regulation of the
activities of the privatized entities.




                                                      - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As described in the background section of this report, CAR faced a difficult political and security situation
in the years following Board approval of the PSP. The troubled political situation was compounded by
severe economic conditions with the collapse of the prices of CAR's main export products (coffee and
cotton). Notably, terms of trade deteriorated by a cumulative figure of 25 percent between 2000 and 2003,
which exacerbated the decline in economic activity and government revenue. The economic downturn and
subsequent dismal fiscal performance rendered CAR incapable of servicing its debt to international
creditors including IDA. The accumulation of payment arrears to IDA led to the suspension of
disbursements which halted activities implementation under the PSP.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government could have avoided the long delay in making the project effective. Almost a year passed
between project approval and the completion of the conditions for effectiveness. While the unstable
political and security situation may have played a role, a more proactive stance from CTP-PAS could have
shortened the period before effectiveness.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1. The estimated project cost at appraisal was $8.50 million, made up of $1.77 million of local costs
and US$6.73 million of foreign costs respectively. The Bank was to provide US$8 million of financing and
the remaining US$0.5 million by the Government.

5.4.2. Suspension of disbursement and security problems impacted negatively on project implementation.
The project disbursed approximately 16.4 percent of appraisal estimate (see Annex 2). The government
report (see Annex 8) also shows a disbursement rate of 16.8 percent of appraisal estimate. The slight
difference in level of implementation stems mainly from the sources of data; the data supplied by Bank
services are in foreign currency, while government data are in local currency. The project was closed in
June 2004 approximately two months before its original closing date of August 31, 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated highly unlikely. As stated previously, none of the
development objectives were completed satisfactorily. In June 2004, after months of halted activities due to
suspension of disbursements, and in view of limited prospects for arrears clearance, the Bank canceled the
undisbursed balance of the credit in the amount of SDR 5.06 million.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the insitutional level, there was no issue of transition to regular operations as the management of the
project was conferred on existing government institutions. Most of the project activities have been
discontinued, due to lack of internal or external funding, with the exception of the preparation of the PRSP,
which has made some progress, thanks to the efforts of the government unit that was set up during the
project implementation period, and most importantly, because of the UNDP financing.



                                                     - 9 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated satisfactory. Bank
staff worked closely and collaboratively with the Ministry of Economy and Finance during project
identification, preparation and appraisal to ensure the project objectives were in line with GOCAR's
policy priorities. The Bank's approach of combining a technical assistance project with an adjustment
program was appropriate in view of CAR's weak capacity. The Bank, working closely with the IMF and
other donors, supported reforms and capacity building in the hope of reversing the deterioration of social
and economic conditions in CAR that risked plunging the country into severe conflict. In designing the
project, the Bank took into consideration lessons from the implementation of previous technical assistance
projects.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1. The Bank's performance regarding supervision is rated satisfactory. Owing to suspension of
disbursement, regular supervision to assess progress in implementation did not take place. However, during
periodic visits to Bangui, the Bank team maintained an active dialogue with the Government and the
implementing agencies. Despite the suspension of disbursements and increasingly long period of inactivity,
the project was kept open based on three factors: (i) the possibility of resumption of disbursement as a
result of a promising dialogue between the Government and the external community, including the Bank
and IMF; (ii) Borrower's request that the project remains open; (iii) project team and management
agreement on the need to have an instrument to provide support to CAR once conditions permit (a view
which was endorsed by the ROC and OC during a virtual meeting on a draft Country Reengagement Note
in February 2003). In early 2004, the decision to close the project was taken when it became clear that the
restoration of stability would take time and that arrears clearance by the project's original closing date of
August 31, 2004, was unlikely.

7.2.2. Other donors experienced similar challeenges in implementing their programs during the period of
PSP implementation, as the security situation and Government bankruptcy impeded the effectiveness of
most aid development programs. In November 2002, the IMF decided to withdraw the presentation of a
PRGF-supported program, after rebels groups launched an attack in Bangui in late October 2002. The
PRGF was negotiated after the Government successfully implemented a Staff Monitored Program in
October 2001-June 2002. Japan, one of the largest bilateral donors, also withdrew from CAR in 2003 as a
result of the conflict which affected the countryside where they were active in road construction.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Nevertheless, although the situation in CAR has
historically been volatile, the Bank and the other partners did not have an exit strategy to guide them in the
event the situation deteriorates to the point where a support program would not be feasible.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance during the course of preparation is rated unsatisfactory. The government was
sluggish in meeting the effectiveness conditions set out by IDA. The inability of the government to meet
these conditions affected the date of effectiveness of the project. The credit was approved in May 2000 but
became effective on April 6, 2001. A supervision team that visited Bangui in October 2000 realized that
the credit which was signed in August 2000 was not ratified at the time of the team visit. It does not appear
that the turn-over of TTLs has played a role in the delay as continuity was assured by an international



                                                     - 10 -

resident economist. A new TTL took over in February 2001 while the authorities were still implementing
the roadmap for completing the effectiveness conditions established by the October 2000 mission.
However, while the effectiveness conditions were straightforward and limited to ensuring fiduciary
safeguards, more consideration should have been given by the Bank on the option of having these measures
as negotiations or Board conditions.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall government performance is rated unsatisfactory. The CTP-PAS and other Government task
forces could not carry out their duties as expected due to the political instability and the suspension of
disbursement. Additionally, a high turnover in the leadership of CTP-PAS adversely affected the
performance of the CTP-PAS: between 2000 and 2004, the CTP-PAS has had five different heads.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
See Section 7.5 above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.     The need for an exit strategy is stronger in volatile situations such as CAR in the early 2000. At
the time of preparation and approvals, a framework to deal with unstable conditions with possible scenarios
and a decision tree would have permitted an orderly, predictable withdrawal of non-relevant interventions
and of possible replacement with more appropriate instruments. The exit strategy could also have been
coordinated with other development partners. The recently introduced LICUS program now provides the
framework to transition out of regular programs in an unstable environment.

8.2.     In hindsight, recent best practice in the Bank indicates a move towards the substantive conditions
to be, in nature, more appropriate as conditions for negotiations before Board presentation, leaving only
effectiveness conditions those which are more procedural and designed to ensure rapid disbursement.

8.3.     A LICUS approach (developing capacity in public services delivery in close coordination with
other donors) is better suited to unstable conditions such as in the CAR. That approach worked well in the
summer of 2002 when UNDP, France and the Bank joined their resources to help the Government to
re-launch the preparation of the PRS, and again in February 2004 when the Bank mobilized about fifteen
external partners to work with the authorities in closing the knowledge gap and identifying key entry points
for reforms.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.     A full report, prepared by the Government of Central African Republic (GOCAR), is attached in
Annex 8. The report outlines the project development objectives and discusses the implementation status of
the five project components.

9.2.     Regarding the privatization and the regulatory reform programs, the report states that the
Government has tried to make progress in that area despite the negative impact of the socio-political events
which have shaken the country until 2003.          The report points to some achievements such as the
preparation of a Letter of Sectoral Development Policy for the electricity sector, the preparation of
performance management contracts (lettre de mission) and the creation in 2003 of a regulatory agency for
the telecommunications sector. There were also attempts to merge ENERCA and SODECA prior to their



                                                    - 11 -

privatization.

9.3.     With regard to the PRS, the report emphasizes that, an interim poverty reduction strategy (I-PRSP)
was prepared in November-December 2000 and submitted to the Bretton Woods Institution in January
2001. A Steering Committee was created in April 2001, followed in October 2001 by the creation of a
technical secretariat. Seven thematic groups and local PRSP steering committees were also formed. The
preparation of the PRSP was slowed down as a result of an attempted coup d'état in May 2001 and the
suspension of IDA disbursement. However, PRS preparation resumed in July 2003 with UNDP funding
and with the support of a Bank mission on participation issues, and a mission financed by France on
poverty monitoring. The report indicates that the diagnostic studies under the PSP were never undertaken
despite the design of terms of reference and the recruitment of some consultants.

9.4.     Concerning the strengthening of the Statistical Department, a National Committee of Statistics was
formed in 2002. Unfortunately, this committee could not function as expected. Also, because of lack of
funds, no efforts were made toward staff capacity building and data improvement.

9.5.     The Government received support from a private firm (International Mining) in preparing the
Mining Code. However, the latter could not be finalized until 2003. It was adopted in February 2004. The
report stresses recent developments such as the National Conference (Etats Généraux) on the mining sector
and some efforts to improve transparency in the issuance of permits.

9.6.     The report further explained that the CTP-PAS benefited greatly from PSP through capacity
building and acquisition of necessary equipment. It was in this regard that, in October 2001, the CTP-PAS
was able to negotiate and obtain an IMF Staff Monitored Program (SMP) which finally led to the
negotiation of PRGF program which should have been completed in October 2002 had it not been
unfavorable military and political events that derailed the process.

9.7.     The report tabulates the amount of the credit disbursed by component. The table depicted that 16.8
percent of the initial budget was disbursed, which demonstrates a low implementation rate. With the
suspension of IDA disbursement, government contribution to the project costs (6 percent) were used to pay
salaries and fees of experts and staff working under the various components. The report also itemizes debt
and arrears situation as of April 30 2004.

9.8.     Finally, the report concludes by stating that project development objectives were not achieved, and
lists major factors which impeded project implementation: (i) attempted coup d'état in May 2001; (ii)
suspension of IDA disbursement in August 2001; (iii) political and military tensions in November 2001;
(iv) suspension of IDA disbursement which is still in effect as of December, 2004; (v) failed coup d'état in
October 2002; and (vi) frequent changes in the management of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

There was no ICR mission because of the low project implementation rate and the straightforward
unsatisfactory outcomes of the project. Instead, the decision was taken to undertake a desk review.




                                                     - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Development Objective       Outcome/Impact Indicators                      Output Indicators                       Status
Implement the Reform       Implementation of the reform         (i)    The revised electricity sector          Not done.
Program under the FCC,     program under FCC leads to                  code is submitted to Parliament
particularly the           disbursement of second and                  by March 2001.

Privatization Program.     flotating tranches. Reduce the       (ii)   The revised regulatory framework
                           losses of the parapublic sector by          for telecommunications is submitted
                           expanding privatization and                 to Parliament by June 2001.
                           liberalization.                      (iii) The Act creating the autonomous
                                                                       regulatory body for utilities sector is
                                                                       submitted to Parliament by June
                                                                       2001.
                                                                (iv) ENERCA to the point of lease by
                                                                       June 2001
                                                                (v)    SOCATEL is at the point of sale by
                                                                       December 2002.
Articulate a Poverty       A government strategy to reduce       (vi) PRSP completed by end June 2001,          Partially done.
Reduction Strategy.        poverty is in place.                        integrating various diagnostic           I-PRSP
                                                                       studies on social sectors and            finalized in
                                                                       productive sectors (completed by         January 2001.
                                                                       end March 2001).                         Some
                                                                 (vii) Main lessons from consultations          consultations
                                                                       with stakeholders are available in       did take place.
                                                                       April-May 2001.
Rebuilding of Statistical  Better quality and more timely        (viii)Training programs in place by June       Not done.
Infrastructure.            statistics to enhance the quality of        2001.
                           policy in all areas.
Strengthening the          Improve the development prospects    (ix) Revised mining code submitted to           Partially done.
Management of the          of the mining sector. Less                  Parliament by June 2001.                 An
Mining Sector.             smuggling (more revenue) and                                                         unsatisfactory
                           increased foreign investment.                                                        mining code
                                                                                                                was submitted
                                                                                                                to the
                                                                                                                National
                                                                                                                Transition
                                                                                                                Council in
                                                                                                                February
                                                                                                                2004.
Strengthening CTP-PAS,     Enhanced capacity to implement        (x) Reports and audits are on time and         Partially done.
the technical committee    reforms and the project.                    of adequate quality
in charge of the reform                                          (xi) Full compliance with procurement

program.                                                               standards.




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Category (US$ million equivalent)  /1




                                                     Actual/Latest           Actual/Latest
      Category           Appraisal Estimate            Estimate /2             Estimates
  Project Cost by
      Category                US$ million             US$ million          % of Appraisal
Goods/ Equipment &                0.20                   0.16                    80.0
vehicle
Consultants' Services             6.93                   0.75                    10.8
Operating costs                   0.27                   0.07                    25.9
PPF Refund                        0.35                   0.40                    114.3
Unallocated                       0.75                   0.01                     1.9
Total Project Costs               8.50                   1.39                    16.4
Total                             8.50                   1.39                    16.4

_________________________________
1/ Figures for actual/Latest costs by component were not available.
2/ Actual and/Latest expenditures were originally in SDR and were converted into US$ using 8/11/04
   exchange rate of 1.47007 provided by LOAG1.




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No thorough cost benefits analysis was made at appraisal. But the PAD proposed a more cost
effective analysis which sought to recruit consultants than using the regular civil service.
According to the PAD, the privatization and regulatory program, as well as the preparation of
diagnostic studies on various sectors could be implemented through the civil service. But because
civil servants are paid poorly and late, there would be unacceptable uncertainty regarding the
quality and timeliness of the output. The use of local consultants, who are less expensive than
international consultants was proposed.




                                               - 15 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 2000                22     1 Sr. Economist
                                             1 Sr. Financial Analyst
                                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                             (Consultant)
                                             1 Sr. Agricultural Economist
                                             1 Telecommunications Specialist
                                             1 Operations Adviser
                                             2 Consultants
                                             1 Sr. Population Specialist
                                             1 Principal Mining Specialist
                                             1 Private Sector Development
                                             Specialist
                                             2 Disbursement Officers
                                             1 Sr. Human Resources Specialist
                                             2 Lead Specialists
                                             1 Transport Specialist
                                             1 Knowledge Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Livestock Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Energy Economist
                                             2 Lawyers

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 2000                5    1 Sr. Economist
                                             1 Sr. Financial Analyst
                                             1 Sr. Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Lawyer
                                             1 Disbursement Officer

 Supervision
              Oct. 2000                 2    1 Sr. Economist                      U               S
                                             1 Sr. Procurement Specialist
              June 2001                 2    1 Country Economist                  S               S
                                             1 Residential Economist
              Dec 2001                  1    1 Country Economist                  S               S
              June 2002                 1    1 Country Economist                  U               U
              Dec 2002                  1    1 Country Economist
              June 2003                 1    1 Country Economist
              Nov 2003                  1    1 Country Economist
              May 2004                  1    1 Country Economist
              June 2004                 1    1 Country Economist




                                              - 16 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           36.44                      156,637.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                          76.07                      372,349.3
  Total                              124.51                       536,486.9




                                            - 17 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.  Minutes of PCD Review Meeting, January 6, 1999.

2.  Minutes of Decision Meeting on draft PAD, February 2000.

3.  Back-to-office report of appraisal mission , March 2000.

4.  Procès Verbal des Négotiations, April 2000.

5.  Project Appraisal documents for a Policy Support project, May 2. 2000.

6.  Statement of Mission Objectives (March 18-31, 2001) for Fiscal Consolidation Credit
    and Policy Support Project for CAR.

7.  BTOR and Aide-Memoire: Energy Sector Mission to CAR, February 23, 2002.

8.  BTOR and Aide Memoire: CAR Policy Support Project, Supervision Mission
    Telecom Component, April 14-19, 2002.

9.  BTOR: Forest Sector Support Mission to CAR re. Policy Support Project, April
    29-May 6, 2002.

10. SMO (May 13-June 3, 2001) for FCC, PSP, Post Conflict Activities and Poverty
    Reduction Strategy Paper for CAR.

11. BTOR, Central African Republic-SMP Review and PRGF Mission, CF-Policy
    Support Project, May 29-June 18, 2002.

12. CAR: IMF-2004 Article IV Consultation, Staff Report.

13. Policy Support Project: Project Preparation Plan (PIP), Concept Review Meeting.

14. Projet d'Appui à la Politique Economique- Procès-Verbal des Négociations.

15. The Economist Intelligence Unit Limited 2004: Central Africa Republic.

16. Project Status Reports (all issued).

17. CAR Poverty Note (Report Number 18134-CA).




                                                  - 20 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution



MINISTERE DU PLAN, DE L'ECONOMIE, DES           REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
    FINANCES, DU BUDGET, ET DE LA                UNITE ­ DIGNITE ­ TRAVAIL
    COOPERATION INTERNATIONALE                         -------------------
            --------------------
         C  A   B    I   N     E T
            --------------------
   COMITE TECHNIQUE PERMANENT
      DU SUIVI DES PROGRAMMES
      D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL
            --------------------




                   RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
         DU PROJET D'APPUI A LA POLITIQUE
                           ECONOMIQUE (PAPE)




                                         - 21 -

                                                Novembre 2004

                                 SOMMAIRE




INTRODUCTION                                                  3




I - OBJECTIFS DU PROJET                                       3




II ­ EXECUTION DU PROJET                                      4




III ­ Situation comptable et financière                       8




IV ­ PRINCIPALES CONTRAINTES DU PROJET                        9




V- CONCLUSION                                                 9




                                      - 22 -

INTRODUCTION

Par Accord n°3360/CA du 30 mai 2000, l'Association Internationale de Développement (IDA) a
consenti à la République Centrafricaine un crédit de développement pour un montant total de DTS
6.000.000, soit $ US 8.495, l'équivalent de 5.115.360.000 FCFA Avec 1 DTS = 852,56 FCFA.. Il est
important de rappeler que ce crédit a été obtenu après des négociations entamées depuis 1999.

Selon les termes de ce crédit, les activités du projet sont regroupées en cinq (5) composantes qui
sont :

§        La Commission de Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques (CPEP) ;
§        Le Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté (CSLP) ;
§        La Division des Statistiques et des Etudes Economiques (DSEE) ;
§        Le Ministère des Mines ;
§        Et le Comité Technique Permanent du Suivi des Programmes d'Ajustement Structurel
(CTP/PAS).

I - OBJECTIFS DU PROJET

Les objectifs assignés au projet étaient d'aider le Gouvernement Centrafricain à :
§        Exécuter le programme de privatisation et de régulation et renforcer la capacité de la
commission de privatisation pour :
o        Procéder à l'affermage de l'ENERCA et à la privatisation de SOCATEL ;
o        Instaurer des politiques et des cadres réglementaires appropriés dans les secteurs de
l'électricité et des télécommunications ;
o        Entreprendre, suite à la privatisation de PETROCA, une étude d'impact environnemental
et mettre en place un système de gestion de l'information ;
o        Préparer des plans sociaux pour le personnel redondant de SOCATEL, ENERCA et
PETROCA ;
o        Etablir une agence autonome de régulation multi-sectorielle ;
o        Effectuer des études sur le plan technique et organisationnel ;
o        Préparer l'organisation de campagnes d'information et de communication visant toutes les
parties prenantes dans le processus de privatisation et de libéralisation.

§        Formuler et mettre en oeuvre la stratégie de la lutte contre la pauvreté par :
o        La mise à jour des données et connaissances sur les secteurs sociaux et productifs en
entreprenant des études sur le profil de la pauvreté et des études diagnostic sur l'éducation, la
santé, le coton, l'élevage, les transports en zone rurale, les mines et l'exploitation de la forêt ;
o        Une campagne IEC afin de soutenir le processus de participation à une stratégie de lutte
contre la pauvreté au moyen des services de conseil technique et l'organisation de séminaires et
consultations avec les bénéficiaires et les communautés impliquées.

§        Engager un programme de renforcement des capacités en matière de Statistiques par :
o        La fourniture de services d'assistance technique pour évaluer les qualifications existantes


                                                 - 23 -

en matière d'études statistiques, ou le manque de qualifications en cette matière, et estimer les
besoins en formation pour améliorer le développement des études spécifiques ;
o       Et l'organisation de séminaires et formations.

§       Renforcer les capacités du Ministère des Mines en particulier de la Direction Générale des
Mines et du BECDOR par :
o       La fourniture de services d'assistance technique pour la mise à jour du code minier et
l'amélioration du système d'enregistrement des permis miniers ;
o       L'acquisition d'équipement et de matériel ;
o       Et l'organisation des formations.

§       Et Renforcer les capacités du Comité Technique Permanent de Suivi des Programmes
d'Ajustement Structurel (CTP/PAS) permettant de :
o       Coordonner l'exécution du Projet au moyen de
§       L'assistance technique ;
§       L'organisation de séminaires et de formations
§       L'acquisition d'équipements informatiques, de matériel de bureau et d'un véhicule.

II ­ EXECUTION DU PROJET

Les activités du P.A.P.E ont effectivement démarré le 1er Avril 2001, mais malheureusement le
financement octroyé a été suspendu par deux fois de suite (en Août 2001 avant d'être repris en
Décembre 2001 pour être définitivement suspendu en Janvier 2002), à la suite des arriérés
accumulés vis-à-vis de la Banque ainsi que des événements militaro-politiques de mai et octobre
2001. Le Projet a donc continué à fonctionner sur financement du budget de l'Etat (contrepartie
dudit projet).

2.1 ­ Situation administrative
Le PAPE comptait initialement 13 experts et 7 agents, se répartissant de la manière suivante :
-       Primature : Conseiller du Premier Ministre ;
-       Coordination du PAPE : le Coordonnateur, le Conseiller en passation de marché, la
DAF et 5 agents ;
-       CTP-PAS : 1 Secrétaire Permanent et 3 Experts
-       CPEP : 2 Experts
-       CSLP : 1 Coordonnateur, 2 Experts et 2 agents
Depuis le départ du Conseiller du Premier Ministre et du Conseiller en passation des marchés,
l'effectif des Experts pris en charge par le Projet a été réduit à 11.

Il convient de faire remarquer que le Projet a connu six (6) changements au niveau de son organe
de gestion en trois ans.

-       Le premier changement était intervenu au niveau du Coordonnateur à fin 2002 ;
-       Le second, au niveau de la Direction Administrative et Financière en mars 2002 ;
-       Le troisième était le départ du Conseiller Spécial en Passation de Marchés qui était parti
en vacances sans donner suite jusqu'à la clôture du Projet ;


                                                 - 24 -

-       Le quatrième changement a concerné l'intérim du Coordonnateur assuré par le Secrétaire
Permanent en mai 2003 ;
-       Le cinquième changement a été le remplacement du Coordonnateur intérimaire en août
2003 ;
-       Le sixième a été le remplacement du Coordonnateur en mars 2004.

Dans l'objectif de la clôture des activités du projet, le Ministre d'Etat chargé du Plan, de
l'Economie, des Finances, du Budget et de la Coopération Internationale a mis fin aux contrats
des Experts et Agents relevant du PAPE le 30 avril 2004.

2.2 ­ Activités réalisées par composante

a ­ Commission de Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques
Depuis janvier 1996, une liste d'entreprises et offices publics Quinze (15) entreprises dans différents
secteurs d'activités ont été retenues dans le programme de privatisation. éligibles à la privatisation a
été arrêtée par la loi N° 96.007 du 13 janvier 1996. Le programme de privatisation a reposé
essentiellement sur les entreprises du 1er périmètre (PETROCA, ENERCA, SODECA et
SOCATEL) et celles du 2nd périmètre (SOCATRAF, SOGESCA, CENTRAPALM, BARC,
SOFITEL, ICA, SEGA et ONI).

En dépit des événements qui ont secoué le pays jusqu'en 2003, le Gouvernement s'est efforcé tant
bien que mal à poursuivre le programme de privatisation des entreprises inscrites dans le PAPE
dont la mise en oeuvre est la suivante :

PETROCA
- Structure des Prix des Hydrocarbures

En vertu de l'annexe 2 de l'Accord Cadre, il avait été prévu la signature du décret fixant la
méthodologie de la structure des prix des produits pétroliers contrôlés (Super, Gasoil, Pétrole et
Fuel). Au démarrage des activités, le Décret N° 00.311 avait été signé puis modifié par le Décret
N° 02.223 du 23 août 2002 et remodifié le 08 décembre 2003. Cela a permis de transférer 5 FCFA
par litre pour le financement de stockage au profit de SOGAL par une augmentation des droits de
passage jusqu'à l'obtention du niveau de stockage mensuel de 1999 situé à 8 000 m3.

Les frais de transport fluvial « SOCATRAF » ont été augmentés de 12,5 F CFA par litre sur trois
produits (super, gasoil et pétrole) pou une période de six (6) mois, afin de soutenir financièrement
l'équilibre de la société à fin décembre 2003.

- Lot B de Trans-oil

Compte tenu de la carence constatée de la société TRANS OIL Centrafrique, les stations services
du Lot B feront l'objet d'appel d'offre international dès la mise en liquidation de celle-ci. Par
souci d'approvisionner en hydrocarbures les secteurs de TRANS OIL, le Ministre des Mines a
réquisitionné les stations de ce Lot pour les confier en gérance libre à des particuliers.




                                                 - 25 -

ENERCA - SODECA
Par arrêté n° 012.02 du 20 février 2002, portant adoption du principe de privatisation groupée des
secteurs de l'eau et de l'électricité en RCA et par arrêté n° 014.02 du 25 mars 2002, portant
fusion de ENERCA et SODECA, le Gouvernement a exprimé sa volonté à poursuivre le
processus de privatisation de ces deux sociétés d'Etat. Mais leur situation financière et l'état de
leurs équipements ne pouvaient attirer un investisseur.

En mars 2002, une réunion relative aux secteurs Eau et Electricité s'est tenue à Paris entre la
République centrafricaine, la Banque Mondiale et l'AFD en présence des conseils des cabinets
Ernst & Young et ICEA dans le but de valider les principales étapes et chronogramme du
processus de privatisation groupée.

Plusieurs actions ont été entamées dans le processus de privatisation couplée de ces sociétés, il
s'agit de :

1.      l'élaboration de la Lettre de Politique sectorielle de l'Energie ;
2.      la mise en place d'un programme de lutte contre la fraude ;
3.      l'élaboration des Lettres de Mission ;
4.      la mise en place d'une Assistance intermédiaire pour l'électricité ;
5.      l'étude sur le plafonnement de la consommation d'eau et d'électricité du personnel ;
6.      l'élaboration des TDR d'étude de fusion des secteurs eau et électricité.

Cependant, les différents événements que le pays a connus ont influencé négativement sur ce
processus.

Par ailleurs, le PNUD a financé l'étude de prise en compte de l'électrification rurale dans le projet
de Code d'électricité élaboré par le Ministère des Mines, de l'Energie et de l'Hydraulique,
transmis à la Banque Mondiale et au Cabinet Ernst & Young pour observations.

SOCATEL
- Agence de Régulation des Télécommunications (ART)
Le Gouvernement a mis en place l'A.R.T en 2003, avec la nomination d'un Directeur Général
provisoire. Les Administrateurs ont été coptés.

- Opérateurs
Le marché de la téléphonie cellulaire comprend trois opérateurs dont deux privés.

b ­ Comité d'Elaboration de la Stratégie de Réduction de la Pauvreté
Le CSLP intérimaire a été préparé en Novembre-Décembre 2000 et soumis à l'appréciation des
IBW en Janvier 2001. Puis, en en Avril 2001, il a été créé le Comité de Pilotage, suivi de la mise
en place du Secrétariat Technique comme Organe d'Appui au Comité de Pilotage en Octobre
2001, des Groupes Thématiques (au nombre de sept) et des Comités Locaux et Régionaux de
Pilotage de lutte contre la pauvreté en février ­ mars 2002.

Le processus a été ralenti suite aux conséquences de la tentative du coup d'Etat du 28 mai 2001 et



                                                 - 26 -

à la suspension du crédit de la Banque Mondiale, principale source de financement identifiée pour
la conduite du Processus.

Cependant, il a été relancé en juillet 2003, avec l'appui technique et financier du PNUD. Le CSLP
a également bénéficié de la Mission de M. Abdou Salam DRABO, Spécialiste en participation de
la Banque Mondiale en Août 2002 à l'issue de laquelle un Plan d'Action de la participation a été
proposé, et la Mission AFRISTAT/DIAL sur les conditions de mise en place d'un observatoire
appuyé par la Coopération française en Mars 2002.
A ce jour, le processus se poursuit et a en son actif : i) le diagnostic aboutissant au profil de
pauvreté en milieu rural et urbain, ii) les politiques et stratégies sectorielles et iii) la participation.

Il convient de rappeler que les études diagnostic prévues dans le cadre du PAPE n'ont pas été
réalisées, malgré l'élaboration des termes de référence et le recrutement de quelques consultants.

c ­ Division des Statistiques
Au niveau de la Division des Statistiques, il a été mis en place en 2002 le Comité National de
Statistique qui n'a malheureusement pas véritablement fonctionné. Quant au renforcement des
capacités du personnel et à la révision des base de données, aucun effort n'a été fait, faute de
financement. Sinon, cette Division, en collaboration avec AFRISTAT travaille énormément tant
pour le renforcement des capacités que pour la révision des bases de données. Un projet financé
par la BAD est en cours de finalisation.

d ­ Ministère des Mines
Considéré comme un des secteurs porteurs de l'économie, le secteur minier a beaucoup retenu
l'attention des autorités. C'est ainsi qu'en 2000, un contrat a été signé entre le Bureau d'Etudes
INTERNATIONAL MINING et le Gouvernement pour la mise en place d'un code minier d'un
montant de 115.778.000 FCFA. Le PAPE a payé le Consultant à hauteur de 62.710.500 FCFA en
2001. Mais malheureusement, ce code n'a été finalisé qu'en 2003 et adopté en février 2004.

Par ailleurs, les autres mesures prises par le Gouvernement dans le secteur minier sont :
-        La dénonciation du contrat avec Independent Diamond Valuators (IDV) ;
-        La mise en place du Secrétariat Permanent du Processus de Kimberley ;
-        La suspension de la délivrance des autorisations exceptionnelles d'exportation du diamant ;
-        L'assainissement des permis attribués.

Entre temps, l'application des recommandations des Etats Généraux du secteur minier
centrafricain nécessitant des moyens financiers considérables pour leur mise en oeuvre, le
Gouvernement s'attèle à la recherche des financements pour leur application effective.

e ­ CTP-PAS
Depuis la mise en place du PAPE, le CTP-PAS a bénéficié de beaucoup d'appui, tant dans le
domaine du renforcement des capacités que dans celui des équipements nécessaires à
l'accomplissement de ses tâches. C'est ainsi qu'au mois d'octobre 2001, il a pu négocier et obtenir
un programme de référence, allant jusqu'en mars 2002. La bonne exécution de ce programme a
conduit à la négociation d'un programme FRPC qui devrait être conclu en octobre 2002, mais



                                                  - 27 -

 malheureusement les événements politico-militaires ont mis à mal ce processus. Dans la même
 optique, le CTP-PAS a appuyé le Gouvernement dans la négociation et la conclusion d'un
 programme post-conflit en juillet 2004.




 2.3 ­ Crédits consommés par composantes

 (En milliers de FCFA)
                                                                          Total         Total     Taux de
 Composantes     CPEP       CSLP      Statistique  Mines     CTP-PAS    réalisation    prévision   réal.
Total Crédits
consommés       241 093     123 629        0        62 711    431 678     859 111      5 115 360  16,8%


 Il ressort globalement de ce tableau que seulement 16,8% du budget initialement prévu est
 consommé. Ce qui laisse apparaître un faible taux d'exécution.

 Ces consommations ont concerné, entre autres :

 -       pour le CPEP :
 o       l'appui à la privatisation, les honoraires, les véhicules-équipements et la formation
 (109.870.140 FCFA) ;
 o       l'affermage de l'ENERCA (67.606.000 FCFA) ;
 o       l'étude sur l'impact économique des importations du sucre ou régulation du cadre
 politique du secteur public (63.617.120 FCFA).

 -       pour le CSLP :
 o       l'appui au CSLP, les honoraires, les véhicules-équipements (110.933.390 FCFA) ;
 o       la campagne IEC (9.330.300 FCFA).

 -       pour les Mines :
 o        l'étude sur la stratégie minière (62.710.500 FCFA).

 -       pour le CTP-PAS :
 o        l'exploitation, les honoraires, les véhicules-équipements, la formation (212.670.000
 FCFA) ;
 o       le Conseiller Economique du Premier Ministre (103.530.860 FCFA) ;
 o       le Conseiller en Passation d Marchés (87.432.490 FCFA).

 III ­ Situation comptable et financière

 Le PAPE était financé par l'IDA à hauteur de 94% et l'Etat centrafricain (6%). Le fonds de
 contrepartie devait servir en principe à financer les charges d'exploitation. Mais compte tenu de la



                                                  - 28 -

suspension des décaissements par la Banque, cette contrepartie a été utilisée pour régler les
honoraires et salaires des Experts et Agents oeuvrant dans les différentes composantes. Depuis
2001, le fonds de contrepartie décaissé par l'Etat s'élève à 232.146.434 FCFA. Les demandes de
paiements directs (DPD) établies et envoyées à la Banque après la suspension, mais non encore
honorées, s'élèvent à 58.117.810 FCFA.

Au 30 avril 2004, la situation des dettes et arriérés se présente comme suit :
- Découverts bancaires :                         28.798.872
- Dettes fournisseurs :                          97.850.301
- Arriérés Honoraires (Experts et Agents):       36.149.287
                        Soit un total de 162.798.460 FCFA.

Par ailleurs, il convient de rappeler qu'aucun budget par composante n'a été mis en place depuis le
début du projet. Le projet P.A.P.E, par l'intermédiaire de son coordonnateur a autorisé une
formation de la Direction Administrative et Financière par le Cabinet CDM consultant sur
l'utilisation du logiciel Perfecto qui a été installé mais non fonctionnel, pour défaut de paiement.

Concernant la gestion budgétaire du P.A.P.E, nous pouvons noter que les missions non
programmées s'effectuaient par envoie de devis des coûts des missions afin que la coordination
donne son accord pour financement. Il en était de même pour les différents séminaires à organiser
dans le cadre du CSLP.

IV ­ PRINCIPALES CONTRAINTES DU PROJET

Les principales contraintes au Projet PAPE sont :

-        le coup d'Etat manqué du 28 mai 2001 ;
-        la première suspension par la Banque en août 2001 ;
-        les événements politico-militaires de novembre 2001 ;
-        la suspension définitive par la Banque en janvier 2002 ;
-        le coup d'Etat manqué du 25 octobre 2002 ;
-        le changement intervenu le 15 mars 2003, avec toutes ses conséquences ;
-        les changements à répétition du Coordonnateur du Projet.

V- CONCLUSION

En somme, les objectifs assignés au PAPE n'ont pas été atteints du fait de la suspension du
financement de la Banque qui se justifie par l'accumulation des arriérés de l'Etat vis-à-vis de cette
institution. On peut relever également l'instabilité observée au niveau du staff dirigeant du Projet
comme un des facteurs pouvant expliquer le problème réel de gestion.

Par ailleurs, il convient de souligner que ce présent rapport n'a pas été fait dans de très bonne
condition. C'est pourquoi certains éléments nécessaires qui auraient pu se trouver dans ce
document n'y sont pas.




                                                   - 29 -

- 30 -

