Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3360 CA
Development Credit Agreement
(Policy Support Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  August 10,  2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3360 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  August 10, 2000, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received two letters of sector policies 
from the Borrower dated November 23, 1999 and April 28, 2000, 
respectively, describing therein programs of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to: (a) achieve fiscal consolidation, privatization of 
state companies, regulatory reforms; (b) prepare a poverty reduction 
strategy; and (c) develop statistical infrastructure, all in order to 
strengthen the Borrower’s economy (the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Becdor” means the Borrower’s office for evaluation and 
control of diamonds and gold established pursuant to Decree No. 93.437 
dated December 13, 1993;
(b)
“bring to the point of lease” requires the Borrower to have 
taken the following steps: (i) invited firms to prequalify; (ii) carried 
out the prequalification exercise and announced the prequalified bidders 
(if any); (iii) invited the prequalified bidders to submit financial 
proposals; (iv) announced in the press the results of financial proposals 
submitted by bidders; (v) selected the best offers (if any); and (vi) 
invited the successful bidder(s) (if any) to enter into good faith 
negotiations;
(c)
“bring to the point of sale” requires the Borrower to have 
taken the following steps: (i) prepared and distributed investment 
memoranda for the relevant state companies; (ii) solicited offers 
directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers, under 
terms and conditions agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association; (iii) evaluated the offers and selected the bidder(s) (if 
any); and (iv) invited the successful bidder(s) (if any) to enter into 
good faith negotiations;
(d)
“Comité de Pilotage-CSLP” means Comité de Pilotage du 
processus d’élaboration du cadre stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté, 
a monitoring committee within the Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework 
established by the Borrower’s Prime Minister under Arrêté No. 009 dated 
April 3, 2000;
(e)
“CTP-PAS” or “Comité Technique Permanent du Suivi des 
Programmes d'Ajustement Structurel” means the permanent technical 
committee for structural adjustment programs established by the Borrower 
under Decree No. 96.099, dated April 1, 1996;
(f)
“Direction Générale des Mines” means a directorate within 
the Ministry in charge of Mining (Ministry of Energy, Mining and Water);
(g)
“Division de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques” means 
the division of statistic and economic studies within the Ministry of 
Economy, Planning and International Cooperation;
(h)
“ENERCA” means “Energie Centrafricaine”, the state utility 
company owned by the Borrower, established pursuant to the Ordonnance No 
67/63 dated October 25, 1967, and granted a monopoly for the production, 
import, transmission and distribution of electricity in the territory of 
the Borrower;
Page  3
(i)
“FCFA” and “CFA Franc” means Franc de la Coopération 
Financière en Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(j)
“Fiscal Year” means the period which begins on January 1 and 
ends on December 31 each year;
(k)
“IEC” means information, education and communication 
campaigns to be carried out under the Project, as specified under Part 
B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Inter-ministerial Committee” means the inter-ministerial 
committee for macro-economic and structural reforms established by the 
Borrower under Decree No. 95.183 dated June 23, 1995 for purposes of 
evaluating the Borrower’s economic and financial policies and 
following-up the implementation of macro-economic and structural reforms;
(m)
“PETROCA” means “Centrafricaine des Pétroles”, the state 
petroleum company established pursuant to the signing of a Protocole 
d’Accord between the Borrower and Total Afrique on July 30, 1980, and 
granted a monopoly for the import and distribution of petroleum in the 
territory of the Borrower;
(n)
“Poverty Reduction Strategy” means a medium term plan of 
action based on diagnostic studies and a participatory process involving 
stakeholders to: (i) promote the resumption/acceleration of growth in 
sectors where growth is likely to benefit the poorest; and (ii) improve 
social indicators, notably education and health indicators;
(o)
“Privatization Commission” means the Borrower’s Commission 
in charge of the Borrower's privatization program and established by Law 
No. 95.007 dated August 15, 1995;
(p)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by 
the CTP-PAS for the implementation of the Project and setting forth, 
inter alia, procurement rules and administrative, accounting and 
financial procedures, to be used for the purpose of implementing the 
Project, as may be amended from time to time with the prior consent of 
the Association, such term to include any schedules thereto;
(q)
“Project Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the 
comprehensive plan for the implementation of the Project referred to in 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing, inter alia, work 
plans, training plans, performance indicators, training programs, as they 
may be amended from time to time with the prior consent of the 
Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP (including 
the Project Implementation Manual);
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(s)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance (PPF No. Q153-0 CAR) granted by the Association to the Borrower 
pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on 
April 6, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 14, 1999;
(t)
“Project Year” means each twelve-month period during Project 
implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date;
(u)
“SOCATEL” means “Société Centrafricaine de 
Télécommunications”, the Borrower’s state telecommunication company, 
established pursuant to Law No. 96.002 dated January 10, 1996; and
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Page  5
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 
1, 2010 and ending February 1, 2040. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on February 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not 
yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
Page  6
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project's objectives and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in CFA 
Francs in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such 
account, in an amount equivalent to FCFA 5,000,000 to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by October 31 and April 30 
in each year, until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall 
be required to replenish in a timely manner, the Project Account to equal 
the amount of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
Page  7
auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and 
accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than 18 months after the Effectiveness Date, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
Page  8
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial 
management system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has 
deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has appointed the external auditors referred to 
in Section 4.01 (b) to this Agreement, with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, to be employed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower has appointed a Financial Director and a 
Procurement Specialist/Project Implementation Adviser, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association to be 
employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  9
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance, Planning
   and International Cooperation
P.O. Box 912
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINECA
5280 RC
(236) 61 96 
89
Central African Republic
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Henri Koba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods/Equipment
    150,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and
55% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
   4,800,000
100%
training, studies
and audits
(3)
Operating Costs
     200,000
90%
(4)
Refunding of
     250,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
      600,000
TOTAL
    6,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower ; provided, however, that, if the currency of 
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office furniture 
and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and 
insurance costs, rental expenses, office maintenance costs, travel costs 
for Project staff and salaries of support staff for the Project, 
excluding management staff and salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement . 
Page  11
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) 
under contracts for goods, furniture and vehicles costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each and under 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (c) operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) 
implementing the Privatization and Regulation Program and building 
capacity in the Privatization Commission; (ii) preparing its Poverty 
Reduction Strategy; (iii) building capacity in the CTP-PAS; (iv) carrying 
out a program to build capacity in statistic studies; and (v) building 
capacity in the Ministry in charge of Mining.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Privatization and Regulation Program and Privatization 
Commission Capacity Building 
Implementing, through the Privatization Commission, the 
privatization and the regulation of the Borrower’s public sector by: (a) 
bringing ENERCA to the point of lease and SOCATEL to the point of sale; 
(b) designing of appropriate policy and regulatory frameworks in the 
electricity and telecommunication sectors; (c) following-up PETROCA’s 
privatization, carrying out an environmental impact study and 
implementing an information management system; (d)  preparation of 
retrenchment plans for redundant staff of SOCATEL, ENERCA and PETROCA; 
(e) establishment of an autonomous multisector regulatory body; (f) 
carrying out technical and organizational studies; (g) preparing 
information and communication campaigns directed at all stakeholders in 
the privatization and liberalization processes; all through: (i) the 
provision of technical advisory services; (ii) the organization of 
seminars for the staff of the Privatization Commission and of training 
programs for the staff of the multisector regulatory body; and (iii) the 
purchase of computer equipment, office equipment and one vehicle for the 
Privatization Commission.
Part B:
Poverty Reduction Strategy
1.
Updating knowledge and data on social and productive sectors, 
through the Comité de Pilotage-CSLP,  by carrying out poverty assessments 
and diagnostic studies on education, heath (including HIV/AIDS), cotton, 
livestock, rural transportation, mining and forestry; all through : (i) 
the provision of technical advisory services; and (ii) the purchase of 
computer equipment, office equipment and one vehicle.
2.
Carrying out an IEC campaign, through the Comité de Pilotage-CSLP, 
in support of the participatory process related to developing the poverty 
reduction strategy through: (i) the provision of technical advisory 
services; and (ii) the organization of seminars and consultations with 
stakeholders. 
Page  12
Part C:
Building Capacity in CTP-PAS 
Building capacity in CTP-PAS in order to enable it to carry out the 
Project, through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services; (ii) 
the organization of seminars and training programs; and (iii) the 
acquisition of computer equipment, office equipment and one vehicle.
Part D:
Development of Statistic Studies
Implementing, through the Division de la Statistique et des Etudes 
Economiques,  the Borrower's work program for the development through: 
(i) the provision of technical advisory services for assessing existing 
skills in statistics or lack thereof, and evaluating training needs for 
improving the development of statistics; and (ii) the organization of 
seminars and training programs.
Part E:
Capacity Building in the Ministry in charge of Mining
Building capacity in the Ministry in charge of Mining, especially 
in the 
Direction Générale des Mines and the Becdor, through: (i) the 
provision of technical advisory services for the updating of the mining 
code and the improvement of registration for mining permits; (ii) the 
purchase of goods and equipment; and (iii) the organization of training 
programs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 29, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  13
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review for National Competitive Bidding
With respect to the procurement of vehicles, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than subparagraph (a)) and 3 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall apply
3.
Prior Review for National Shopping
With respect to the first two contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $5,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply :
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution 
of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
4.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
Page  14
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services under 
Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for specific and smaller assignments under Part A and B of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning and Terms of Reference
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project and 
all terms of reference for the employment of consulting firms or of 
individual consultants, shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan and 
terms of reference as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants and consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished 
Page  15
to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to the first three (3) contracts estimated to 
cost (i) the equivalent of $50,000 or less for the employment of 
consulting firms ; or (ii) the equivalent of $30,000 or less for the 
employment of individual consultants, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Inter-ministerial Committee
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the Inter-ministerial Committee responsible for supervising the 
implementation of the Project carried out by CTP-PAS, the Privatization 
Commission, the 
Comité de Pilotage-CSLP and the Ministry in charge of 
Mining.
2.
CTP-PAS
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
CTP-PAS, with functions satisfactory to the Association, and with staff 
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association. The 
Borrower shall cause the CTP-PAS to coordinate all Project activities and  
to implement Part C of the Project.
3.
Privatization Commission
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the Privatization Commission, with functions satisfactory to the 
Association, and with staff with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall cause the 
Privatization Commission to carry out and implement Part A of the 
Project.
4.
Comité de Pilotage-CSLP
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the Monitoring Committee-CSLP, with functions satisfactory to the 
Association, and with staff with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall cause the  Comité de 
Pilotage-CSLP to carry out and implement Part B of the Project.
5.
Ministry in Charge of Mining
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
within the Ministry in charge of Mining,  the Direction Générale des 
Mines and the Becdor, with functions satisfactory to the Association, and 
with staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association. The Borrower shall cause the Ministry in charge of Mining to 
Page  16
carry out and implement Part E of the Project.
6.
Division de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the Division de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques, with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, and with staff with experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall cause 
the Division de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques to carry out and 
implement Part D of the Project.
7.
Project Implementation Plan
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
8.
Project Staff
The Borrower shall appoint under the Project : (i) six managerial 
staff to CTP-PAS (one President, one Permanent Secretary, three Experts 
and one Financial Director); (ii) a Financial Analyst and a Legal Counsel 
for the Privatization Commission; (iii) an Economic Advisor to the Prime 
Minister, all with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association.
9.
Performance indicators and Program Reports
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about January 31 and 
July 31 each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than four weeks after 
the presentation of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, said report and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
10.
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 
Page  17
April 30, 2002, the Midterm Review which shall cover, among other things 
: (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; (ii) overall 
Project performance against Project performance indicators; and (iii) the 
quality of the advisory services under the Project;
(b)
furnish to the Association, at least three weeks after the 
Midterm Review, a report describing the status of the items listed in 
paragraph 3 (a) above and of Project implementation generally; and
(c)
prepare, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action plan.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, equipment and vehicles and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to FCFA 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 
150,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Page  18
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Page  19
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
