                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002898



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48290)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                       PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR A

        HENAN TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT



                              December 24, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
China and Mongolia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           Currency Unit=Renminbi (RMB)
                    US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.0080 (Appraisal May 2006)
                  US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.1000 (Project Closing June 2013)

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CQS      Consultant Quality Selection
CY       Calendar Year
DBO      Design Build Operate
EA       Environmental Assessment
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EPB      Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FM       Financial Management
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
FY       Fiscal Year
FYP      Five Year Plan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOC      Government of China
HPEPD    Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Department
HPFD     Henan Provincial Financial Department
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MWR      Ministry of Water Resources
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMO      Project Management Office
PPMO     Provincial Project Management Office
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
TA       Technical Assistance
WTP      Water Treatment Plant
WUC      Water Utility Company
WWTP     Wastewater Treatment Plant


Vice President:                     Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
Country Director:                   Klaus Rohland, EACCF
Sector Manager:                     Mark Lundell, EASCS
Project Team Leader:                Shunong Hu, EASCS
ICR Team Leader:                    Joanna Masic, EASCS
ICR Primary Author:                 Eddie Hum (Consultant)
                                                         CHINA
                         Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project


                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv 
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv 
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv 
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v 
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v 
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... vi 
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi 
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vii 

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13 
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies ......................... 17 

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19 
Annex 2. Project Outputs by Component ..................................................................... 20 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32 
Annex 5. Resettlement Implementation........................................................................ 34 
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40 
                                            DATA SHEET
                    CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project

A. Basic Information
                                                                            Henan Towns Water Supply and
Country:                  China                  Project Name:
                                                                            Sanitation Project
Project ID:               P081348                L/C/TF Number(s):          IBRD-48290
ICR Date:                 11/14/2013             ICR Type:                  Core ICR
Lending Instrument:       SIL                    Borrower:                  People's Republic of China
Original Total
                          US$ 150.00M            Disbursed Amount:          US$ 144.36M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           144.36M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Henan Provincial Financial Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                          Revised / Actual
      Process                   Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:            11/03/2004       Effectiveness:               12/18/2006
Appraisal:                 11/02/2005      Restructuring(s):                                 11/28/2012
Approval:                  06/27/2006      Mid-term Review:              02/25/2010          11/21/2012
                                           Closing:                      06/30/2013          06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                               Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                            Substantial
Bank Performance:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                       Ratings                   Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Moderately Satisfactory        Government:             Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Moderately Unsatisfactory                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                              Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Unsatisfactory                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                              Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
       Implementation Performance             Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)                 Rating
Potential Problem Project at any time (Yes/No): No               Quality at Entry (QEA):        None
Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):           Yes              Quality of Supervision (QSA): None
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:       Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original             Actual
Sector Code (as% of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                                                9                     9
Sub-national government administration                                    5                     5
Wastewater Collection and Transportation                                  4                     4
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal                                         5                     5
Water supply                                                             77                    77



Theme Code (as% of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                             14                   14
Pollution management and environmental health                             29                   29
Regulation and competition policy                                         14                   14
Urban services and housing for the poor                                   29                   29
Water resource management                                                 14                   14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                            At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                   Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:            Klaus Rohland                          David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:              Mark Lundell                           KeshavVarma
Project Team Leader:         Shunong Hu                             Takuya Kamata
ICR Team Leader:             Joanna Masic
ICR Primary Author:          Eddie Hum

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective is to help create or expand water supply and wastewater management services and improve
the planning, regulatory, and operational capacity of sector institutions, thereby helping improve living
conditions and the economic growth of participating county towns with relatively low incomes.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                 Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                 Baseline         Values (from                             Achieved at
          Indicator                                              Revised Target
                                  Value             approval                              Completion or
                                                                    Values
                                                  documents)                              Target Years
Number of people with               1,550                4,202         2,360                    2,169.2
access to improved water
supply in project towns (in
                               The final number of beneficiaries was collected from the 20
thousands)                     counties that remained in the project at the end of 2012, and did not
                               include beneficiaries in counties that dropped from the project.
Number of people with                 364                   811               563                     697
access to wastewater
                               The total number of beneficiaries was 697,000 at the end of 2012, and
management services in
                               does not include people that benefitted from investments in the counties
project towns (in thousands)
                               that dropped from the project.
Aggregate net profit after            -2.3                110.4             69.34                   -5.58
taxes of participating WUCs
                               Data was collected from 20 counties at the end of the project, but did not
(in million RMB)
                               accurately reflect the true financial status of the project utilities as many
                               remain government controlled and benefiting from large subsidies.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
          Date ISR                                                               Actual Disbursements
 No.                               DO                               IP
          Archived                                                                  (US$ millions)
  1      12/12/2006           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2      02/12/2008           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               10.38
  3      04/24/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               24.29
  4      06/29/2010          Unsatisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory              39.46
  5      06/27/2011          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     54.00
  6      12/28/2011          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     62.48
  7      06/13/2012          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     70.64
  8      12/24/2012          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     70.64
  9      06/25/2013          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    116.43

H. Restructuring (if any)
November 28, 2012 – Level II Restructuring.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.        At the time of appraisal in 2006, China had gone through nearly three decades of
economic reform and opening up. Sustained industrial and rural development was key to
China’s remarkable economic growth during this period. As a direct result of government
policies for rural development, the number of towns increased from about 3,000 in 1980
to around 20,000 by 2003, and about 400 towns had grown into full-fledged cities. In
general, a “town” was the official designation in China for urban areas with fewer than
120,000 residents. They were often semi-rural and provide non-farm employment for
rural populations, which represented around 60% of total employment. Towns were also
crucial in providing economic and social services for the rural populations. While towns
had also been at the forefront of industrial growth, the pace of this growth slowed in 2006,
constrained by limited economies of scales, lack of urban services, and inadequate human
resources. Given the importance of towns for both economic growth and public welfare,
especially for rural populations, the government had made their development a top
priority.

2.        In 2006, Henan was the most populous province in China, with about 97 million
inhabitants. It covered the central plain fed by the Yellow and Huai Rivers, and was a key
agricultural region, historically considered the core of the nation. While agriculture only
contributed about 20% of its GDP, the province was still largely rural, with an urban
population of only 23% compared with 42% for the country as a whole. The province
was relatively poor, per capita income in 2005 – Yuan 6,436 – was about 75% of the
national average, and the lowest quartile of China’s per capita distribution. The provincial
government had made accelerating the pace of urbanization a pivotal development
strategy, a crucial part of which was developing its major towns.

3.        However, water supply in Henan was inadequate and unsafe. Even in major
towns, coverage was below 50%, compared with over 90% for China cities and coastal
towns as a whole. One reason for this lack of coverage was overall water scarcity
exacerbated by pollution of shallow groundwater resources. This insufficient supply of
clean and safe water limited the town’s capacity to absorb additional population from
neighboring rural areas and accommodate increased economic activities. To expand the
supply required substantial financial resources that were beyond the ability of the small
water utilities at that time. Many of the water utility companies in Henan were earning
little beyond the financial break-even point, while they were fairly well operated. The
unaccounted for water in project towns ranged between 17% - 60%, and the number of
employees per 1000 connections ranged between 7 – 55 number.

4.       The Bank assistance was to help a larger number of Henan’s towns to develop
the water supply and wastewater management services required both for an acceptable
quality of life and for growth. It was also an important opportunity for the Bank to
develop and refine operational mechanisms for production efficiency and sustainability.



                                             1
5.        The project was in line with one of the five strategic pillars in the China Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS, FY2006 – 2010, Report No. 35435): managing resource
scarcity and better environmental management. In addition, it supported the acceleration
of urbanization and improvement of growth and welfare in rural and semi-urban areas,
which was one of the policy directions of China’s Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2006 – 2010).

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.       The PDO in the PAD and the Loan Agreement were not the same. The PDO in
the PAD was to help create or expand water supply and wastewater management services
and improve the planning, regulatory, and operational capacity of sector institutions,
thereby helping improve living conditions and the economic growth of participating
county towns with relatively low incomes.

7.        The PDO in the Loan Agreement was to assist the Borrower’s Henan Province
in expanding water supply and wastewater management services and improving the
institutional capacity of relevant institutions to plan, regulate and operate such services.

8.       Key performance indicators (KPI) included (a) the number of people with access
to improved water supply; (b) the number of people with access to improved wastewater
management services; (c) population growth; and (d) aggregate net profit after taxes of
the water utility company.

1.3 Revised PDOs and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.       The project was restructured in November 2012 as eleven subprojects did not
follow Bank procurement procedures and were ineligible for Bank retroactive financing,
as well as six subprojects withdrew from the Loan due to securing other financing
sources. As a result, the total loan savings amounted to around US$44 million. The
original PDOs remained unchanged, but the KPI on population growth was dropped
because it was not relevant and the other KPI targets were revised as shown in table
below.

   Outcome Indicators         Stage      2005    2006    2007   2008    2009    2010    2011    2012
1. No of people with         Appraisal   1,550   1,550   1,516 1,921    2,569   3,191   4,202   4,202
access to improved water
supply in project towns.
(in 1,000)                   Revised     847     850     835    1,062   1,426   1,772   2,351   2,360

2. No of people with         Appraisal   364     364     364    445     594     743     811     811
access to waste water
management services in
project towns. (in 1,000)    Revised     249     249     250    306     410     514     562     563

3. Aggregate net profit      Appraisal   -2.3    -1.1     0.2   12.8     32     57.6    92.8    110.4
after tax of participating
WUCs. (in RMB Million)
                             Revised     -1.41   -0.68   0.12   7.94    19.91   35.90   58.11   69.34




                                                   2
10.      The restructuring added a new category (Goods) in the disbursement table to
finance the purchase of office equipment; and the disbursement percentage for Works
was increased from 66% to 95% to make use of the loan savings. The total cost of the
project went down from the originally planned amount of US$302.62 million to
US$239.27 million (or 79% of the original total project cost).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

11.       As identified in the PAD, the primary beneficiaries were the 4.202 million
people in 37 towns with access to project financed water supply services and 811,000
people in 10 towns with access to project financed wastewater management services. As
part of the loan restructuring in November 2012, the number of people with access to
water supply services was reduced to 2.360 million in 20 towns, and the number of
people with access to wastewater management services was reduced to 563,000 in 6
towns. Furthermore, the project benefited staff from the PMOs, county towns and
participating utilities through training and capacity building.

1.5 Original Components

12.         The project comprised of three components as described below:

      (a)   Water Supply (Total Cost: US$203.95 million, of which the IBRD Loan was
            US$114.99 million).This component was designed to finance the construction of
            water supply facilities, including (i) water treatment facilities with a total
            capacity of 790,000 m3 per day; (ii) 2,400 km of water distribution networks,
            including user connections and installation of meters; and iii) the rehabilitation
            and expansion of water distribution networks, in 37 project counties.

      (b)   Wastewater Management (Total Cost: US$44.01 million, of which the IBRD
            Loan was US$26.78 million).This component was designed to finance the
            construction of wastewater treatment facilities, with a total design capacity of
            105,000 m3 per day, in five counties and installation of more than 440 km of
            sewer pipelines in 10 project counties.

      (c)   Technical Assistance (Total Cost: US$7.86 million, of which the IBRD Loan
            was US$7.86 million).This component financed five different advisory services:
            (i) Regional Planning for Small Town Development (US$ 700,000); (ii) Water
            Sector Regulations (US$ 700,000); (iii) Project Management (US$ 1.14
            million); (iv) Utility Staff Training (US$ 660,000); and (v) Detailed
            Engineering Design and Design Review (US$ 4.66 million).

1.6 Revised Components

13.      The restructuring reduced the scope of the project as eleven subprojects were
found ineligible for Bank financing during the first ex-post procurement review and



                                                3
another six counties received government or private sector funds to complete the
subprojects after appraisal. The components were revised as follow:

   (a)   Water Supply Component. . The scope of the component was reduced to the (i)
         construction of water supply facilities in 20 counties with a total capacity of
         445,000 m3 per day; and (ii) installation of 1,209.3 km of water distribution
         networks, including user connections and installation of meters.

   (b)   Wastewater Management Component. The scope of the component was reduced
         to install only 260.2 km of wastewater pipelines in 6 counties; and no
         wastewater treatment facility was financed under the project.

   (c)   Technical Assistance Component. This component remained unchanged, but the
         Regional Planning for Small Town Development and the Water Sector
         Regulations studies were dropped due to delays in starting the procurement
         process and lack of time to complete either one after the restructuring and
         before closing of the project.


1.7 Other significant changes

14.       The planned project costs were significantly reduced from US$302.62 million to
US$239.27 million as 17 towns dropped out of the project (see Annex 1 and 2 for details).
During the first three years of implementation, the costs of water distribution networks
increased by 10% on average, and water supply facilities increased by 18%. In addition,
the appreciation of the RMB against the US Dollar put additional pressure on the timely
availability of additional counterpart funding, which caused delays in construction works.
At restructuring, the borrower and the Bank agreed to increase the disbursement
percentage of works, including supply of equipment, from 66% to 95%, in order to
absorb loan savings and help reduce the counterpart funding burden following the
constant devaluation of the US dollar against the RMB.

15.      As mentioned before, the outcome indicator which monitors the aggregate
population growth in participating towns was dropped; and some target of monitoring
indicators and results framework to reflect the restructured components. The restructuring
request also included a request for a Loan closing date extension of six months; however
the Bank did not accept this request because the project had been in unsatisfactory status
since June 2010.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.       Soundness of the background analysis. The background analysis was
satisfactory. The project was and has remained consistent with the China Country



                                            4
Partnership Strategy FY 2006 to 2010 (Report No. 35435), the policy directions of
China’s 11th Five Year Plan (2006 – 2010) and provincial priorities. It also incorporated
lessons learned from earlier and similar operations in China. Lessons learned included:
(a) qualified, appropriate and competent staffing and strong project management at
provincial and county level are essential for good project implementation; (b) prevention
of the tendency to develop excessive capacity for water and wastewater management
services through realistic demand management; (c) a need for pricing reform to ensure
financial sustainability of invested assets; (d) adoption of current market unit costs for
project cost estimates; and (e) adequate resettlement planning, consultation and
monitoring. At the time of project preparation, Henan was of more rural nature and the
provincial government wanted to focus on urbanization through improvement of the
infrastructural construction of small towns with a population over 50,000, and a key
constraint to the towns’ development was cited as water supply and wastewater
management. However, as it was the Bank’s first urban project in Henan, the project did
not adequately achieve the criteria for selection of project towns, nor did it anticipate
adequately any delays in implementation and completion dates of proposed subprojects
during preparation.

17.       Assessment of project design. The project design was moderately satisfactory.
All selected project designs were assessed from technical, financial, environmental,
social and institutional aspects. Based on the number of components and activities
contributing to the PDO, this project was simple with very well defined components: one
water component; one wastewater component; and one TA component, and the only
financiers were the borrower and the Bank. The main issue was the geographic scope of
the project with 37 towns spread over 12 counties. It is not very clear how the towns were
chosen but it seems they were selected based on population size and poverty rates, but the
commitment and readiness of each county to the project was not clearly recognized and
there was little flexibility to replace subprojects. Due to the urgent need for improved
water supply, a number of towns moved ahead as soon as subprojects were appraised and
before project approval with procurement and contracting of subprojects using local
funds. Unfortunately, Bank procurement procedures were not followed, and most work
was not eligible for retroactive financing and was dropped from the project. In hindsight,
it might have been advisable to have started with a few counties and towns so the Bank
and PMO could work closely with local utilities, gain experience, make adjustments and
then scale up with additional financing. Finally, the indicator on population growth was
poorly chosen and eventually dropped, while an indicator related to the sustainability of
project financed assets should have been included in the design.

18.      Adequacy of government’s commitment. The Henan Provincial Government
established a Steering Committee, chaired by a Henan vice governor, to offer overall
policy direction for preparation of the project. The Henan PPMO, located in the
Provincial Finance Department; municipal governments; county governments and water
and wastewater utility companies were involved in the project design. Having the
Provincial Finance Department coordinating a water and wastewater project, might not
have been the most appropriate agency with little capacity to guide implementation,
especially on technical issues. Moreover, the ownership and capacity at the county level



                                            5
was weak and municipalities were not engaged to support and coordinate activities,
leading to many delays and challenges to coordinate activities at the Provincial level.
While the commitment at the Provincial level was satisfactory, at the local
implementation level the commitment was considered moderately unsatisfactory as many
towns were not fully committed to this project and eventually dropped for different
reasons.

19.       Assessment of risks. Critical risks and mitigation measures were well identified,
and technical and managerial risks were only rated moderate, where substantial would
have been more appropriate for a project involving so many counties and towns. An
expert group was recommended to provide training, and technical and supervision
support during implementation and help mitigate some of the risks, however the expert
group was never institutionalized, which had a significant impact on the preparation and
implementation of the project. The mitigation measures to address some of risks and
achieving the planned outcomes lacked a set of clear actions to be taken. In addition, the
risk of a number of subprojects dropping out of the project during the first year after the
loan became effective in December 2006 was not fully recognized and mitigation
measures to replace these investments were not designed.

20.      The Quality of Assurance Group (QAG) did not review quality-at-entry, but
based on the review above, the quality-at-entry can be rated moderately unsatisfactory,
due to problems with local commitment, the institutional framework and lack of clear
understanding of Bank policies and procedures.

2.2 Implementation

21.      The project became effective about five months after the Board approved in
June 2006, and judging from the ratings in the data sheet, it immediately started slipping.
Overall, project implementation was unsatisfactory due to (a) difficulties with
procurement; (b) weakness in project management; (c) ineffective use of TA; (d) slow
response to management issues.

22.      Procurement Problems. Although procurement capacity was assessed during
project preparation and training was conducted for the PMOs and participating utilities
during project preparation, roughly one year after the loan became effective, the PPMO
forwarded procurement documents of retroactive financing for eleven participating
counties to the Bank for review and no objection, and all of them were found ineligible
for the Bank financing. This led to eleven participating counties, accounting for about
one third of the Loan, being dropped from the project. Another six counties dropped since
they secured other local sources to finance the subprojects. As a result the loan savings
amounted to about US$44 million. The Bank and the PPMO could have taken a more
proactive approach to track retroactive procurement actions in earlier stages that carried
out by participating counties and utilities in order to prevent these difficulties with
procurement. On the other hand, there should be a way to check and ensure that the
PMOs and PIUs clearly understand the Bank’s procurement rules and requirements after
receiving training during the project preparation stage.



                                             6
23.        Weak Project Management. Capacity in small towns is generally weak and
can have a serious impact on project implementation. During preparation, the task team
identified technical and managerial weaknesses in provincial and participating counties
and correctly rated this risk as substantial. For mitigation of this substantial risk, the
project recommended establishing an expert group and appointment of project
management consulting company to provide technical guidance, strong supervision, and
training for technical staff during implementation. During implementation, the province
felt that the appointment of an expert group would be more cost-effective than hiring a
project management consulting company, and delayed the appointment of project
management consulting until October 2011 in project implementation. This ineffective
use of TA funds, especially those designed to support the province and participating
counties on project management, led to problems with procurement, lack of timely
replenishment of counterpart funds, lack of replacement of dropped subprojects and
utilization of loan savings, and delays in processing the project restructuring.

24.       Lack of Commitment and Initiative. During project implementation there
were a number of risks that were recognized at the outset, such as ensuring that designs
were based on actual supply and realistic demand projections; lack of clear understanding
of Bank procurement rules and requirements( even after receiving training); and delays in
availability and disbursement of counterpart funds. However, many problems were not
addressed swiftly by the Bank team nor the PPMO, causing major and continuous delays
with project implementation thus resulted in the project not achieving the planned outputs
and outcomes during implementation. Some of these problems could have been
minimized with better communication and more frequent interactions between the Bank,
the PPMO, local PMOs and PIUs so that they could have been addressed in a timely
manner. The consulting company and the DI that supported the PMOs and PIUs to
prepare project designs and support with project management were not very strong and
did not deliver as expected, resulting in unsatisfactory implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.      The Results Frameworks for this project was unsatisfactory.

26.      M&E design. There were four KPIs to monitor results and progress towards
achieving the PDO focusing on building or expanding water supply and wastewater
management services and improving the planning, regulatory, and operational capacity of
sector institutions. However, there was no KPI to measure the part of the PDO about
“improving living conditions” or “improving economic growth of participating county
towns with relatively low incomes”. The Loan Agreement PDO was used because it was
more concise. The lack of intermediate outcome indicators was a big problem. One of the
four proposed indicators was dropped at restructuring because it was irrelevant.

27.      M&E implementation. The selected project outcome indicators were
oversimplified and inadequate to monitor the PDO and project implementation. Based on
the proposed project outcome indicators and EMP, the monitoring and evaluation carried



                                             7
out by the participating counties was rated moderately unsatisfactory because of (a) a
poor M&E framework at appraisal that was not enhanced during supervision; (b) poor
Borrower’s performance on data collection and analysis; and (c) no intermediate outcome
indicators introduced during implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.       The project was designed to improve the local environment and quality of life
for local residents through improved water supply and enhanced wastewater management.
The project was a Category B under OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, which was an
appropriate categorization for this project. The project triggered EA, involuntary
resettlement and dam safety policies.

29.      Environmental Safeguards. The EA and EMP were prepared according to the
national policies and regulations, and the Bank safeguard policies. Implementation of the
EMP was rated moderately unsatisfactory because its implementation was delayed and
monitoring data for air emissions, odor, influent and effluent quality of Baofeng WWTP
were not submitted to the Bank. During project implementation, air quality PM10 and
noise levels at construction sites were monitored, and all monitoring results were in
accordance with the stipulated Standards (GB3095-96 and GB/T14623). Samples of both
raw surface water and treated water (clear water) of the water supply subprojects were
collected and analyzed. All laboratory results met the stipulated Environmental Quality
Standards for Surface Water (GB3838-2002) and Drinking Water Standards (GB/T5750-
2006).

30.       Social safeguards. Resettlement activities were carried out moderately
satisfactory. External monitoring of safeguard implementation was carried out in
accordance with the legal agreements. A final report on resettlement implementation was
prepared, but there are inconsistencies in the data, which the PPMO has not been able to
clarify. The actual resettlement impacts included almost 660 mu of permanently acquired
land, which affected 713 households or 2,834 people, and 300 m2 of residential housing
demolition which affected 4 households or 15 people. Some land was temporarily used
for water pipes installation, but most of it was along main urban roads and the land was
returned to the owners shortly after installation was completed. Some temporarily used
land affected crops and farmers received compensation according to local government
regulations. The compensation rates for resettlement and land acquisition ended up higher
than the rates agreed in the RAP, except for about 57.4 mu of land for which an annual
rental fee is being paid. The original cost estimate for land acquisition and resettlement
was RMB 97.67 million, but the final cost was much lower at about RMB 34.67 million.
This was the result of subprojects in 17 participating counties being dropped from the
project. More details are provided in Annex 5.

31.      Dam Safety. The project did not finance the construction of dams. However, the
Longxingxi Dam in Baofeng County and the Zhaopingtai Dam in Lushan County were
used as raw water sources for the water supply subprojects under the Loan. The Bank’s




                                            8
dam safety expert visited both dams and reviewed documents concerning the safety of
these dams. Both the Longxingxi Dam and the Zhaopingtai Dam are operationally safe.

32.       Financial Management. Adequate financial management arrangements were
put in place to ensure proper use and accounting of project funds. However, internal
control of accounting matters, such as timely payments; certificates issued; accurate
payments; etc., were weak and the Bank intervened on several occasions to train the staff
and correct these weaknesses. Financial management was rated moderately satisfactory.

33.       Procurement. Procurement activities were carried out unsatisfactorily by all
agencies, Examples of difficulties with procurement include: (a) rejection of 21 contracts
from 18 participating counties for not following Bank procurement procedures; (b) lack
of bid evaluations and selection reports and inconsistent information; (c) complaints
frequently ignored; and (d) long delays in the procurement process without adequate
justification. At the end, a number of contracts had to be dropped as they were ineligible
for Bank financing and had to be financed domestically.

34.       To address the problems with procurement and reduce risks, the Bank requested
that all procurement documents were sent to the Bank for prior review.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

35.     It is likely that the subprojects financed under the project will be operated with
marginal profits, as they will likely continue receiving limited subsidies from local
governments. Participating utilities have the following plans or programs in place to
reduce water losses, improve operation and maintenance, and increase revenues:
   (a) Detecting and replacing old and leaking water pipelines to reduce unaccounted for
       water, which ranges from 30% to 60%;
   (b) Conserving energy consumption and optimizing chemical use;
   (c) Closing of self-supplied ground water wells; and
   (d) Increasing water tariffs to cover costs.

36.        In addition to the above-mentioned plans and programs, the participating
utilities also have time-bound programs for staff training and development.




                                             9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

37.       The relevance of the PDO can be rated substantial as it was straight-forward and
firmly addressed the situation identified during preparation. It was also fully supported by
the government’s own policies and the Bank’s CAS at the time of appraisal. The PDO
remained relevant right through to closing with the Bank’s current Country Partnership
Strategy for China 2013 – 2016, supporting both green growth and promotion of more
inclusive development. The basic design is rated modest as the project was mostly
installing water systems and a few wastewater collection systems to meet the PDO, plus a
TA component to improve the performance of participating water utilities, but the
commitment of participating towns was not fully assessed. At the time of project closing,
all components remained important but many subprojects were financed outside of the
project and outcomes of these subprojects were not supervised nor monitored. The
outcomes are unknown, thus, the project implementation is rated modest.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Unsatisfactory

38.     As mentioned in Section 1.2, the PDOs in the PAD and the PDOs in the Loan
Agreement were different. The achievement is based on the PDO used in the Loan
Agreement as the project did not contain any indicators related to (a) improving living
conditions; and (b) improving economic growth of the project towns. Upon completion,
the project only partially met the PDO and, therefore, the achievement is rated as
unsatisfactory. Unfortunately, many subprojects were implemented using domestic funds
and dropped from the project, these subprojects were not monitored and their outcomes
are unknown.

(a) Objective 1: Expanding water supply services.

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

39.    At the time the loan was approved, the KPI related to the expansion of water
services was “number of people with access to improved water supply in the project
towns”. The baseline in 2005 was 1,550,000 and the appraisal and restructuring targets
were 4,202,000 and 2,360,000 respectively. However, the actual achieved was 2,169,200,
or 52% and 92% of the appraisal and restructuring targets respectively.

40.    In terms of outputs, the number of project towns was originally 37, but was
reduced to 20 for reason described in Section 2.2. The project outputs that expanded
water supply services involved the following:
       (i)   Eighteen number of water treatment plants were constructed, increasing a
             total capacity by 445,000 m3/day, or 63% of the appraisal target of 790,000
             m3/day.


                                            10
       (ii)   The project was targeted to construct 2,400 km of water distribution
              network but achieved only 1,286.50 km, or about 54% of the planned.
       (iii) These networks and water treatment plants together have expanded water
             supply service in 20 project towns, to a total 2,169,200 people, or 52% of
             the original target of 4,202,000 people.

41.     The 18 WTPs are operating above 75% of their respective built capacity and are
delivering water meeting the China National Drinking Water Standards.

(b) Objective 2: Expanding wastewater management services

Rating: Unsatisfactory

42.     At the time the loan was approved, the KPI related to the expansion of wastewater
management services was “number of people with access to wastewater management
services in the project towns”. The baseline in 2005 was 249,000 and the appraisal and
restructuring targets were 811,000 and 563,000 respectively. However, the actual
achieved was 697,000, or 86% and 124% of the appraisal and restructuring targets
respectively.

43.    In terms of outputs, the number of project towns was originally ten, but was
reduced to six for reason described in Section 2.2.The project outputs that expanded
wastewater management services involved the following:
       (a) The originally four wastewater treatment plants of total capacity 105,000
           m3/day were constructed using other financing.
       (b) The project was targeted to construct 440 km of sewer network but achieved
           only 161 km, or 37%.
       (c) These sewer networks have expanded wastewater management service in 6
           project towns, to a total 697,000 people, compared to the appraisal target of
           811,000, or 86%.

44.       The built sewer networks are conveying wastewater to the existing WWTPs in
the six project towns. However, neither the operational capacity nor the treated effluent
quality of the WWTPs in the project towns was made available for the Bank.

(c) Objective 3: Improving the institutional capacity of relevant institutions to plan,
regulate and operate such services.

Rating: Unsatisfactory

45.       This objective was designed to provide technical assistance to improve
institutional capacity at the provincial and county levels to perform utility regulatory
functions, develop an improved regulatory framework for private sector participation in
the water and wastewater treatment sectors, and develop specific guidelines and
appropriate options for private service provision. It also called for the provision of TA to


                                             11
improve management and operational capacities of the PIUs/WUCs to carry out the
Project, as well as in the areas of financial management, resource mobilization (including
tariff setting, operational efficiency, upgrading commercial operations) and human
resource development. However, the values of the above-mentioned TA have not been
well received by the PPMO and also the participating counties and they were not
implemented when the requested extension of the project closing date was not accepted
by the Bank.

46.       The relevant KPI was “aggregate net profit after taxes of participating WUCs”
with the end of the project target of RMB110.4 million. However, the data collected from
the 20 counties at the end of the project does not accurately reflect the true financial
status of the project utilities which did not become autonomous utilities, but rather
remained under government control, benefiting from large subsidies.

47.        Core Sector Indicators. The CSIs “Number of people in urban areas provided
with access to improved water sources under the project” was 2,169,000; and “Number of
utilities that the project is supporting” was 20. These were added very late in
implementation in response to a new institutional mandate. Thus, they were not included
in the Results Framework.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

48.      Economic. Efficiency is rated satisfactory. The project improved the water
supply and wastewater services in towns in participating counties in Henan province
through capital investments, institutional development and capacity building. Detailed
economic analysis is included in Annex 3 and shows that the efficiency of investments
for water supply components was high. EIRRs were recalculated for low-income counties
(e.g. Suiping and Yiyang), middle-income county (e.g.Suixian); and high-income
counties (e.g. Tongxu and Weishi). The EIRRs of low-income, middle-income and high-
income at completion were 21.9%, 12.5% and 31.1% respectively; compared to the
estimated EIRRs at appraisal which were slightly higher 25.8%, 25.0% and 33.6%
respectively.

49.      Financial. Financial internal rate of return (FIRR) was reassessed for the water
supply and wastewater components in each county. At appraisal, FIRRs for water
components were mostly above 10%, ranging between 9.6% and 16.4%,and those for
wastewater component were above 6.0%.At completion, FIRRs for the water components
ranged from 0 to 12.4%.The FIRRs at completion were lower than what were forecasted
at appraisal, the main reasons being: (a) most counties' tariffs were much lower than what
was expected at appraisal, (b) most companies have employed more staff than needed;
and(c) unaccounted for water is still high (ranging from 30% - 60%).




                                            12
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

50.      The overall outcome rating of the project is assessed as unsatisfactory because
the PDO was unsatisfactorily completed; the economic benefits were partially realized;
and financial sustainability is unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development (NA)

51.       The project did not have a poverty reduction theme nor focus on gender aspects
or social development aspects. However, it did contribute to improvement of the quality
of life of people in 20 counties, and poor, including women, benefitted from the
expanded clean water supply and sanitation services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

52.       The water and wastewater utilities were the implementing agencies responsible
for project design, implementation, monitoring and reporting, and procurement of civil
work contracts for the water supply and wastewater systems. The project targeted
institutional reform by establishing financially autonomous utility companies that were
able to manage and operate efficiently and effectively the assets placed under their
ownership. However, the utilities actually did not implement the reforms envisaged in the
PAD and little institutional progress was made as a result (see Section 3.2 in Annex 2 for
further details).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative) (NA)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(NA)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

53.       The risks identified were: (a) inadequate financial and technical resources; (b)
weak preparation and implementation; and (c) technical and managerial weakness. With
technical and managerial weakness was rated substantial the other two risks were rated
moderate. Mitigation measures were suggested for either prevention or minimization of
the risks. Although the mitigation measures suggested were good, they had not received
adequate commitment and attention in terms of (a) establishing a strong technical and
managerial assistance from the provincial level; (b) introducing a tariff that covers most
of the costs and commitment to revising them further; and (c) strengthening all PMOs
with a team of diverse experts who could work together with the Bank. The overall risk



                                            13
to development outcome is rated substantial because (a) there were very little gains on
institutional capacity building; (b) there was no material on the status of O&M, financing
and planning of the utilities.

54.       Training of staff from PMOs and water utilities, as well as procurement of
expert group and consultants could have done better to prevent the PMOs which had
virtually operated business as usual during project preparation and implementation that
proposed mitigation measures had not been translated into actions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

55.       The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory because the project was well focused on few sectors and the preparation and
appraisal of technical aspects was well conducted, the Bank also ensured that fiduciary
arrangements were adequate and that provision was made to respect safeguard. On the
other hand, the project was complex and capacity of towns to implement these selection
criteria for participating counties were not clearly listed and explained to the candidate
counties. In particular, the time constraints and financing issues were not adequately
highlighted to the candidate counties. There was an overly optimistic assessment of the
ability of counties to secure and disburse counterpart funds; and monitoring and
evaluation arrangements were weak.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

56.       The Bank team paid particular attention to technical issues, institutional
development, other fiduciary matters and related development impacts and supported
Henan to implement the project. However, the team could have been more proactive,
address issues in a more timely fashion and strengthening supervision, including by: (a)
giving more intensive training on all aspects of procurement for all counterpart staff who
work on procurement issues; (b) encouraging the client to seek technical assistance from
firms or individuals who have work experience with the Bank; (c) providing more solid
and timely support on key issues raised by the government; (d) reducing differences in
perception of development outcome and institutional development capacity building
between the PMOs and the Bank; (e) ensuring sustainability of built assets; and (f)
monitoring and evaluating project progress.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance




                                            14
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

57.      In line with ICR guidelines, the overall Bank performance rating is moderately
unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

58.       The rating refers to the PPMO and local PMOs. Although the Provincial
Government had shown strong commitment to the Project during preparation and
appraisal, due to a shortage of multidisciplinary staff (in particular management,
engineering and procurement professionals) in the PPMO and PMOs, it has impeded their
ability to deliver the project in an effective and efficient manner was impeded. In addition,
the commitment at the local level was not so strong and varied between counties. As the
participating counties were new to the Bank projects, the Bank team had repeatedly urged
the government to (a) establish a small but efficient PMOs with technical staff; and (b)
engage experienced consultants and consulting firms in preparing feasibility study reports
and designs, project management, contract management, detailed design review, bid
documents review, and project monitoring and reporting. However, the Bank team’s
recommendations were not fully endorsed by the local government and inexperienced
consultants and design institutes were engaged. This resulted in poor designs and
problems with delivering the project in the first few years of implementation. Eleven
subprojects did not follow Bank procurement procedures and were not eligible for Bank
retroactive financing, as well as six subprojects withdrew from the Loan due to securing
other financing sources. The restructuring, which was discussed soon after subprojects
started, dropping out of the project, was processed with great delay and only in
November 2012.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

59.       The implementing agencies (IA) performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
During the first few years of project preparation and implementation, a large number of
PIUs participated in the project. They showed commitment to deliver the project to
achieve the PDO. During the first year of implementation, however, the Bank team found
that a significant number of participating counties had already procured a number of
contracts that did not follow the Bank’s guidelines and, therefore, were ineligible for
Bank financing. The poor designs and lack of counterpart financing, further delayed
project implementation. At the end, after many delays, project counties were able to build
appropriate water supply facilities and sewerage systems which still benefited a large
number of people with 2.169 million people getting access to water services and 697,000
people getting access to wastewater services.



                                            15
60.       Moreover, the PIUs have committed to operate and maintain the built assets and
meet drinking water standards. In addition, they have also developed plans for financial
self-reliance and sustainability.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

61.      The performance of the borrower is rated moderately unsatisfactory, due to the
problems during implementation with contracts being awarded and implemented without
following Bank procedures, delays in allocation of counterpart funding to respective
subprojects, issues with engineering designs and procurement documentation, lack of
technical staff to support implementation, and extensive delays in processing the project’s
restructuring. The implementation of the project was severely hampered by the delays in
processing the restructuring of the project, which was finally processed only in
November 2012.

6. Lessons Learned

62.       Hiring of consultants to help the Borrower in project preparation must
start at project identification stage. The risk of weak project preparation and
implementation was identified as moderate during project preparation which was
oversight. The lack of technical staff in the provincial PMO and weak capacity in small
towns need strong support starting from project preparation. Thus, hiring of consultants
to help the Borrower in project preparation must start in project identification stage.

63.       A full understanding of the screening and selection criteria by participating
counties is important to ensure success. The screening criteria for participating counties
must be clearly presented, discussed and agreed among all stakeholders. It is very
important that candidate counties clearly and fully understand project selection criteria
which must properly consider time constraints, resources and final goals. Screening
criteria for participating counties were not clearly defined nor fully understood by
candidate counties and this led to the 11 participating counties which did not follow the
Bank’s procurement rules for their retroactive financing subprojects and were rejected.

64.       Engagement of both a team of experts and a design institute working in
tandem to support the PMOs and WUCs in preparation of a FSR is not practical.
The project was designed to engage both a team of experts and a design institute (DI)
working in tandem to support the PMOs and WUCs in preparation of a FSR is not
practical. This is particularly true regarding the preparation of FSR for small towns that
often have weak capacity and might not engage the most appropriate team of experts to
prepare the project. Not to mention that preparation of FSR calls for multi-disciplinary
professionals working in a coordinated effort. It is important that the DI takes the full
responsibility over the preparation of the FSR, and experts are only involved in a review




                                            16
and advisory role, especially in areas were innovative approaches are introduced and the
DI has limited experience.

65.       Programmatic loan with a framework for selecting and appraising
subprojects could have been more appropriated. Based on some of the lessons learned
above, a phased approach could have been more appropriate for this project and reduced
the risk of subprojects dropping out. During project preparation a framework could have
been prepared for selecting and appraising subprojects and applied to the “most ready”
subprojects (first 18 months of implementation). Clear triggers could have been designed
for moving from the first phase to second phase of subprojects selection and
implementation. A similar approach has been successfully applied around the world and
in the case of the Wenchuan Earthquake Reconstruction Project (WERP) for projects
involving a large number of counties and subprojects. In addition, a more demand driven
approach can help create a competitive environment for counties and towns to access
loan proceeds rather than pre-selecting counties that might not be fully committed to the
project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (See Annex 6)

66.       Overall project objectives were largely met, although the financial targets for the
water utilities were not met. Due to many subprojects dropping from the project, the
overall projects costs went down. The financing by the Bank loan remained close to the
originally planned amount, meaning that counterpart financing reduced considerably.
According to the Borrower, the sustainability of the project is ensured since the
institutional arrangement are appropriate, the utilities have the capacity to operate and
maintain these facilities, although subsidies will be needed in the near future. The Bank’s
performance during project preparation and implementation was considered satisfactory
and the diligence of World Bank managers and staff was widely appreciated by all the
implementing agencies. The Borrower also highlights that all different level of
government were fully committed to the project and helped coordinate project
implementation. The support of local staff, and training were insufficient, being
insufficiently considered for the project appraisal phase.

67.      The entire implementation process has been a valuable experience for all the
agencies involved and capacity building of the PIUs has been achieved that will help
them with their future projects. The Bank team introduced advanced management
practices for project implementation and enterprise operation, such as modern project
management systems, international practices for bidding and contracting, construction
supervision, performance evaluation. More resources and manpower should have been
provided during the project preparation period, especially technical assistance and
consulting services to support the planning and designs. The borrower suggests more
attention to training and sharing of templates like TORs to assist the PMO and PIUs and
more resources are provided for the preparation and supervision of projects.




                                             17
68.      The performance of the government and PMO was rated moderately
unsatisfactory due to deficiencies, such as: lack of technical capacity and delays in mid-
term review and restructuring of the project. The PMO actually hired a consultant
company to provide technical support to the team and the delays in the mid-term review
and restructuring was mainly caused by disagreements with NDRC regarding the revised
scope of the project. Neither Henan Province nor the PMO were in the position to make a
final decision and, after the restructuring was finally process and approved, the project
actually achieved good outcomes. Therefore, the Borrower believes the performance
should be rated moderately satisfactory instead.

69.      The Borrower also did not agree with the rating of the PIUs’ performance as
moderately unsatisfactory. This rating was based on the many contracts that were not in
compliance with World Bank policies and procedures and were not eligible for Bank
financing. In addition, counterpart funding was not provided in time, and the engineering
designs changed many times. The Borrower believes that it was understandable that
many PIUs went ahead and signed contracts before the project's effectiveness. The 42
subprojects that were appraised were high-priority investments and many counties could
not wait until the Bank loan became effective. The problem of delays in counterpart
financing is a common problem in World Bank projects, and the repeated changes in
engineering designs were the result of the lack of clear guidance of the Task Team, which
also changed over-time. Therefore, we believe the rating of the PIUs should be upgraded
to moderately satisfactory.




                                           18
                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
               CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project


Table 1.1. Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal Estimate      Latest Estimate     Percentage of
Components
                                      (US$ million)          (US$ million)       Appraisal

Water Supply                               203.95                205.31             101%

Wastewater Management                        44.01                17.20               39%

Technical Assistance                          7.86                  2.18              28%

Land Acquisition and Resettlement            30.56                10.07               33%

Project Overheads                            16.24                  4.51              28%

Total Project Costs                        302.62                239.27              79%

Interest During Construction                 29.38                 0.57                2%

Commitment Fees                               3.32                  4.30            130%

Front-end fee IBRD                            0.38                 0.38             100%

Total Financing Required                   335.70                244.52              73%



Table 1.2. Project Financing
 Source of            Type of       Appraisal Estimate      Latest Estimate     Percentage of
  Funds             Co-financing      (US$ million)          (US$ million)       Appraisal
Borrower     Counterpart Fund              185.70                100.16               54%
IBRD         External Borrowing            150.00               144.36*               96%
Total                                      335.70                244.52              73%
* The undisbursed balance of US$5.64 million was closed on November 25, 2013.




                                                19
                   Annex 2. Subprojects and Outputs by Component
               CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project



Table 2.1. List of towns that dropped from the project.
No   Municipality      County     Cost Estimate             Reasons for Dropping Out
                                   US$ million
A    Water Supply                     150.49
1                    Weishi            11.97      Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
2    Kaifeng         Lankao            11.81      Completed with alternative local funds
3                    Kaifeng             4.48     Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
4                    Yiyang            10.10      Completed with alternative local funds
     Luoyang
5                    Songxian            6.87     Completed with alternative local funds
6                    Xinxiang            7.94     Completed with alternative local funds
     Xinxiang
7                    Yuanyang          10.18      Problems with land acquisition
8    Xuchang         Xiangcheng          9.03     Completed with alternative local funds
9                    Shanxian            8.00     Completed with alternative local funds
     Sanmenxia
10                   Yima                7.79     Completed with alternative local funds
11                   Queshan             7.40     Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
12   Zhumadian       Xiping              8.45     Completed with alternative local funds
13                   Zhengyang           7.07     Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
14                   Minggan             5.60     Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
15   Xinyang         Xixian              6.04     Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
16                   Yangshan          16.55      Completed with alternative local funds
17   Jiaozhou        Mengzhou          11.21      Completed with alternative local funds
B    Wastewater Management             38.12
1                    Mengjin             9.65     Completed with alternative local funds
     Luoyang
2                    Songxian            8.96     Completed with alternative local funds
3    Xinxiang        Yuanyang            9.70     Did not follow Bank Procurement Guidelines
4    Xingyang        Huangchuan          9.81     Completed with alternative local funds
     Total                            188.61




                                           20
Table 2.2. List of towns that stayed with the project.
No    Municipality    County        Cost          Appraisal Targets                Actual
                                  Estimate
                                   US$ M
                                             445,000 m3/day WTP          445,000 m3/day WTP
 A    Water Supply                 205.31
                                             1209.30 km water networks   1286.50 km water networks
                                             35,000 m3/day WTP           35,000 m3/day WTP
 1                    Tongxu       16.72
                                             75.25 km water networks     102 km water networks
      Kaifeng
                                             25,000 m3/day WTP           25,000 m3/day WTP
 2                     Qixian      14.18
                                             63.72 km water networks     156.40 km water networks
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 3    Luoyang         Mengjin      10.66
                                             51.70 km water networks     31.40 km water networks
                                             15,000 m3/day WTP           15,000 m3/day WTP
 4                    Baofeng       9.46
                                             77.19 km water networks     68.80 km water networks
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 5    Pingdingshan     Jiaxian      8.25
                                             40.43 km water networks     58.50 km water networks
                                             30,000 m3/day WTP           30,000 m3/day WTP 20.10 km
 6                    Lushan        9.69
                                             72.06 km water networks     water networks
                                             25,000 m3/day WTP           25,000 m3/day WTP
 7    Xinxiang        Fengqiu       8.30
                                             33.72 km water networks      103 km water networks
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 8                    Suixian      12.21
                                             31.65 km water networks     38.50 km water networks
      Shangqiu                               30,000 m3/day WTP           30,000 m3/day WTP
 9                     Xiayi        9.75
                                             59.38 km water networks     40.20 km water networks
 10                  Zhecheng       5.44     67.93 km water networks     32.10 km water networks
                                             30,000 m3/day WTP           30,000 m3/day WTP
 11                  Dengzhou      10.66
                                             88.77 km water networks     90 km water networks
                                             30,000 m3/day WTP 66.45 km 30,000 m3/day WTP
 12                    Xinye       14.56
                                             water networks             40.00 km water networks
      Nanyang
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 13                    Sheqi        9.82
                                             52.16 km water networks     33.40 km water networks
                                             25,000 m3/day WTP           25,000 m3/day WTP
 14                   Xichuan       3.00
                                             45.67 km water networks     26.60 km water networks
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 15                    Xincai       7.31
                                             56.58 km water networks     22.50 km water networks
                                             30,000 m3/day WTP           30,000 m3/day WTP
 16 Zhumadian         Suiping      10.89
                                             67.94 km water networks     81.50 km water networks
                                             30,000 m3/day WTP           30,000 m3/day WTP
 17                    Runan       11.02
                                             67.96 km water networks     64.00 km water networks
 18 Xinyang           Luoshan       9.97     54.91 km water networks     152.80 km water networks
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 19                   Shenqiu      13.31
                                             68.84 km water networks     75 km water networks
      Zhoukou
                                             20,000 m3/day WTP           20,000 m3/day WTP
 20                  Xiangcheng    10.11
                                             73.00 km water networks     49.70 km water networks




                                                21
 B   Wastewater Management             17.20    260.24 km of sewers         161.00km of sewers
 1   Kaifeng            Tongxu         1.39      79.71 km of sewers         25.90 km of sewers
 2   Pingdinshan        Baofeng        2.70     56.48 km of sewers          36.00 km of sewers
 3   Shangqiu           Suixian        3.66     17.98 km of sewers          18.00 km of sewers
 4   Nanyang             Xinya         2.70     32.90 km of sewers          33.00 km of sewers
 5   Zhumadian          Suiping        1.23     25.87 km of sewers          24.00 km of sewers
 6   Xinyang            Luoshan        5.52     47.30 km of sewers          24.10 km of sewers
                                                445,000 m3/day WTP          445,000 m3/day WTP
     Total                            222.51    1209.30 km water networks   1286.50 km water networks
                                                260.24 km of sewers         161.00 km of sewers



Table 2.3. Comparison of project outputs by component.
                                                                   At            At          Actual
No                    Output Description
                                                                Appraisal   Restructuring   Completed
 A   Water Supply
     Number of county towns benefitted from the
 1                                                                    37         20               20
     expansion and improvement of water supply services.
     Cubic meters/day of water treatment plants proposed
 2                                                               790,000      445,000         445,000
     for expansion and construction.
     Km of water distribution networks proposed for
 3                                                                2,400        1,209.3           1286.5
     rehabilitation and/or construction.
 B   Wastewater Management
     Number of county towns benefitted from the
4.   expansion and improvement of wastewater                          11         6                 6
     management services.
     Cubic meters/day of wastewater treatment plants
 5                                                               105,000         0                 0
     proposed for construction.
     Km of sewers proposed for rehabilitation and/or
 6                                                                    440       260.2             161
     construction.
 C   Technical Assistance
     Provision of technical assistance to carry out Regional                                    Not
 7                                                                    1          1
     Planning for Small Town Development.                                                   Implemented
     Provision of technical assistance to carry out Water                                       Not
 8                                                                    1          1
     Sector Regulations.                                                                    Implemented
     Provision of technical assistance to carry out Project                                   Partially
 9                                                                    1          1
     Management.                                                                            Implemented
     Provision of technical assistance to carry out Utility                                   Partially
10                                                                    4          4
     Staff Training.                                                                        Implemented
     Provision of technical assistance to carry out Detailed                                  Partially
11                                                                    1          1
     Engineering Design and Design Review.                                                  Implemented




                                                     22
Table 2.4. Outcome Indicators
   Outcome Indicators          Stage      2005     2006   2007    2008      2009      2010     2011     2012

                             Appraisal    1,550   1,550   1,516 1,921       2,569     3,191    4,202    4,202
1. No of people with
access to improved water
                              Revised      847     850     835    1,062     1,426     1,772    2,351    2,360
supply in project towns.
(in 1,000)
                              Actual        -      973    1,074 1,204       1,351     1,479    1,769    2,169

                             Appraisal     364     364     364     445      594       743      811       811
2. No of people with
access to waste water
                              Revised      249     249     250     306      410       514      562       563
management services in
project towns. (in 1,000)
                              Actual        -      297     321     388      410       457      604       697

                             Appraisal    -2.3     -1.1    0.2    12.8       32       57.6     92.8     110.4
3. Aggregate net profit
after tax of participating    Revised     -1.41   -0.68   0.12    7.94      19.91     35.90    58.11    69.34
WUCs. (in RMB Million)
                              Actual        -     -7.40   -8.78   -9.99     -8.63     -9.44    -9.58    -5.58


Table 2.5. Status of compliance with covenants
  Project                       Description of Covenant                             Due Date           Status
 Agreement
 Reference
Article 2,       Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the        Not later than         Not
Section 2.03     Bank, a plan for continued achievement of the objectives     December 31,           complied
(b) (i)          of the Project.                                              2013
Schedule 2,      Prepare, under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the        Commencing             Partially
Para 4(b)        Bank, and furnish to the Bank by March 30 and                on March 30,           complied
                 September 30 of each year semi-annual reports of the         2007                   with
                 results of monitoring and evaluation activities with
                 respect to the EMP (including monitoring the safety of
                 the Project Dams) and RAP.
Schedule 2,      Furnish to the Bank a time-bound action plan, prepare in     December 31,           Partially
Para 8           accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to the       2006                   complied
                 Bank (including actions to reduce cost related to                                   with
                 inefficiencies), to improve its financial performance.
Schedule 2,      Prepare, under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the        About June 30,         Partially
Para 9 (c)       Bank, and furnish to the Bank a mid-term report, on the      2009                   complied
                 progress achieved in carting out of the Project.                                    with




                                                    23
Table 2.6. Comparison of Project Targeted and Actual Outputs.
                          Output Description                                At          Actual
                                                                         Appraisal     Completed
Water Supply

Number of county towns benefitted from the expansion and                    37             20
improvement of water supply services.
M3/d of water treatment plants proposed for expansion and                 790,000        445,000
construction.
Km of water distribution networks proposed for rehabilitation and/or       2,400         1286.2
construction.
Wastewater Management

Number of county towns benefitted from the expansion and                    11             6
improvement of wastewater management services.
M3/d of wastewater treatment plants proposed for construction.            105,000          0

Km of sewers proposed for rehabilitation and/or construction.              440            161

Technical Assistance

Provision of technical assistance to carry out Regional Planning for        1        Not Implemented
Small Town Development.
Provision of technical assistance to carry out Water Sector                 1        Not Implemented
Regulations.
Provision of technical assistance to carry out Project Management.          1           Partially
                                                                                      Implemented
Provision of technical assistance to carry out Utility Staff Training.      4           Partially
                                                                                      Implemented
Provision of technical assistance to carry out Detailed Engineering         1           Partially
Design and Design Review.                                                             Implemented




                                                      24
Table 2.7. Status of Compliance with Covenants.
  Project                     Description of Covenant                        Due Date        Status
 Agreement
 Reference
Article 2,     Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the      Not later than   Not
Section 2.03   Bank, a plan for continued achievement of the objectives   December 31,     complied
(b) (i)        of the Project.                                            2013
Schedule 2,    Prepare, under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the      Commencing       Partially
Para 4(b)      Bank, and furnish to the Bank by March 30 and              on March 30,     complied
               September 30 of each year semi-annual reports of the       2007             with
               results of monitoring and evaluation activities with
               respect to the EMP (including monitoring the safety of
               the Project Dams) and RAP.
Schedule 2,    Furnish to the Bank a time-bound action plan, prepare in   December 31,     Partially
Para 8         accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to the     2006             complied
               Bank (including actions to reduce cost related to                           with
               inefficiencies), to improve its financial performance.
Schedule 2,    Prepare, under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the      About June 30,   Partially
Para 9 (c)     Bank, and furnish to the Bank a mid-term report, on the    2009             complied
               progress achieved in carting out of the Project.                            with




                                                 25
                    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
               CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project


3.1        Economic Analysis
1.       The economic evaluation approach is set out in OP/BP, Handbook on Economic
Analysis of Investment Operation. At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out to
assess the economic return. The three selected counties (Yiyang, Suixian, and Weishi)
were analyzed in PAD. The same methodology was applied at project completion to re-
assess the economic return of project activities in the three counties.

2.        Methodology. Information comparison for the three selected counties is listed in
table below. Estimated annual growth rates of population in Yiyang and Weishi are close
to actual. Estimated annual growth rate of population in Suixian is higher than actual.

Table 3.1. Comparison on Information of the Three Selected Counties
                            At appraisal                                       At Completion
             GDP per                                            GDP per
                             Population in downtown
County        Capita                                             Capita           Population in County
                                      ('000)
              (2004)                                             (2011)
                                                Annual                                              Annual
              RMB          2004      2010                        RMB           2006      2011
                                              growth rate                                         growth rate
Yiyang         3,469        118       140          3%            24,904        607       695          2.7%
Suixian        4,122         59       85           6%            15,236        745       858          2.9%
Weishi         5,729        135       160          3%            24,642        792       941          3.5%
Tongxu         5,343                                             24,792        578       629          1.7%
Suiping        2,631                                             15,547        476       553          3.0%
Note 1. Data at completion and Per Capita GDP of Tongxu and Suiping are sourced from Henan Statistical Yearbook
(2007, 2012).
2. Yiyang and Weishi were dropped from World Bank Loan Project. 2. In economic analysis, Tongxu and Suiping
replaced Yiyang and Weishi in term of GDP per capita level.


3.       Willingness-to-pay (WTP) for improved water. At appraisal, Social Impact
Assessment Team did social survey and willingness-to-pay analysis. At completion, the
ICR adopted some conclusion and updated WTP results. The main results of the WTP
analysis are:(i) self-supplied consumers are expected to gradually switch to an improved
water supply because their WTP is on average significantly higher than the future level of
water tariffs; and (ii) gradual substitution to an improved supply is expected to occur
even in poor counties in the central government’s list.

4.       Table 2 below provides a summary of the results. The economic returns of
Suixian are on the same level of appraisal. The difference is that population growth rate
in downtown is lower than what was estimated at appraisal.



                                                        26
Table 3.2. Comparison on Economic Internal Rate of Return
                                                         Economic Internal Rate of Return
                                                  At Appraisal                      At Completion
          Yiyang*                                    25.8%                          21.9%(Suiping)
          Suixian                                    25.0%                              12.5%
          Weishi*                                    33.6%                         31.1% (Tongxu)
*Note: 1. Yiyang and Weishi were dropped from World Bank Loan Project. 2. In economic analysis,
Tongxu and Suiping replaced Yiyang and Weishi in term of GDP per capita level. 3. Benefit was calculated
based on population served by component.


3.2        Financial Analysis
5.       Water Tariffs. Current water tariffs are listed in table below. Most counties have
increased tariffs during 2006-2013. Water tariffs comparison is listed in Table 3.
Generally, the range of water tariffs increase is different from that in PAD. At appraisal,
the median tariff value was expected to increase from RMB1.2 to RMB1.6/m3 for
residential, from RMB1.5 to RMB1.9/m3 for institutional, from RMB1.6 to RMB2.1/m3
for industries, from RMB1.7 to RMB2.4/m3 for commercial, and from RMB2.1 to
RMB3.1/m3 for special commercial. At completion, the median tariff values are
RMB1.35/m3 for residential, RMB1.55/m3 for institutional, RMB1.60/m3 for industrial,
RMB2.00/m3 for commercial and RMB2.60 for special commercial.

Table 3.3. Current Water Tariff (RMB/m3)
Category            Residential   Institutional        Industrial      Commercial          Special
                                                                                         Commercial
Qixian                  1.1            1.5                1.5                2                1.9
Tongxu                  1              1.6                1.6               1.7               2.1
Mengjin                 2.3            2.8                3.2               3.2               5.2
Sheqi                  1.35           1.55               1.55               1.8               3.5
Xichuan                 1.4            1.5                1.7               2.3               2.6
Xinye                  1.35           1.45                1.6                2                2.6
Baofeng                 1.3            1.5                1.5               1.8               2.8
Jiaxian                0.94           1.31               1.41              1.41                 /
Lushan                  1.1           1.42               1.42               2.5                 5
Dengzhou                1.6           2.45               2.45              2.45                 8
Suixian                1.21           1.58               1.68              1.87               2.3
Xiayi                   1.7             2                  2                 2                  4
Zhecheng               1.21           1.58               1.68              1.87               2.3
Fengqiu                 1.2            1.3                1.3               1.4               1.7




                                                  27
Luoshan              1.3                   1.5                1.5                   2                  2.4
Shenqiu              1.9                   2.1                2.3                  2.3                 4.6
Runan                1.85                  2.85              2.85                  2.85                    4
Suiping              1.35                  1.45               1.5                  1.7                 2.1
Xincai               1.55                  1.9                1.9                  1.9                 2.6
Xiangcheng           2.2                   2.75              2.75                  2.75                    5


Table 3.4 Water Tariff Comparison (RMB/m3)
                                 Planned At appraisal                               At completion
      Category              Tariff range          Median tariff            Tariff range      Median tariff
Residential                   1.2-3.2                  1.6                  0.94-2.30                1.35
Institutional                 1.6-3.9                  1.9                  1.30-2.85                1.55
Industrial                    1.2-4.0                  2.1                  1.30-3.20                1.60
Commercial                    1.7-6.0                  2.4                  1.40-3.20                2.00
Special Commercial            1.8-15.0                 3.1                  1.70-2.50                2.60


6.       Wastewater Tariff. At appraisal, eleven counties have sewer collection and
WWT plants. Wastewater charges were to be set at RMB0.65/m3 for residential users,
RMB0.8/m3 for institution, industrial and commercial users, and RMB1.0/m3 for special
commercial users. In term of the Notice on Efforts to Increasing Urban Sewage
Treatment Fee Collection to Promoting Development of Urban Sewage Treatment Sector
issued by Henan Provincial Government, average wastewater tariff was increased to
RMB0.8/m3 since January 1, 2005. The document is the latest and effective document on
wastewater tariff. It is very obvious that current wastewater tariff level is lower than what
is expected at appraisal.

Table 3.5. Current Wastewater Tariff (RMB/m3)
     Category               Residential             Special Sector and Self-service             Other
                                                         water supply facility

     RMB/m3                     0.65                                1.00                            0.80




                                                       28
                                Table 3.6 Financial Analysis Result
                                              FIRR                  Resident Tariff        Resident Tariff
    No.        County          At appraisal      At Completion      Planned in PAD            Current
           Water Supply
     1         Tongxu             10.96%              2.28%               1.4                    1
     2         Qixian             9.90%               3.21%               1.5                    1.1
     3         Mengjin            16.39%              7.43%                2                     2.3
     4         Baofeng            14.49%                  <0              1.4                    1.3
     5         Jiaxian            14.09%                  <0              1.56                  0.94
     6         Lushan             14.70%                  <0               2                     1.3
     7         Fengqiu            14.58%              4.54%               1.5                    1.2
     8         Suixian            10.17%                  <0              1.8                   1.21
     9          Xiayi             14.40%              9.39%               1.7                    1.7
    10        Zhecheng            12.66%              5.86%               1.4                   1.21
    11        Dengzhou            10.12%              4.51%               1.8                    1.6
    12          Xinye             9.57%                   <0              1.55                  1.35
    13          Sheqi             10.01%                  <0              1.55                  1.35
    14        Xichuan             11.69%              12.30%              1.55                   1.4
    15         Xincai             13.62%              2.57%               1.9                   1.55
    16         Suiping            10.36%              4.18%               1.6                   1.35
    17         Runan              10.71%              8.05%               1.58                  1.85
    18         Shenqiu            14.39%              6.34%               1.9                    1.9
    19       Xiangcheng           14.88%              6.93%               2.5                    2.2
    20        Luoshan             11.14%              6.68%               1.8                    1.3
                WWT
     1         Baofeng            5.99%               0.09%               0.85                  0.65


7.        Financial internal rate of return (FIRR) was re-reviewed for the water supply
and wastewater components for each county. At appraisal, FIRRs for water components
are mostly above 10%, ranging from 9.6%-17.8%, and those for wastewater components
are above 5%, ranging from 5.1%-6.1%. At completion, FIRRs, for water components1
are listed in the table below which are calculated at following assumptions: i) tariff will


1
    The components only refer to the component not dropped from World Bank Loan Project.




                                                     29
be increased by 30%, 20% and 10%per five year; ii) all plant will fully running at the 5th-
7th year after completion; and iii) investment cost is the same as the level at appraisal.
FIRRs are lower than what was forecasted at appraisal and the main reasons are: i) most
counties' tariff are much lower than the level at appraisal; ii) currently, there are a lot of
labors and staff employed for project operation and maintenance. Most company
employed over 100 staff. It is necessary to improve staff's work efficiency; iii) low
collection efficiency for water tariff (namely, high leakage rate). The collection
efficiency are mostly lower than 70%, ranging from 50%-75%; and iv) actual investment
costs of components are higher than cost estimate at appraisal. These components apply
to Jiaxian, Xinye, Sheqi, Shenqiu and Xiangcheng.

Projected Financial Performance of WUCs
8.      At appraisal, financial projections of participating WUCs were prepared. Two
companies were discussed in details in PAD. They were Tongxu County Water Supply
Company and Yuanyang County Wastewater Company. Yuanyang component was
dropped from World Bank Loan Project and no information on company was available.

9.        Tongxu County Water Supply Company. The proposed component isn't put in
running in 2012. In 2012, company's revenue reached RMB3.86 million, operating cost
was RMB2.87, profit before tax was RMB369,784 and net profit was 247,756. Collection
efficiency is about 67%. At appraisal, it was expected that revenues would increase
during the first four years of operation and stabilize at RMB22 million annually. Net
profit before taxes would be above RMB3 million in the first year and with a net profit of
25% of the revenue. Based on current collect efficiency and operation ratio, it is very
difficult to reach a revenue of RMB22 million and make profit.

10.      The total asset value of Tongxu County Water Supply Company was RMB74.51
million and the debt was RMB69.88 million in 2012. The debt/equity ratio (ratio of long
term debt to total debt and equity) was 79%. It is higher than expected satisfactory level
of 60% at the start of appraisal.

11.     If collection efficiency can't be improved and operation and management cost
remains high, the net inflow of the Company will not be high as RMB 6 million annually
as projected, from year six onwards at appraisal. Debt service coverage ratio in 2012 was
4.13 which are satisfied with the ratio of above 3 at appraisal.

Fiscal Capacity Analysis
12.       Some counties were dropped from the project and there are 20 counties at
completion. At appraisal, GDP per capita was used to measure economic strength and
outstanding explicit debt over revenue was used for the debt burden (not total debt, since
data on contingent liabilities are not available). The twenty counties' per capita GDP are
listed in Table 7. It is very outstanding that GDP per capita of each county were
improved greatly but most counties are still below the national level of RMB 35,083.




                                             30
Table 3.7County GDP Per Capita (RMB/year)
             GDP per             GDP per                  GDP per                GDP per
 County                County                   County               County
              capita              capita                   capita                 capita
2011
 Qixian       18636    Jiaxian    20190     Dengzhou       17836     Shenqiu      14563
 Tongxu       24792    Fengqiu    11359         Suixian    15236    Xiangcheng    17836
 Mengjin      33641    Xichuan    21396     Zhecheng       15547      Runan       14407
 Baofeng      41180     Sheqi     15214          Xiayi     14555     Suiping      23560
 Lushan       11531    Xinye      31446         Luoshan    21451      Xincai      13833
2003(at appraisal)
 Qixian        N/A     Jiaxian    5,280     Dengzhou       5,940     Shenqiu      2,664
 Tongxu        5,366   Fengqiu    N/A           Suixian    4,122    Xiangcheng    4,757
 Mengjin       5,285   Xichuan    5,365     Zhecheng       2,367      Runan       2,687
 Baofeng       8,382    Sheqi     3,779          Xiayi     3,056     Suiping      5,446
 Lushan        3,946   Xinye      7,626         Luoshan    3,946      Xincai      3,146




                                           31
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
           CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project

(a) Task Team members
Names                     Title                           Unit    Responsibility
Lending
Songsu Choi               Task Team Leader                SASDU   Former TTL
Yonghui Fan               Consultant                      EASUR   Financial Analyst
Vellet E. Fernandes       Program Assistant               EASIN   Program Assistant
Shunong Hu                Sr Water Engineer               EASCS   Water Engineer
Hubert Mathieu R. Jenny   Sr Municipal Engineer           EASUR   Engineer
Takuya Kamata             Task Team Leader                ECCUZ   Task Team Leader
Xiaoping Li               Sr Procurement Spec.            AFTPW   Procurement
Xiaofeng Li               Operations Analyst              UDRUR   Operations Analyst
Elisa Muzzini             Sr Economist                    SASDU   Economist
Margaret Png              Lead Counsel                    LEGLE   Lawyer
Chongwu Sun               Sr Environmental Spec.          EASCS   Environmental Safeguards
Yan Zhang                 Sr Urban Economist              EASPS   Economist
YoulanZou                 Consultant                      EASCS   Resettlement Specialist
Supervision/ICR
KnudBitschLauritzen       Consultant                      EASCS   Utilities Financial Analyst
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Spec.   EASFM   Financial Management
Vellet E. Fernandes       Program Assistant               EASIN   Program Assistant
Jingrong He               Procurement Spec.               EASR2   Procurement Spec.
Shunong Hu                Task Team Leader                EASCS   Task Team Leader
Yoonhee Kim               Sr Urban Economist              LCSDU   Urban Economist
Xiaoping Li               Sr Procurement Spec.            AFTPW   Procurement
Zheng Liu                 Procurement Spec.               EASR2   Procurement
Edouard Henri Motte       Consultant                      EASCS   Urban Engineer
Claudio Purificato        Consultant                      CEUPP   Water and Sanitation Spec.
Xin Ren                   Environmental Spec.             EASCS   Environmental Safeguards
Mei Wang                  Consultant                      EASCS   Economist
Songling Yao              Sr Social Development Spec.     EASCS   Social Safeguards
Fang Zhang                Financial Management Spec.      EASFM   Financial Management
Meixiang Zhou             Social Development Spec.        EASCS   Social Safeguards




                                                   32
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

    Stage of Project Cycle                            US$ Thousands
                             No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
FY03                                   0.48                 2.75
FY04                               15.57                   73.38
FY05                               37.17                  121.59
FY06                               63.69                  334.99
Total:                            116.91                  532.71
Supervision/ICR
FY07                               19.30                   89.90
FY08                               13.70                   72.66
FY09                                   9.27                58.68
FY10                               11.65                   80.05
FY11                               10.63                   46.33
FY12                               11.63                   68.80
FY13                                   6.20                23.27
FY14                                   2.13                14.85
Total:                             84.51                  454.54
Total:                                                    987.25




                                  33
                      Annex 5. Resettlement Implementation
              CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project

1.       As appraisal, the project supported (a) 37 water supply schemes (including the
plants and water resource facilities) required that 1,005 mu of farmland be acquired,
averaging 27 mu per scheme; and (b) four wastewater treatment schemes and 10
wastewater collection schemes needed 206 mu of land, or an average 41 mu for each. All
areas involved farmland in the suburbs of the county towns. The water distribution
system and sewage networks occupied farmland temporarily during construction, for
which farmers were compensated for income reduction.

2.       At project mid-term restructuring, many participating counties were dropped or
decided to leave the project as discussed before. Approximately 660 mu land was
permanently acquired mostly for water plant construction and wells for clean water
sources. In total 713 households and 2,834 people were affected and adequately
compensated. A total of 300m2 house were demolished and affected 4 households with 15
people, see details in the Table 5.1.

Table 5.1. Land permanently acquired by the project 19 subprojects
                                Actually acquired     Households       Number of people
No.   Subproject
                                   land (mu)           affected           affected
 1    Dengzhou Water supply           72.12                 87                  348
 2    Xinye Water supply              31.76                 53                  202
 3    Sheqi Water supply              10.69                 10                   40
 4    Baofeng Water supply               20                 14                   53
 5    Jia County Water supply            22                 15                   65
 6    Lushan Water supply                24                130                  520
 7    Mengjin Water supply               24                 36                  104
 8    Qiufeng Water supply             38.8                 50                  209
 9    Qi County Water supply             47                 41                  152
10    Tongxu Water supply             21.59                 49                  200
11    Sui County Water supply            40                 22                   91
12    Xiayi Water supply                 60                 23                   95
13    Zhecheng Water Supply            37.5                 30                  122
14    Xiangcheng Water Supply            44                 41                  172
15    Shenqiu Water Supply            22.77                 17                   72
16    Runan Water Supply                 30                 33                  134
17    Suiping Water Supply             42.6                 23                   91
18    Xincai Water Supply              41.9                 22                   93
19    Luoshan Water Supply               14                  7                   29
20    Xichuan Water Supply               15                 10                   42
      Total                          659.73                713                2,834




                                          34
3.      Land compensation fees were conducted according to different types of land and
the local resettlement policy. In order to meet the requirements of the affected persons,
some compensation standards were improved during land acquisition and resettlement. A
comparison between the planned and actual land acquisition and resettlement is shown in
Table 5.2.

Comparison between Planned and Actual Resettlement Activities under the Project
                  Permanent          Housing          Temporary         Affected          Total Cost
                    Land            Demolition           Land            People            (RMB
 Description      Acquisition         (m2)            Acquisition                          million)
                    (Mu)                               (Hectare)
                  P        A        P       A         P       A         P        A        P        A
Water supply
                 1,005   644.95         -   300           -     80          -   1,041    97.67    36.47
Component
Wastewater
                  206           -       -        -        -         -       -        -        -        -
Component
Total:           1,211 644.95           -   300           -     80          -   1,041    97.67    36.47
Legend: P = Planned; A = Actual

4.       The original cost estimate for land acquisition and resettlement was RMB97.67
million. The updated cost is RMB36.47 million, or RMB61.20million less after all has
been fully settled.

5.       In 2007, the Resettlement Research Center of Hohai University was contracted
by the PPMO to carry out external resettlement monitoring. Four resettlement external
monitoring reports were prepared from March 2007 to March 2012. The project was
under mid-term restructuring in 2011.In 2013, the 5th monitoring and evaluation was
done for the project completion evaluation.




                                                 35
       Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
           CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project


Project Objective & Quality of Project Design and Preparation

1.     Project Development Objective. The project objective is to help create or
expand the water supply and wastewater management services and to improve the
planning, regulatory and operational capacity of the sector institutions, thereby helping to
improve the living conditions and the economic growth of participating county towns
with relatively low incomes. During Project implementation, some of the Project scope
was modified, and the general scope of the Project reduced. The remaining
subcomponents were implemented based on the Project development objectives.

2.      Project Change. Originally the Project had 42 subcomponents including 37 water
supply subcomponents and 5 wastewater treatment subcomponents, individually
distributed in 38 project counties. Up to the end of Project, only 21 subcomponents had
been included comprising 20 water supply subcomponents and 1 wastewater
subcomponents. These involved 20 project counties. The remaining subcomponents were
deleted from the scope of the Project. Table 6.1 below is the summary of original list and
the deleted subcomponents.

Table 6.1List of Components and Subprojects
     City                                       Sub-components
 A.Water Supply
 Kaifeng       1 Weishi(Dropped); 2 Tongxu; 3 Lankao(Dropped); 4 Kaifeng(Dropped); 5Qixian
 Luoyang       6 Mengjin; 7 Yiyang(Dropped); 8 Songxian(Dropped)
 Pingdingshan 9 Baofeng; 10 Jiaxian; 11 Lushan
 Xinxiang      12 Xinxiang(Dropped)，13 Yuanyang(Dropped); 14 Fengqiu
 Xuchang        15 Xiangcheng(Dropped)
 Sanmenxia      16 Shanxian(Dropped); 17 Yima(Dropped)
 Shangqiu       18 Suixian; 19 Xiayi; 20 Zhecheng
 Nanyang        21 Dengzhou; 22 Xinye; 23 Sheqi; 24 Xichuan
 Zhumadian      25 Queshan(Dropped); 26 Xincai; 27 Xiping(Dropped); 28 Zhengyang(Dropped); 29
                Suiping; 30 Runan
 Zhoukou        31 Shenqiu; 32 Xiangcheng
 Xinyang        33 Xixian(Dropped); 34 Luoshan; 35 Yangshan(Dropped)36 Xinyang(Dropped);
 Jiaozuo        37 Mengzhou(Dropped)
 B．Wastewater Management
 Luoyang        38 Mengjin(Dropped); 39 Songxian(Dropped)
 Pingdingshan   40 Baofeng
 Xinxiang       41 Yuanyang(Dropped)
 Xinyang        42 Huangchuan(Dropped)
 C.Technical Assistance
 Province       43 TA and Training



                                              36
3.      Amendments to the Project and Loan Agreements were signed on November 20,
2012. Within the Loan Agreement, 21 subcomponents remained, and as a result the
percentage of expenditures to be financed was modified. In the Project Agreement, the
project KPIs were updated.

4.     The original completion date of the loan was June 30, 2013, which was not
change, despite a request by the Project Management Office to extend the loan by 6
months. The Bank granted the project an extension of the final disbursement completion
date by 4 months to October 31, 2013.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

5.      Outcome Achievement of Objective. The project objective is to help innovation
within the sector; to create or expand water supply and wastewater management services;
and to improve the planning, regulatory, and operational capacity of government; thereby
helping to improve the living conditions and the economic growth of the participating
county towns with relatively low incomes.

6.     The Project comprises 20 water supply subprojects, including 15 new water works,
with a total water supply capacity of 395,000 tons per day, and total of 1286.4 km new
water distribution pipelines. The total Project serviced a population reaching to 2,373,000,
providing them with safe and reliable drinking water supply. The Project included one
wastewater subproject, and six subprojects with construction of drainage pipeline
networks. The new sewage pipeline network is in total 161.1 km long, providing new
wastewater facilities to a total service population of 650,000 people.

7.      Project Development Objective Indicators. During the Project’s Appraisal, the
Project’s Development Objective Monitoring Indicators were set. However, since 21
subprojects dropped from the project, the indicators were revised during the Mid Term
Review and updated after restructuring. The revised indicators began to use the figures of
the populations which had new facilities in the project towns, and those which had new
wastewater treatment facilities. These indicators were basically satisfied during the
course of the Project. In summary, therefore, it was considered that the Project
Development Objectives were generally met. It was noted, however, after-tax-profit
figures of the water companies have not yet reached the results expected.

Cost and Financing

8.      The total project costs at the time of the appraisal was US$ 335 million, whereas
on completion has out-turned at US$ 204 million. The total completion cost of the Project
id therefore 61% of the estimated project cost at appraisal.

9.     The necessary counterpart funds were provided through a mixture of State Bonds,
the resources of the Municipal Governments and the implementing agencies. The final
financing split is 71.8% (RMB910.6million) relating to the World Bank Loan and 28.2%
(RMB358.1million) relating to local funding. This compares with the 54.5%
(RMB1.30billion) of World Bank Loan to 45.5% (RMB1.09 billion) of local funding
determined at the time of the Appraisal.


                                            37
Sustainability

10.    The Project is judged overall to be sustainable. The sustainability of the Project
needs to be viewed in terms of (a) whether an appropriate institutional arrangement has
been set up to provide for managerial autonomy and sustainability;(b) the ability to
operate and maintain the facilities; and (c) financial sustainability. The overall Project’s
sustainability can be measured against these criteria.

Bank and Borrower Performance

11.    World Bank Performance. The World Bank’s performance during the phases of
project formulation, identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation for the
project has been satisfactory. The diligence of World Bank managers and staff was
widely appreciated by all the implementing agencies. The work of the World Bank
Beijing Office was also highly appreciated in terms of instructions to Henan PPMO on
World Bank procedures, review, comments, and approval of bidding documents. A
number of World Bank Task Managers have worked on this Project, and they have made
valuable contributions to the Project’s implementation.

12.      Borrower’s Performance. The National and Municipal Government’s
commitment to the project remained strong and supportive during all phases of the
project. The PPMO and PIUs took active management functions throughout the project.
Each component entity designated necessary resources to execute their respective
components. The Municipal Government has provided all the component implementing
units with sufficient counterpart funding. Local governments in the project
districts/counties have strongly supported construction activities at all the component
sites. The treated water supply projects have required approvals and coordination from
district/county agencies for the laying of utility pipelines in busy city streets. Government
support is also acknowledged for successful implementation of the project-related land
acquisition and resettlement.

13.     The county-level staff arrangements, their inputs and training were insufficient,
being insufficiently considered for the project appraisal phase.

Lessons Learned

14.     Highlights of Lessons Learnt from the Project. The project, in general, was
successfully implemented and most of its original objectives were achieved. The entire
implementation process has been a valuable experience for all the agencies involved, and
capacity building of the PIUs has been achieved that will help them with their future
projects. The Bank has not just simply helped finance the Project, but has also introduced
advanced management practices for project implementation and enterprise operation,
such as modern project management, international practices for bidding and contracting,
construction supervision, performance assessment, and the completion evaluation.
Significant capacity building has been achieved in procurement, contract and project
management, operation and maintenance of the newly built facilities, environmental
monitoring, and financial management. The Bank’s project implementation rules and



                                             38
procedures on procurement, contract management and construction management were
well implemented, and have been broadly accepted as fair procedures, giving greater
assurance of a satisfactory outcome.

15.     Suggestions for Future Projects. Further training and guidance could be
provided to the PMO in preparing the Terms of Reference for recruiting Project
consultants. For the locals it was their first such project. Examples of TORs from other
similar projects in China and internationally could have been shared with the PMO.

16.     In view of the special characteristics of the small cities project, and the
inexperience of the small towns and design institutes, more resources and manpower
might have been provided during the project preparation period, especially technical
assistance and consulting services to support the planning and designs.

17.     In view of the insufficient knowledge and skills of the staff of the PIUs in project
management and implementation, extensive training to strengthen the PIU’s knowledge
on World Bank’s procedures and methods could have been provided. The focus for such
training could be on project procedures, bidding, land acquisition, resettlement,
safeguards and engineering management.

18.     The percentage of expenditure to be financed was increased from 66% to 95%
after the project mid-term review. This greatly relieved the pressure on counterpart
funding and sped up the progress of project implementation. As issues relating to the
shortage of counterpart funding may be common, it is recommended that the
disbursement ratio of the loans for the direct costs of the project be increased during the
time of Project’s Appraisal.




                                            39
              Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
       CHINA: Henan Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project


1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Loan Agreement
3. Project Agreement
4. Resettlement Action Plans
5. Environmental Impact Assessment
6. Environmental Management Plan
7. Mission Aide Memoires and BTO Reports
8. Implementation Status Reports
9. Semi-Annual Progress Report
10. Amendment of Loan Agreement on 20 November 2012
11. Amendment of Project Agreement on 20 November 2012
12. Borrower’s ICR Report




                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 34329R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I I I
                                                 111°                                                 112°                                  113°                               114°                                           115°                                                   116°         I                                                                     117°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HENAN TOWNS WATER SUPPLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
36°                                                                                                                                                                                          Anyang                                                                                                                                                                            36°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          )                                                                                                                      N PARTICIPATING COUNTIES
                                                                                                                                                                                        Hebei                                                                                         ver




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N COUNTIES DROPPED FROM THE PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GIr I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                      SHANXI                                                                                                                                                                   llo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (Ye




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Puyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g                                                                      na




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  an                                                                                                                 PROJECT TOWNS*:                          PROJECT TOWNS*:                                           PROJECT TOWNS*:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KAIFENG MUNICIPALITY:                   XUCHANG MUNICIPALITY:                                         ZHUMADIAN MUNICIPALITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hua                     di
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                            1   Weishi                               15 Xiangcheng                                             25     Queshan
                                                                                                                                                                          XINXIANG                                                   Jin                                                                                                                                             2   Tongxu                                                                                         26     Xincai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Xian                                                                                                                                                                                                             SANMENXIA MUNICIPALITY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3   Lankao                                                                                         27     Xiping




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16 Shanxian
                                                                                                                                                                          Xinxiang                                                                                                                                                                                                   4   Kaifeng                                                                                        28     Zhengyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17 Yima




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                             Jiaozuo                    12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5   Qixian                                                                                         29     Suiping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHANDONG                                                                                                 LUOYANG MUNICIPALITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANGQIU MUNICIPALITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18 Suixian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30     Runan
35°
                                                                                            iv e
                                                                                                r)              JIAOZHOU                     Qin
                                                                                                                                                 H                                                             14                                                                                                                                                              35°   6 Mengjin                                19 Xiayi                                                     ZHOUKOU MUNICIPALITY:
                                                                                        R                                                             e                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7 Yiyang                                                                                           31 Shenqiu
                                                                                   ow
                                                                                                                                                                                      13 Yuanyang                   Fengqiu                                                                                                                                                                                                   20 Zhecheng
                                                                                  ll                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8 Songxian                                                                                         32 Xiangcheng
                                                                               (Ye                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NANYANG MUNICIPALITY:
                                                            Huang He                                                                   38    Mengzhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PINGDINGSHAN MUNICIPALITY:            21      Dengzhou                                                 XINYANG MUNICIPALITY:
                                                                                                 Mianchi        Mengjin                                                                                                                Lankao
                                                                 Sanmexia                                                       6                                                                         Kaifeng               3                                                                                                                                                    9 Baofeng                                22      Xinye                                             33     Minggan
                                          Shanxian                                                                                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                                                              10 Jiaxian                                                                                         34     Xixian
                                                                                                      17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23      Sheqi
                                                    16                                         Yima                                      Yanshi            ZHENGZHOU                                                                                   Minquan                                                                                              JIANGSU                  11 Lushan                                24      Xichuan                                           35     Luoshan
                                                                                                                 Luoyang                                                                               KAIFENG                                                                                                                                                                          XINXIANG MUNICIPALITY:                                                                          36     Yangshan
                                                                                                       Yiyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Huangchuan
                                                                                                                                                          H E N A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12 Xinxiang                                                                                        37
                                  Lingbao                                                                        7                                                                                         Qixian                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Suixian                 Ningling                    Liangyuan                                                                                13 Yuanyang                                                                                           JIAOZHOU MUNICIPALITY:
                                                                                                                                 Yichuan                                                                  Tongxu                                                                                                                                                                     14 Fengqiu                                                                                         38 Mengzhou
                                                                       He                                                                                                                    1    Weishi                                          18                    Shangqiu
                            SANMENXIA                              Luo                          LUOYANG                                                        Yi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gu




                                                                                                                                                                ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oH                                    SHANGQIU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       iji
                                                                                                                                                                     e                                                       e                             H                                                         19             Xiayi




                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXPRESSWAYS
                                                                                                               Songxian                          Ruzhou




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e
34°                                                                                                       8
                                            Lushi                                                                            i He                            Yu Xian     XUCHANG                                                                                    Zhecheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34°                                                     EXPRESSWAYS UNDER
                                                                                                                        Beiru                                                                                                                Taikang 20                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                              10                      Xuchang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jia
                                                                                                                                                               Jiaxian 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HIGHWAYS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lu H
                                                                              Luanchuan                                                           9       Baofeng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HIGHWAYS UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                         Xiangcheng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                            Xi
                                                                                                                                PINGDINGSHAN                                                                                   ZHOUKOU
                                                                 Ch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
                                                                    u                                                                     11 Lushan
                                                                        an                                                                                      Pingdingshan                                          Zhoukou                                                                                                                                                                                                          SELECTED CITIES

                                                                                                                                                                                  Luohe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                     Wuyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MUNICIPALITIES BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Xiangcheng                32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31
                                                                              Xixia                                                                                              Xiping 27                                                   Shenqiu                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ho
                                                                                                                      Yahekou
                                                                                                                                                          Fancheng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ng
                                                                                                                     Reservoir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    He
33°                                                       Xichuan 24                                                                                                           Suiping 29
                                                                                                     NANYANG
                                                                                                                                            23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ANHUI                                      33°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                            Sheqi                        ZHUMADIAN
                                                                                                               Nanyang              Wancheng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FEDERATION
                                                                                   Danjiangkou                                                                                                        30       Runan
                                                                                   Reservoir                                                                                  Zhumadian                             Ru          Pingyu
                                                                                                                         i He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEILONGJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      He
                                                                                                                                                                               Queshan       25
                                                                                                                       Ba




                                                                                                             Dengzhou                           Tanghe                                                                               Xincai 26                                                                                                                                                                MONGOLIA
                                                                                                     21
                                                                                                                                    He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JILIN
                                                                                                                                  ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                      28 Zhengyang
                                                                                                                                Ta




                                                                                                               Xinye      22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sea of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XINJIANG                                                       OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NG                          LIAONING                       Japan JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MO                                            D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                      i    H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              34 Xixian
                                                                                                                                                                                                           e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HEBEI                                    REP. OF
32°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yellow         KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                               Yangshan 36                                Luoshan                                                                                                                                              32°                                                                              SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  QINGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         35                       37       Huangchuan                                                                                                                                             GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                 Xinyang          Minggan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHAANXI     HENAN                                               East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                   HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                 33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XINYANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XIZANG                                                     HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SICHUAN
                                                                                                              Ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ZHEJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NG
                        0          25          50         75                 100                                nS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JIANGXI
                                                                                                                 hu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HUNAN
                                         KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                   i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUIZHOU                                         FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         National Capital
                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAIWAN                  PACIFIC
                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Province           YUNNAN
                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Boundaries                                   GUANGXI          GUANGDONG                                            OCEAN
      GSDPM
      Map Design Unit
                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         International
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HONG KONG SAR
                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MACAO SAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAO       VIETNAM
31°                           111°                                                      112°                                             113°                                    114°                                                                                                         116°                                                                                                            P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31°                                                          HAINAN                                               PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOVEMBER 2013
