Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20502
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(34830)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$42.5 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
N 100.0 = US$ 1.0
US$ 1.0 = N 100.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          -       Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC        -       ADP Executive Committee
APMEU        -       Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ARMTI        -       Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ATSF         -       Agricultural Technology Support Facility
CFA          -       Cooperative Financing Agency
CSA          -       Centralized Special Account
ERR          -       Economic Rate of Return
FACU         -       Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FADPEC       -       Federal Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
FDARD        -       Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
FGN          -       Federal Government of Nigeria
ICR          -       Implementation Completion Report
LGC          -       Local Government Council
MANR         -       Ministiy of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MEMP         -       Micro-watershed and Enviromnental Management Project
MTR          -       Mid-Term Review
MTRM         -       Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NARP         -       National Agricultural Research Project
NATSP        -       National Agricultural Technology Support Project
NFDP         -       National Fadama Development Project
NGO          -       Non-Governmental Organization
OED          -       Operations Evaluation Department
OFAR         -       On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCU          -       Projects Coordinating Unit
QAG          -       Quality Assurance Group
QTRM         -       Quarterly Technology Review Meeting
RAIDS        -       Rural HIV/AIDS
SOE          -       Statement of Expenditures
T & V        -       Training and Visit
UAES         -       Unified Agricultural Extension Services
WIA          -       Women in Agriculture
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:    Samuel Eremie



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          5
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                6
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    I I
6. Sustainability                                                                        13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       17
9. Partner Comments                                                                     18
10. Additional Information                                                              19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    2 1
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002140                                      Project Name: AGRIC TECH
Team Leader: Samuelwariboko Eremie                       TL Unit: AFMNG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: AGRIC TECH                                    L/C/TFNumber: 34830
Country/Department. NIGERIA                                             Region: Affica Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment; AE - Agricultural
Extension
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/04/90                                Effective: 08/15/92           06/08/93
Appraisal:  03/03/91                                 MTR: 11/15/94              03/20/97
Approval:  06/09/92                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Federal Republic of Nigeria/Federal Ministry of Agriculture - State Ministry of
Agriculture
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                  Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Anand Seth
Team Leader at ICR:   Samuel Wariboko Eremie                   Surjit Singh
ICR Primary Author:   Samuel Wanboko Eremie
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP) was to reorient and
improve the technology adaptation and extension activities of the Agricultural Development Projects
(ADPs) to ensure that: (a) the ADP adaptive research is aimed at the development of location-specific
technologies for sustainable intensification of the principal farming systems, wherever appropriate,



integrating messages from crops, livestock and agro-forestry research; and (b) the extension service is
unified to provide a better quality of cost-effective service to farmers of all categories, including women in
agriculture. The objective was important for the country at the time of appraisal, and in line with the
recommendations of the 1989 World Bank reports, Nigeria - Strategy for Agricultural Growth, and
Sub-Saharan Africa, From Crisis to Sustainable Growth. A Long Term Perspective, which emphasized
the need to strengthen the agricultural technology generation and dissemination systems to provide
appropriate recommendations for sustained growth. The choice of the ADPs as the implementing agencies
for the project was based on the belief by the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) that the Bank-assisted
ADP system would continue to provide the best means of addressing the needs of the rural agricultural
population. One major flaw in the objective was that it was more of a supply-driven statement of intentions
and it lacked clear indicators for measuring achievement. An attempt was made during the mid-term
review (MTR) to identify output indicators for the project components but no indicators were developed for
assessing the cost-effectiveness of the service or the project impact.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was not revised but restated, "to strengthen, in the states of Bauchi, Kano,
Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi, (and in a smaller way, in selected other states), the adaptation and
dissemination of location-specific, environmentally sound, agricultural technology to increase farm
productivity and production on a sustainable basis." No restructuring was required.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components and their costs were: (a) Agricultural Extension, US$26.7 M; (b) Adaptive
Research, US$7.1 M; (c) Animal Traction, US$4.9 M; (d) Agro-forestry and Soil and Water Management,
US$4.8 M; (e) Administration and Finance, US$3.3 M; (f) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, US$3.2
M; (g) Manpower Development and Training, US$1.2 M; and (h) Technology Support Facility, US$8.8
M. The components were reasonably related to the achievement of the project objective.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the components. However, following the MTR, fisheries extension was
added in most states and staff of the Animal Traction as well as Agro-forestry and Soil and Water
Management components were advised to work more closely with the Adaptive Research component for
greater synergy in technology adaptation. The number of states also increased from five to seven in 1996
without a formal revision of the estimated costs of the original components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. Although the objective of the project was consistent with
government and Bank priorities at the time of appraisal, it lacked monitorable impact indicators. Also, the
design of the project focused on improving only one public service for technology development and
dissemination rather than the whole system. This was in line with the Bank's policy at that time of a
uniform approach for planning, delivery and funding of technology services for all countries and situations,
a policy that ignored the potential contributions of other key actors, such as private input suppliers, other
public services and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Also, while it is to the credit of the designers
that project design was simplified by deleting the rural infrastructure and commercial services components
that attracted more attention in the ADPs in the past, some of the investment taken for granted in the design
ended up to be the key constraints to implementation. These include, the development of: (i) strategic
- 2 -



sector leadership to articulate policies for the balancing of public sector, private sector and organized
farmer inputs, to ensure linkages and coordination among relevant agencies, and to pilot alternative
mechanisms for the financing and delivery of technology services; and (ii) credit services and rural
infrastructure, the absence of which led to poor projcct performance. No rating of quality at entry has been
done by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for this project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory, with a re-estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 19
percent in the core states as compared with the appraisal estimate of 17 percent. The overall development
impact was positive and significant, in terms of the expansion in agricultural production, rural incomes,
enhanced food security and reduction of rural poverty that resulted from the widespread adoption of
improved technologies and cultural practices, especially in the fadama production areas. The project's
institution-building component was another important contributor to the above satisfactory outcome.
Through the training and technical assistance support to the ADPs, the project helped build a critical mass
in management of public knowledge systems, especially in delivery of extension services and successful
transfer of know-how in project preparation and implementation work. An important caveat, however, is
that the assessment of the economic outcome is based on limited data as many of the adoption rate and
impact studies done by the ADPs do not provide consistent data on project outcome. Against the
background of an unconducive macro-economic and sector policy environment, which included unaligned
exchange rate regimes and government control of fertilizer procurement and distribution that made the
commodity unavailable to farmers, the higher re-estimated ERR is a reflection of the success of some of the
technical components of the project. There was increased production due mainly to the adoption of
improved crop varieties on incremental land. The expected yield increases, however, were not achieved for
many crops because of the inadequate supplies of fertilizer whose distribution was controlled by
government. In Kebbi, for example, over the project period, the production of the major rainfed crops grew
between 10 percent and 25 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 12 percent. On the other
hand, the yields of the major rainfed crops in that state increased only by 10 percent to 20 percent, as
compared with the appraisal estimate of 50 percent to 75 percent.
Wherever the farmers adopted the improved practices disseminated by the project using the required inputs,
usually obtained through special distribution arrangements, the financial returns were positive. In Kebbi,
for instance, the differences in returns per ha to adoption of improved practices (compared with traditional
practices) were reported to range from 75 percent to 168 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of
26 percent to 65 percent. Although the project did not specifically target the poor as beneficiaries, it made
substantial contribution to poverty alleviation through an improvement of the incomes of about 65 percent
of the two million rural farm families, in the core states alone, that was reached by extension. About 60
percent of Nigerians live in the rural areas, most of them engaged in farming as the major source of income.
The project also achieved the objective of the unification of the extension service in the states to make the
service more cost-effective. It helped build the capacity of the public sector for project management and to
sustain the institutions whose capacity would have been seriously eroded with the closure of the Bank loans
that created and supported them in the past. The project management was also able to cope with an
increase in the number of states and the scope of coverage without a corresponding increase in resources.
4.2 Outputs by components:
-3 -



(a)    The Adaptive Research Component was partially satisfactory.  Although the component
improved the linkages with research institutes and achieved over 80 percent of the target of On-farm
Adaptive Research (OFAR) trials, it focused on crop varietal testing rather than on integrated systems
approaches to crop management. The rate of adoption could have been much higher if the constraints
imposed by limited access to input supply constraints, especially fertilizer, were removed. Some of the
recommendations developed for the dry season include improved water management techniques, high
yielding varieties of tomato (Roma VF and UC82-B), wheat (Seri 82, Frond), cowpea (IT288, IT719), and
Irish potato (Nicola), and for the wet season, higher yielding varieties of cotton (Samcot 10), millet
(GB8735), sorghum (KSV8, ICSV400), rice (ITA150, ITA230, ITA257), as well as striga-resistant
cowpea. It should also be noted that the methodology adopted by the component for research-extension
linkage suffered a setback in 1997, when the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) management,
due to constraints in funding and the availability of scientists, directed the ADPs to conduct Quarterly
Technology Review Meetings (QTRM) rather thani the Monthly Technology Review Meeting (MTRM).
Many ADPs tried the QTRM for about two years and decided to return to the MTRMN because of the long
gap in technology flow associated with the QTRM, especially when the scientists failed to attend the
QTRM. A lot still remains to be done to develop effective adaptive research capacity in the states.
(b)    The Extension Component was satisfactory. The extension services were successfully unified in
all the ADPs, and varied rates of adoption of improved practices by farmers have been reported. In Kano,
for instance, adoption rates for the 1997/98 dry season ranged from 6 percent for garlic to 62 percent for
improved tomato varieties. The production of garlic and Irish potato helped to reduce the market glut
usually experienced for tomato and onion immediately  after harvest.  In Bauchi, studies in  1997
indicated that the adoption of improved crop seed varieties ranged from 25 percent for rice to 96
percent for sorghum. The adoption of improved non-crop practices could, however, have been higher.
For livestock, it ranged from 10 percent for artificial brooding of day-old chicks to 15 percent for
pasture feed production, and for agro-forestry, from 13 percent for alley farming to 33 percent for
erosion control. The lower rates of adoption for the non-crop practices is attributed to the high cost
of the required inputs. In Bauchi, by providing irrigation water and some fertilizer to the farmers,
average yield increases over project life of 107 percent and 176 percent for onion and tomato, respectively,
were recorded as compared with the appraisal estimates of 67 percent for the two crops. However, the
Training and Visit (T&V) extension approach used by the project was perceived by the implementation
agencies to be "top-down" in the development of technical recommendations rather than responding
to  farmers' socioeconomic conditions and investment attitudes, and  to be costly in terms of its high
demand for staff mobility and field allowances which were not readily available.
(c)    The achievement of the Women in Agriculture (WIA) Component was satisfactory.  It
successfully formed 3,787 women groups, 75 percent of the target set by the ADPs in the core states and
trained them on improved production and post-harvest practices, small ruminant and poultry production,
preparation of soybean fortified food, weaning diets, soap and pomades, the low cost treatment of potable
water, and business management. There are reports from the ADPs of improvements in family nutrition,
greater access to credit from lending agencies as well as reduced dependence of the women on their
husbands as a result of the intervention of the WIA component. Beyond the requirements of the project, the
WIA unit also: (i) encouraged the formation of girls' clubs, where the members were introduced to
improved farming techniques early in their lives; (ii) championed the introduction of the Rural HIV/AIDS
(RAIDS) scheme in some ADPs; and (iii) organized gender sensitization workshops to obtain the support
of policy makers, government officials, traditional and opinion leaders and husbands for the WIA program.
(d)    The Animal Traction Component was satisfactory. About 755 fanrers and artisans were trained
on the fabrication and use of animal traction implements. The component also helped organize them into
-4 -



viable animal traction hire and fabricators groups, leading to a wider spread in the use of animal traction.
In Kebbi, for example, the ridgers, ploughs, weeders and decorticators, produced by the fabricator groups,
already have a good market in Niger Republic. The fabricators in Gusau (Zamfara) also produce treadle
pumps for small-scale irrigation.
(e)    The Agroforestry and Soil and Water Management Component was satisfactory, helping to
ensure a sustainable production base. About 1.9 M tree seedlings, 65 percent of the target, was produced
from project and community nurseries and individual and community woodlots established for fuelwood
and fodder. The component was less successful in the promotion of the planting of vetiver grass to check
erosion, and the planting of trees in fadama (small-scale irrigation) fields. The latter was attributed to
tenurial right problems in fadama lands and the former to the fragmentation of farmers plots which would
not allow for the planting of an effective continuous vetiver hedge. Data from the weather stations and soil
and water quality monitoring facilities established under the National Fadama Development Project
(NFDP) were utilized by the project in the preparation of sustainable technical recommendations for
farmers.
(f)    The Project Management Component was unsatisfactory. The creation of more states out of the
existing project states helped to erode the quality of management. Also, in spite of the training of 32,768
staff locally, and 297 staff overseas, in management and technical aspects, project reviews towards its end
revealed serious lapses in financial and procurement management, related to lack of transparency and
accountability in operations. Government has reached an agreement with the Bank to implement an Action
Plan to avoid a recurrence of the procurement lapses in future sector projects, and at the macro level, has
undertaken an assessment of the procurement and financial management systems in collaboration with the
Bank. Another weak aspect of the project management was the poor quality and consistency of the data
produced by the monitoring and evaluation component. This made project monitoring difficult and has
hampered an effective analysis of project performance in this ICR.
(g)    The Agricultural Technology Support Facility (ATSF) Component was satisfactory, helping to
maintain public extension services in 29 non-core states following the closure of several Bank loans in the
sector and the inability of the Government to sufficiently fund the services. The very modest facility (about
US$200,000 per state) produced such success stories as the wide spread of a sweet potato variety
(popularly called 'yar ADP' - daughter of ADP) and early millet in Adamawa, and improved cassava
varieties, yam minisett, rabbitory, snail production and homestead fish ponds in many of the southern and
middle belt states. The component also assisted the education and training of cooperative societies by the
Cooperative Financing Agencies (CFA) in Bauchi and Gombe. The CFA in Gombe facilitated access by
cooperative societies to loans totaling Naira 28 M from commercial banks in the last three years. The
facility assisted the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) to manage the ATSF Secretariat,
including the Centralized Special Account (CSA), to participate in supervision missions and provide
implementation assistance to the ADPs. Delays in processing Statement of Expenditure (SOE) through the
CSA slowed loan disbursement at the early part of the project. Although FACU, from late 1998, improved
on its turn-around time in the processing of SOEs, a large number of applications were bunched for
submission at the end of the disbursement grace period after loan closure, and some may be turned down by
the Bank. The Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) supported the ADPs in
project monitoring and evaluation and it undertook a study of the impact of the T&V system of extension in
Nigeria, while the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI) trained some of its
staff for more effective performance. The sustenance of the capacity built in these federal agencies is a
major achievement of the project. These agencies are now providing valuable assistance to Bank staff in
the identification and preparation of new projects as the Bank resumes new lending to the country.
- 5 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
The re-estimated ERR of 19 percent is higher than the 17 percent estimated at appraisal (Annex 3),
reflecting positive benefits arising mainly from the adoption of improved practices on incremental land, and
increased yields of some vegetable crops under irrigation. The ERR could have been higher but for the: (i)
low yield increases achieved for rainfed crops due to inadequate supplies of subsidized fertilizers to farmers
; (ii) drought conditions in most of the project areas in 1997; and (iii) floods arising from uncontrolled
discharge of water from hydro-electric dams in 1998.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
A financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal and is not done in the ICR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project made substantial contributions to sustaining public sector capacity for sectoral programs
design and implementation. The rating here may be moderately satisfactory, due to the problems associated
with project management, especially on the Borrower's side.  The support to:  (i) the ADPs for
implementation of technology adaptation and dissemination and project management; (ii) Bauchi and
Gombe CFA, for cooperative education; (iii) FACU, for project design and implementation; (iv) APMEU,
for monitoring and evaluation; and (v) ARMTI, for training; prevented a serious erosion of the built-up
capacities in these institutions following the closure of the Bank loans that set up the agencies. The
Projects Coordinating Unit (PCU) formed from the merger of FACU and APMEU in 2000, was able to
provide implementation support to an increasing number of ADPs with limited resources, and is currently
leading the identification and preparation of new sector projects for Bank support with the resumption of
lending to Nigeria.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation was adversely affected by:
(a) delays in the implementation of contracts and poor performance of some contractors;
(b) pastoralist-farmer and inter-community conflicts, which led to the stoppage of farm work for some
periods as well as the destruction of crops, livestock, farm equipment and even human lives;
(c) occasional dry spells as well as floods, especially in 1998, which destroyed crops in parts of the
country; and
(d) significant violation of procurement procedures during the procurement of contracts under this project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Project implementation was positively affected by Government's expressed support for the ADP system and
its adoption of the policy on the unified agricultural extension services (UAES) in the ADP system. This
helped the ADP to obtain the relevant staff from the state Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR) and to harmonize its efforts in adaptive research and extension for the different sub-sectors.
Factors that adversely affected implementation include:
- 6 -



(a) lack of a sector strategy to give a focus to sectoral development and harmonize inter-agency mandates
as well as collaborative arrangements;
(b) inadequate counterpart funding by the federal and state governments and untimely release of funds,
which led to the Bank insisting on the deduction at source (from the Federation Account) of the state
contributions;
(c) irregular meetings of the Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (ADPEC) and the
Federal Agricultural Projects Executive Committee (FADPEC), which led to delays in the approval of
work programs and budgets as well as reduced oversight over project management;
(d) seizure of project vehicles by government officials, thereby depriving project staff mobility for project
activities; and
(e) scarcity of fertilizer as well as fuel for irrigation pumps which limited farmners' production capacity.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The following factors adversely affected project implementation:
(a) poor procurement planning and management, including: (i) the manipulation of shopping procedures in
some ADPs through a lack of transparency in the solicitation and evaluation of bids and in the choice of
firms; (ii) the splitting of contracts for vehicles and equipment as well as exceeding the aggregate limits for
procurement of goods under shopping procedure; (iii) weak contract management, including delays in port
clearance and non-enforcement of performance securities and sanctions for delayed delivery and
completion; and (iv) deficiencies in procurement filing and documentation;
(b) significant procurement violation and irregularities, which led the Bank to declare misprocurement of
the contracts financed under this project and two other agricultural projects (Cr. No. 2261-UNI and Cr.
No. 3451 UNI);
(c) weak financial control and audit, as evidenced by: (i) absence of updated fixed assets; (ii) poor
document filing; and (iii) poorly staffed Internal Audit Units that also had very limited coverage of project
activities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The latest estimated cost of the project, US$57.18 M is about 95 percent of the appraisal estimate. Foreign
exchange rate depreciated by close to 1,000 percent, from US$1.00 = N 9.50 at appraisal to US$1.00 = N
100.00 at the close of the loan, creating considerable strains on the federal and state governments to meet
their counterpart funding targets. The Technical Support Component cost only 73 percent of the appraisal
estimate, mainly because of the high local funding required for them, and which was not readily available
for project implementation. The Project Management Support Component of the project, on the other
hand, cost more than three times the appraisal estimate, because most of the cost elements were foreign and
fully reimbursable by the Bank, an escape route for higher reimbursement of costs in the face of
inadequate counterpart funding. The cost of the ATSF was only about 65 percent of the appraisal estimate
because of difficulties in operating the Centralized Special Account for reimbursement of project
expenditures.
-7 -



Bank financing of the Project Management Support components ended up 2.5 times higher than the
appraisal estimate, mainly because most procurement of goods and services came under these components.
Most of the limited government funds were also used by the project management for these activities at the
expense of the Technical Support Component. The financing of the latter by government was only 54
percent of the appraisal estimate compared to 69 percent by the Bank. Overall, the Bank funded about 71
percent of project costs, same as estimated at appraisal.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefbr sustainability rating:
Under the policy environment and institutional arrangements that existed during the project, the
sustainability of the project's activities was unlikely. However, the current institutional environment, both
in terms of the type of political regime in place and the enabling environment, especially in the policy area,
create adequate conditions for sustainability. Overall, therefore, sustaiability is likely. These favorable
developments, upon which the positive rating of sustainability is based will be presented later on.
Retrospectively, four major factors affected sustainability - low public commitment to research and
extension as reflected by poor funding of these activities, high cost of service delivery per beneficiary under
the T & V extension approach, poor access by farmers to credit and production inputs to fully adopt
improved practices, and weak rural infrastructure. Even before loan closure. many ADPs found it difficult
to pay extension staff salaries and travel allowances, leading to reduced intensity of visits to farmers. Little
attempt was made by the ADPs to try more cost-effective group approaches, and greater use of mass media
and para-extensionists. However, a number of recent developments give hope for improved sustainability
of technology services in the future. To address the funding issue, two states (Bauchi and Zamfara) have
already authorized deduction at source of their statutory revenue to support ADP activities. The new
Federal Government (sworn in at the end of May 1999) has announced its commitment to agricultural
development as a basis for revamping the economy and has promised to release more funds for agricultural
technology services. It is already preparing, with the assistance of the Bank, a Rural Development Strategy
that would help resolve the apparent contradictions in past rural development policies. Early in 2000, the
Government rationalized the public agencies associated with poverty alleviation in order to reduce
overheads and make more budget resources go down to the community level. The fertilizer subsidy policy
that was reinstated immediately after the Government was sworn in, in response to election campaign
promises, was jettisoned again at the beginning of 2000 and fertilizer distribution is now deregulated.
Government is also trying to put in place market-oriented macro-economic policies that would remove most
of the disincentives to increased agricultural productivity, and is emphasizing greater transparency,
accountability and budget discipline in the public sector, which would ensure that financial resources
budgeted for agricultural development would not be diverted or delayed in release. Most of the state
governments have also announced their commitment to agricultural development.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With the close of this project, there is no major Bank-assisted rural sector project in Nigeria. A number of
projects are, however, at the identification or preparation stages that could impact on the rural technology
system. The objective of the Second Fadama Development Project currently under preparation is to
overcome the production, organizational and marketing constraints which hamper smallholder private
irrigation farmers from fully utilizing their resources for fadama expansion that would lead to enhanced
food security and rural poverty reduction. The project would provide assistance for: (a) increased private
sector participation in the provision of services, including credit for production, processing and marketing,
which were hitherto bottlenecks to technology adoption and resource productivity; and (b) a better
- 8 -



management of environmental concerns. The Micro-watershed and Environmental Management Project
(MEMP), also under preparation, will assist communities to develop and implement sustainable and
integrated management of their natural resources in selected watersheds. A Decentralized Technology
Development and Dissemination Project is also being proposed for preparation in the second half of 2000
that aims at re-orienting the research and extension services to make them more responsive to the needs of
their clients. A pilot is proposed to test the management of extension service delivery by farmer
organizations, communities. NGOs, local government councils (LGCs) and the private sector, while
research would emphasize work on natural resources management and evaluation of biotechnology,
competitive funding and possible privatization of research on cash crops. It is proposed to adapt the
experience emerging from the implementation of the community-based agricultural and rural development
projects in Katsina and Sokoto into the preparation exercise.
Within the ADP system, considerable technical capacity has been built up to provide rural technology
services. The federal and state governments continue to make budgetary allocations to the ADPs, albeit
generally inadequate. During the transitional phase, the cost of the MTRM can be contained by focusing
on a few topics at each meeting, involving only the relevant subject matter specialists and resource persons,
and encouraging the contributions of LGCs and farmer groups. A few farmer groups have already
indicated their willingness to contribute to the visit costs of the extension agent and this has to be explored
by the ADPs as it is a reflection of the demand for their services. The federal support agencies, FACU and
APMEU, merged to form the PCU, continue to provide valuable technical services in the current project
identification and preparation exercise. In the seven core states, adequate arrangements are already in
place through the NFDP to monitor the likely environmental effects of future agricultural production
activities. With regard to the procurement lapses observed in the closed project, Government has promised
to implement the Action Plan agreed with the Bank to prevent a recurrence of the lapses.
A monitoring system is already in place at the ADP and federal levels. This needs to be improved upon to
provide more reliable data and extended to the LGC level. The key indicators for monitoring performance
would be improvements in: (a) adoption rates; (b) yields of crops and livestock; (c) incomes of farners; (d)
participation of women and youth; and (e) participation of LGCs, NGOs and the private sector. The Bank
would need to monitor the actions taken by the Government in relation to the Procurement Action Plan.
An impact evaluation of the project could be done by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) of the
Bank in the second half of 2000.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in project identification is rated satisfactory. The project was identified as a follow-up
to the earlier projects in support of the ADP activities and took into consideration the Government's
priorities as well as the Bank's strategy for the country. Bank staff assisted the borrower agency (FACU)
to prepare the project and ensured that the Bank's safeguard policies then in operation were taken into
consideration in project design. There were, however, a number of flaws in the design which has led to the
rating of quality at entry as unsatisfactory by this report. These include the lack of monitorable impact
indicators, the focus on one public service for technology development and dissemination, rather than
looking at the whole system, and the assumption that other support investments to technology adaptation
and dissemination would automatically be taken care of. This assumption was proven wrong during
implementation. Weak leadership for sectoral policy formulation and coordination, and poor credit and
infrastructure services seriously constrained the full achievement of project objectives. The appraisal team
-9-



recognized the importance of the changing macro-economic environment in the wake of the Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP), including the increase in export crop prices arising from the abolition of the
commodity boards, the reluctance of the private sector to undertake major investments in this sub-sector
because of the foreign exchange risks involved, and the incentive for local food production following the
ban on the importation of wheat, maize, rice, poultry and animal feed under SAP. The project, therefore,
aimed at strengthening the agricultural technology system to respond to these incentives in the face of
dwindling fiscal resources available to support the activities of the ADPs. The appraisal was, however,
inadequate in: (i) assessing the commitment of government to adequate counterpart funding of the project;
and (ii) assessing the capacity of the implementing, agencies for procurement and financial management. A
review of the project towards its end revealed a number of flaws in procurement and financial management
and the counterpart funding of the project was inadequate in many states. Overall, the performrance of the
Bank in lending is rated marginally satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance appeared to be tainted by the flaws in the management of procurement
operations which were discovered almost at the end of the Project, and which may have been detected with
much closer attention to procurement issues during supervision missions. However, based on the consistent
satisfactory outcome of project supervision, in terms both of implementation performance and development
outcome, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. This rating is based on the data in Annex 4 (p24)
and the Borrower's own assessment. Nevertheless, there were insufficiencies. The planning for supervision
and the resources budgeted for supervision were inadequate for a project which covered 36 states. The
joint Bank/Govemment supervision teams were constrained to concentrate on the seven core states and,
even at that, were limited to spending two to three days per state and, therefore, placed more emphasis on
the review of the technical activities relative to other aspects of the project. With hindsight, the supervision
of the financial and procurement operations was insufficient. An ex-post procurement audit undertaken by
the Bank toward the end of the project revealed significant violation of procurement procedures and
irregularities with respect to this and two other agricultural sector projects (Para. 5.3(b)). As a result of
the said violation, the Bank declared misprocurement of contracts under the project amounting to about
$1.2 million, and subsequently informed the Government that further Bank support to the agriculture and
rural development sector would be contingent upon adequate and timely actions by Government to ensure
that irregularities will not reoccur. The Borrower and the Bank agreed on a procurement Action Plan,
designed to achieve this objective, which is currently under implementation.  In order to establish
accountability and to determine appropriate sanctions for the misprocured funds, the Government has
recently instituted an Administrative Enquiry, under the Chairmanship of the retired Supreme Court Judge.
The Committee responsible for this inquiry is expected to present its report to the Government in July
2000.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Inspite of the poor management of procurement operations, and given the satisfactory ratings of technical
supervision and development outcome supervision, the overall performance of the Bank is rated as
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated satisfactory. The design of the project was
adequate in most respects and relevant to the Government's priorities at the time. The major weakness in
- 10-



the design was the inadequate emphasis on the devolution of delivery responsibility for technology services
to the farmer organizations and the LGCs, in order to reduce the dependence of the system on public funds.
This was partly due to the preparation team's reluctance to introduce very drastic changes in institutional
arrangements which could disrupt the existing ADP system, and the farmers' expectations from
govermment.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory. Although Government continued to
stress its commitmnent to the ADPs, macro-economic as well as sector policies (especially related to input
supplies, credit management and fiscal decentralization) were unstable during project implementation and
perpetuated the dependence of the project activities on public resources. Counterpart funding was
inadequate at the federal level and in many of the states and releases were often delayed. The meetings of
the executive committees of the project were irregular and this affected the quality of policy advice and
guidance provided to the project management. Some state governments also frequently changed the project
managers without consulting the FGN and the Bank, while others interfered in the procurement operations
and diverted project vehicles to other uses.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is also rated unsatisfactory. Although the ADPs made some
gains in the technical aspects of the project, most program managers were ineffective in applying sound
management principles, especially in procurement and financial operations, when faced with pressures from
the political leadership, which was largely military. Staffing was inadequate in some departments of the
ADP, and key skills, such as, financial and procurement management as well as monitoring and evaluation,
were generally lacking or inappropriately deployed. Consequently, there were deficiencies in the execution
of contracts and studies, in financial management and audits, and in the quality of monitoring data.
Sufficient attention was also not given by management to the participation of beneficiaries and LGCs in
project implementation.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance.
Based on the low performance of the Government and the implementing agencies in project implementation,
the overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following major lessons have emerged from the implementation of the NATSP:
(a) weak sectoral leadership leading to inconsistent macro and sector policies adversely affect the outcome
of agricultural services projects and these need to be addressed upfront before Bank investment in similar
projects in future. Particular attention needs to be paid to the policies related to input distribution, credit,
and produce marketing to ensure a proper incentive environment for the uptake of technology by farmers.
The Govermnent, in collaboration with the Bank, is already working on the preparation of a rural sector
strategy during the transition phase of the project and has started a review of its macro policies in the
direction of a more market-oriented, private sector-led development;
(b) Government needs to harmonize public sector as well as donor agency institutional arrangements for
rural development to ensure complementarity rather than duplication among the agencies.  Such
harmonization would also ensure a more focused allocation of limited public funds to priority interventions
- 11 -



for rural development;
(c) complementary investments to effective technology development and dissemination need to be put in
place or arrangements for their execution assured in the design of similar projects in future, including a
more decentralized rural development management as well as a robust infrastructure;
(d) genuine empowerment of beneficiaries, communities, LGCs and the private sector through actual
participation in the design and implementation of projects increases the sense of ownership and the chances
of sustainability of the project activities. Such projects would be less dependent on public institutional
arrangements that are rarely functional as well as public funding that is both inadequate and untimely.
Such empowerment should not diminish the responsibility of government to adequately fund rural
technology services, but allow for innovative and more effective service delivery; and
(e) Bank supervision of similar projects in the future needs to be better planned and funded to allow for the
appropriate duration, breadth and coverage of project activities, and to focus more on solving problems
towards the attainment of development objectives. The weak supervision of the procurement and financial
aspects of this project arising from the non-provision in supervision missions for staff with the requisite
skills, resulted in a number of flaws in procurement and financial management operations which were not
detected until towards the end of the project. The flaws included uneconomic procurement, lack of
transparency in the process and exceeding the aggregate limits prescribed for the procurement of goods and
services through the shopping procedure. The consequence has been the declaration of misprocurement by
the Bank and a requirement of the government to demonstrate tangible action to ensure that such problems
would not occur in the future before new projects can be approved by the Bank. The key lesson here is that
supervision that focuses only on the technical aspects of technology services projects may hinder future
support to projects in the agricultural sector, and the need for such support remains very strong in the
Bank's fight for poverty alleviation..
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(1) EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR
1.0   PROJECT BACKGROUND
As a follow-up to earlier Bank-assisted Projects the NATSP was designed to provide specific support to
ADP activities in technology adaptation and dissemination. The project was appraised in February -
March 1990 and the agreement for a loan of US$42.5 million was signed between the World Bank and the
FGN on August 25, 1992. The sum of US$35.9 million or 84% of the IBRD loan was to be on-lent to the
core states of Bauchi, Gombe, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi, Sokoto and Zamfara while the remaining US$6.6
million was to be used as facility or bridging funds by other states and the federal agencies. The loan
became effective in june 1993 and came to a close on December 31, 1999.
2.0    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
The NATSP had two main objectives:
(a) to assist the ADPs to develop, adapt and extend location specific technologies required for sustainable
agricultural development;
(b) to assist the ADPs to reorganize and unify agricultural extension service.
The main components for achieving these objectives are:
-     On-farm adaptive research
-     Reorganization and unification of agricultural extension service
- 12 -



-      Women-in-agriculture
-     Animal traction
-      On-farm agro-forestry and soil and water conservation
-     Project management and
-     Agricultural Technology Support Facility.
3.0    EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The NATSP objectives were specific, well focused and relevant to the needs of small farmers and
consistent with government agricultural policy to achieve self-sufficiency, food security, poverty alleviation
and environmentally sustainable agricultural system for the country. Project design was simple and derived
from the lessons of implementation of earlier projects.
4.0    LOAN COVENANTS
Some of the major loan covenants meant to facilitate the achievements of NATSP objectives include: (i)
unification of state extension service, (ii) the establishment of Agricultural Development Programs Liaison
Committee by each state ADP, (iii) employment of experienced and qualified staff to man key posts, and
(iv) ADPs to sign an agreement with selected national institutions on support for adaptive research and
planning, monitoring and evaluation.
5.0    ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES (CORE STATES)
5.1 Technology Development and Adaptation
The activities of technology development and adaptation in the crop sub-sector of the core states focused on
diagnostic surveys, on-station and on-farm adaptive research trials, technology review meetings and
sponsored research. All the states performed satisfactorily in the implementation of these activities and
most of the physical targets were met. Some of the technologies which emerged from these trials and were
transferred to extension for adoption by farmers include improved crop varieties (millet varieties GB8735
and SOSAT-C88; sorghum varieties KSV8, ICSV400 and ICSC11; rice varieties SIPP144, ITA150,
ITA230 and ITA257; cowpea varieties IT-719, IT374-12 and IT-288; tomato varieties Roma VF and
UC82-B; wheat variety Seri 82) and introduction of new crops (garlic, Irish potato and industrial
sugarcane).
The fisheries component concentrated on the promotion of cheap and affordable post-harvest technologies
relating to capture fisheries, aquaculture and post-harvest activities. Some of the technologies which were
extended to and adopted by farmers were Burkinabe fish smoking kiln and. the Malian traps in fish farning.
mass adoption of homestead fish pond was constrained by scarcity of fingerlings.
The efforts of the livestock component were concentrated on animal health (vaccination against major
prevalent diseases of livestock and deworming of small ruminants) and upgrading of local chicken with
exotic cockerel. Lack of emphasis on other aspects of livestock production was attributed to inadequate
support from livestock-based research institutes.
The activities of the agro-forestry. soil and water conservation component were focused at inception on the
production of fruit trees and forest tree seedlings for distribution to farmers. Direct seedlings production
by the ADPs was stopped after the Mid-Term Review in 1997 and seedlings were obtained through linkage
with Forestry II project. The ADPs provided support to farmers for the establishment of community and
individual nurseries. The overall performance of the ADPs in seedlings production and the establishment
of individual and community nurseries was satisfactory. There was generally low demand for seedlings by
farmers. Despite the SAR provision of cost-recovery from seedlings distributed to farmers some states
(Jigawa, Bauchi, Sokoto and Zamfara) distributed the seedlings free of charge throughout implementation
period.
The animal traction which was subsumed under livestock component initially was upgraded into a full
- 13 -



component after MTR to enhance performance and have a better focus. Different types of implements such
as ridgers, plough, harrows and simple farm implements were sourced locally and from overseas for
introduction and promotion by the core states during implementation. The major activities were directed at
training extension staff, farmers, and fabricators, testing and demonstration of implements and assistance in
the formation of farmer and fabricator groups. Existing animal traction training centers were rehabilitated
in Gombe, Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto states. The adoption of AIT implements were
however constrained by high cost of implements and the difficulty in accessing credit from financial
institutions.
5.2 Technology Dissemination (Extension)
In order to achieve cost-effectiveness and provide better services to farmers, extension staff from the
non-crop sub-sectors of the state Ministries of Agriculture were transferred to the ADPs and agricultural
extension services were unified with each VEA providing integrated messages to farmers in crops, animal
husbandry, agro-forestry, fisheries, animal traction and land management. However, disproportionate
emphasis is still on crops sub-sector as demonstrated by the number of SPATs and MTPs in crops
compared to those of non-crop sub-sectors.
As at project completion there was shortage of VEAs except in Gombe and Kebbi with achievement of
98% and 100% respectively of staff required in place. Worst hit were Kano and Sokoto where the dearth
of VEAs has kept the VEA:FF ratio as high as 1:1840 and 1:3220 respectively. None of the states except
Kebbi achieved the SAR target of VEA:FF ratio of 1:1000 throughout the project implementation. The
government embargo on direct recruitment during the project life made it difficult to fill the vacancies.
The main thrust of the extension delivery is farmer visits by VEA/BEA and supervised by BES and other
senior extension officers. The targets set for VEA/BEA were fairly mat as the cumulative achievement
during the project life were over 60% in states except Bauchi and Zamfara that recorded 50% and 43%
respectively. The reasons adduced for the inability of the states to fully meet the set targets include: (i)
inadequate mobility, (ii) persistent shortage of petroleum products, and (iii) irregular payment of travel
allowance.
There was shortage of motorcycles/mopeds for the VEAs/BEAs/BESs throughout the project
implementation except Gombe and Kano States which recorded 100% achievement of planned targets at the
end of the project. The mobility situation was more severe in Sokoto and Zamfara with achievement 22%
and 7% respectively of target as at the end of project. The mobility situation during project implementation
was compounded in Kano, Bauchi and Gombe with the purchase of the wrong model of motorcycles with
no spare parts. About 50% of the motorcycles were grounded in Kano and bicycles were provided to
VEAs/BEAs as replacement.
SPATs, Demonstration and MTP are important extension delivery methodologies for farmer training.
SPATs and MTPs were exclusively restricted to crops while demonstrations were used for technology
transfer in the non-crop sub-sector. The performance of most states in the implementation of targets set for
wet and dry season SPATs was satisfactory with cumulative achievement ranging from 60% to 83%
despite the mobility constraints of VEAs/BEAs, except in Sokoto and Kano with 525 and 47% achievement
respectively. The ADPs adopted the MTP which is total package/technology demonstration to complement
SPAT in technology delivery to farmers during the second half of the project. An impressive achievement
ranging from 75% to 109% were recorded by the ADPs.
The media support to Extension was largely concentrated on radio programs with overall cumulative
achievement of 85% and to some extent state TV and mobile shows. Most of the states (Jigawa, Kano,
Bauchi and Sokoto) have media centers with radio and TV recording studio and well equipped. In addition
to the media unit, some states produced video documentary and training films, drama and promotional
songs to effectively support extension delivery. Special publicity campaigns were also regularly mounted
- 14 -



in Jigawa throughout the project life to promote technology adoption and utilization.
6.0   FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE IMPLEMENTATION OF NATSP
NATSP implementation was positively influenced by the following factors: (i) the quality and stability of
ADP management and technical team, (ii) government support, (iii) regular supervision by the Bank and
federal agencies, and (iv) linkage with research institutes, NGOs and donor agencies.
Project implementation was constrained by two sets of factors: those subject to implementing agencies
control and those subject to government control. Among the factors subject to implementing agencies
control are: (i) lack of transparency in procurement process and poor contract management, (ii) delay in
procurement, and (iii) delay in processing SOEs through Centralized Special Account.
Factors subject to government control are: (i) irregular ADPEC meetings, (ii) inadequate and untimely
release of counterpart funds, (iii) prolonged and acute shortage of petroleum products, (iv) inconsistency in
government policies, (v) lack of access to inputs, especially fertilizer and credit, (vi) unfavorable economic
and political environment, and (vii) farmers-pastoralists conflict.
7.0    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
Project outcome is rated satisfactory. Most of the physical targets relating to technology adaptation and
dissemination activities in the core states were achieved and the adoption of project improved technologies
has resulted in yield increases for both rainfed and irrigated crops. The benefit-cost ratios for rainfed crops
range from 1.3 in maize to 1.9 for yam/cassavalmaize mixture. The benefit-cost ratios for irrigated maize,
rice and wheat are 1.4, 1.5 and 1.7 respectively. Estimated financial rate of return (FRR) is 22.7% while
estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 33.9% (* The calculation is being reviewed and it is likely that
this figure may change in the final report).  The project contributed significantly to institutional
development and capacity building.
8.0    BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Bank and Borrower's performance in the identification and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
Although supervision missions were regular, they failed to pay adequate attention to procurement matters
and financial management. Overall, the Borrower's performance is marginally satisfactory. Although
government demonstrated its commitment by providing policy support and counterpart funds for project
operations, the funds were inadequate and releases were irregular and untimely. The management of the
centralized Special Account was fraught with problems and delays which adversely affected the overall
performance of the facility states. The procurement audit conducted by the Bank towards the end of the
loan period revealed serious anomalies in the procurement process and financial management by the SIAs.
9.0   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The sustainability of the NATSP achievements is likely given the already well-established institutional
framework and capacity for technology adaptation and dissemination under the ADP system, the strong
commitmnent demonstrated by government towards the end of loan period and the fact that the focus of ADP
activities is consistent with government priority to achieve food security and poverty alleviation for the
country. The new democratic government which assumed office in May 1999 has identified with the ADP
as the implementing organ of government agricultural policies and many of the state governments have
demonstrated their commitment by increasing subventions to the ADPs.
10.0 KEY LESSONS LEARNT
The major lessons learnt from the implementation experience of the NATSP are:
(i) The experience of farmers who participated in the MTPs has demonstrated that given access to
production inputs, adequate extension support and production incentives, small farmers can easily increase
their production by three or four times.
(ii) There is still dearth of proven technology in the non-crop sector to meet small farmers' needs.
- 1 5 -



(iii) All parties to a loan agreement must strive to fulfill their obligations to ensure the full realization of
project objectives.
(iv) Future project design should adopt full participation approach to extension delivery and research trials.
(v) In future the Bank and the federal supervising agencies should ensure that the implementing agencies
comply fully with laid down procurement and financial management procedures in order to ensure proper
accountability and transparency.
11.0 COMMENTS BY BORROWER ON DRAFT ICR
The National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP) for which the World Bank
provided a loan of US $42.5 million closed on December 1999. The draft World Bank Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) has been forwarded to us for comments in line with the normal procedure in
preparing such reports for World Bank Assisted Projects. The Borrower's ICR is being expected and when
produced the findings in the Borrower's ICR will be married with the Bank's ICR in order to produce a
final ICR reflecting the correct views of the Bank and the Borrower on project performance.
2.     The main objective of the NATSP was to re-orient and improve the technology adaptation and
extension activities of the Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) to ensure that:
I.    the ADP adaptive research is aimed at the development of location - specific technologies for
sustainable intensification of the principle farming system, wherever appropriate, integrating messages
from crops, livestock and agro-forestry research.
II.    The extension service is unified to provide a better quality of cost effective service to farmers of all
categories, including Women In Agriculture (WIA).
The objective of the project was restated thus, "To strengthen, in the States of Bauchi, Kano,
Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi (and in a smaller way, other selected States), the adaptation and dissemination
of location specific, environmentally sound, agricultural technology to increase farm productivity and
production on a sustainable basis.
3.     Comments:
3.1    Paragraph 3.5 Lines 2 - 5 "The obiective of the proiect was not clear and lacked monitorable
impact indicated". As stated in para. 2. I - II and the restated objective in paragraph 3.2 page 2, the
design objective of the project was clear. However it is true that there were no monitorable indicators and
this is a weakness in the project design and may have been responsible for the unsatisfactory overall
ranking for "Quality at Entry".
When the project was designed the commercial services of the ADPs were converted into
Input Supply Companies and were responsible for input provision in the ADPs. The idea was to convert
then into viable financially sustainable outfits.  A combination of poor management and lack of
capitalization in certain instances were responsible for the failure of almost all the Input Supply
Companies, except the Bauchi and Gombe Credit Finance Associations. In effect the situation on the
ground at the time of the Staff Appraisal Report of this project favoured commercialization of the
Commercial Services Sub Programs of the ADPs.
The ranking of unsatisfactory here tended to judge the project with the prevailing conditions as at
- 16 -



now, as opposed to the prevailing condition at appraisal.
3.2    Under Achievement of Objective and Outputs which is paragraph 4 of the report the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) was 19 percent which was revised to 21 percent in paragraph 4.3 of the report page
11 is higher than the Appraisal Target of 17 percent. We do not agree with the assertion that the recorded
increases in output were as a result of expansion of hectarage under cultivation alone as stated in paragraph
4.1 line 4.5 page 3 and does not agree with the assertions on paragraph 4.3. There were undoubtedly
productivity increases. However we appreciate the data inconsistency, which usually emanates from the
ADPs. There is a need for future projects to not only emphasize data retrieval and consistency but to
provide adequate resources for this critical component Presence of a well funded and equipment Project
Monitoring and Evaluation subprogram could be a condition for eligibility.
Under project outputs by components we do not agree with the ranking of marginally
unsatisfactory. With an 80 percent achievement recorded in improved linkages with Research Institutes
and adoption of improved high yielding planting materials one finds it difficult to agree with this ranking.
It is true that the Monthly Technology Review Meeting (MTRMs) was momentarily replaced with
Quarterly Technology Review Meetings (QTRMs) due to fund inadequacy at a time the ADPs reverted to
MTRMs after trying out the QTRMs.
The ranking of the Project Management Component as unsatisfactory just because of the
Procurement Audit Query is unacceptable. Procurement as a means to an end is critical. However it is a
component of the activities needed to achieve a specific goal based on the project objectives. There is no
doubt that that to considerable extent project objectives were achieved and this can be attested to by the
output increases recorded in the production of major grains as well as roots and tubers in the last few years
and which is expected to continue which cannot be divorced from the farmers adoption of the new
technologies being disseminated by the ADPs.
ON ATSF:   While agreeing that more funds could have helped the activities of the 29 non-core States,
Govemments, particularly the Federal Government, in the last 2 - 3 years of project life improved its
funding of the ADPs, although the releases may not however have been timely. We agree that there were
delays in processing of SOEs initially however we appeal that all duly presented SOEs that got to the Bank
before loan closure should be reimbursed, in order not to repeat the difficulties caused by such
non-reimbursements under the Fadama Phase I project.
Again paragraph 7.6 under Implementing Agency, the criticisms seem to be based on the
Procurement Audit Query rather than objectively looking at the totality of the achievements under this
project. The paragraph needs to be revisited.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No cofinancier.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No other partner.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
(a) Yield increase for major crops (%)                                          Bauchi    Kano         Kebbi
- Sorghum                          50                                         40         29          20
- Millet                           60                                          5         20          10
- Maize                            50                                         16          11         19
- Rice (iirigated)                 67                                         NA         NA          22
- Tomato (irrigated)               67                                         176          5          6
- Onion (irrigated)                67                                         107         31         (9)
-Cowpeas                           267                                          5         62          72
(b) Rainfed crop production growth over                                          Kebbi
project life (%)
-Sorghum                           12                                          17
- Millet                           12                                          13
-Maize                             12                                          10
-Rice                              12                                          25
-Cowpea                            12                                          12
(c) Difference in return per ha. between
traditional and improved practice (%)                                        Kebbi
- Sorghum                            45                                         75
- Millet                             51                                       134
-Rice                                64                                       168
- Sorghum/Millet mixture             52                                       161
- MilletVSorghum/Cowpea mixture      26                                       101
Note: NA = Not Available
- 18 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        J         Projecied it last PSR                ActuaU/Latest Estimate
On-Farm Adaptive Research (No.)                                                          Percent
(a) OFAR trials - crops             8,735                                7,233            (83)
- non-crops            2,054                                1,665             (81)
(b) technology review meetings     378                                   346              (91)
Extension (No.)
(a) farm visits by extensionists    1,886,546                            972,695           (52)
(b) small adoption plots (crops)    662,538                              436,032           (66)
(c) livestock/fisheries demonstrations  38,183                            19,640           (51)
(d) extension agenttfarm family ratio  1:1,000                            1:1,598          (63)
(e) WIA - women groups formed       5,023                                3,787             (75)
- demonstrations            30,496                                41,001           (134)
Animal Traction (No.)
(a) extension staff trained         708                                  485               (69)
(b) farmers/artisans trained        1,603                                755               (47)
Agroforestry/Soil-Water Managem. (No.)
(a) tree seedlings produced         2,900,550                             1,893,090        (65)
(b) demonstrations                  17,976                                11,736           (65)
Project Management (No.)
(a) Staff training - local long term  2,831                               1,338            (47)
- local short term     53,688                               31,430           (59)
- overseas             351                                  297               (85)
(b) Planning Monitoring & Evaluation
- quarterly/annual reports   205                             201               (98)
- adoption/impact studies   24                               23                (96)
Agric. Technology Support Facility (No.)
(a) crop OFAR trials               733,098                               400,194          (55)
(b) women groups formed             15,595                               10,148            (65)
(c) extension agent/farm family ratio  1:1,000                           1:3,693           (27)
End of project
- ici



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
05 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tulILt    ifercentae o0.E :~:f
A. For the Core States
Technical Support
Adaptive Research                                     6.30             4.59            72.9
Agricultural Extension                               23.30            12.23            52.5
Animal Traction                                       4.40             7.14           162.3
Agroforestry and Soil and Water Management            4.30             4.08            94.9
B. For the Core States
Project Management Support
Administration and Finance                            2.90             9.68          333.8
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation                   2.80            10.19          363.9
Manpower Development and Training                     1.00             3.06            306
C. Agricultural Technology Support Facility              9.60             6.21           64.7
Total Baseline Cost                                     54.60            57.18
Physical Contingencies                                  3.40             0.00
Price Contingencies                                     2.00             0.00
Total Project Costs                60.00            57.18
Total Financing Required                60.00            57.18
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
"ffead'    v~~~~Pocreet Mett:to';
1. Works                      0.00          3.80         0.00          0.00          3.80
(0.00)       (3.60)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (3.60)
2. Goods                     15.10          1.20         2.50          0.00         18.80
(13.70)       (1.00)       (2.20)        (0.00)       (16.90)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         5.40          0.00          5.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (5.40)       (0.00)        (5.40)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         23.20         0.00         23.20
- Operating Costs
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.00)        (0.00)       (10.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         8.80          0.00          8.80
- Agricultural             (0.00)        (0.00)        (6.60)       (0.00)        (6.60)
Technology
Support Facility
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                      15.10         5.00         39.90         0.00          60.00
(13.70)       (4.60)       (24.20)       (0.00)       (42.50)
-20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Catei3 y         408                                2        N.S.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           5.10           0.00           0.00            5.10
(0.00)         (3.61)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.61)
2. Goods                         12.79          0.64           2.87           0.00           16.30
(10.61)        (0.53)         (2.53)         (0.00)         (13.67)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           10.73          0.00           10.73
(0.00)         (0.00)         (7.60)         (0.00)         (7.60)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           18.84          0.00           18.84
- Operating Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)         (9.80)         (0.00)         (9.80)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           6.21           0.00            6.21
- Agricultural                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (5.82)         (0.00)         (5.82)
Technology
Support Facilityv
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         12.79          5.74           38.65          0.00           57.18
(10.61)        (4.14)         (25.75)        (0.00)         (40.50)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
v1 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.  Perentage of Appraisal
__   _  _  _ _  ____   _ _    __C                                                      Ree     G,'    C>F..1'.'  F
A. For the Core States                                                                 0.0    0.0    0.0
Technical Support                                                                      0.0    0.0    0.0
Adaptive Research         5.18      1.96       0.00      3.67       0.92      0.00     70.8   46.9   0.0
Agricultural Extension   18.28      8.47       0.00      9.78       2.45      0.00     53.5   28.9   0.0
Animal Traction           4.01      0.82       0.00      4.69       2.45      0.00    117.0  298.8   0.0
Agroforestry and Soil and  2.93     1.89       0.00      2.79       1.29      0.00     95.2   68.3    0.0
Water Management
B. For the Core States                                                                 0.0    0.0    0.0
Project Management                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Support
Administration/Finance    2.33      0.96       0.00      4.32       5.36      0.00    185.4  558.3   0.0
Planning, Monitoring      2.21      1.00       0.00      6.42       3.77      0.00    290.5  377.0   0.0
and Evaluation
Manpower Dev./Training    0.96      0.20       0.00      3.01       0.05      0.00    313.5  25.0   0.0
C. Agricultural           6.60      2.20      0.00       5.82       0.39      0.00     88.2   17.7   0.0
Technology Support
Facility
Total                    42.50      17.50      0.00      40.50      16.68     0.00     95.3   95.3   0.0
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 3A summarizes the economic analysis for the project, while Table 3B compares the benefit-cost
ratios for the adoption of improved practices generated and disseminated by the project, at appraisal and at
the ICR stage.
1.      The economic rate of return (ERR) of 17 percent estimated at appraisal, based on a cost of
US$51.31 M for the core states (85 percent of total cost), assumed that:
(a) the major project benefits would come from the expansion of area under irrigation for rice and wheat
(five percent per year), and the adoption of the improved practices (water control, crop husbandry,
fertilizer, seed, pesticides); and
(b) the area of the rainfed crops brought under the improved practices would increase by two percent each
year. Total production would increase at an annual rate of 1.7 percent over the 20 year life of the project.
With improved practices, yield would increase by 50-75 percent for sole cereal crops, 267 percent for
cowpea, and 20-75 percent for crop mixtures.
2.     The re-estimated ERR of 19 percent is based on a cost of US$50.97 M for the core states (89
percent of total estimated cost), and reflects:
(a) an irrigated production regime that emphasized vegetables (chiefly onion and tomatoes) rather than rice
and wheat which were more dependent on the availability of fertilizer; and
(b) increased production (10-25 percent) for major rainfed crops due mainly to expansion of area under
cultivation, as well as increases in yield of onion and tomatoes (over 100 percent) when irrigation water and
fertilizers are available to farmers.
3.     The assumption of farm-level profitability of the improved practices was sustained as shown by the
positive benefit-cost ratios for all the crops and mixtures, for farmers who could acquire the fertilizer and
other inputs required for the adoption of the improved practices.
-22 -



Table 3A. Economic Costs and Benefits for the Seven Core States
Cost         Benefit     Net Benefit    Net Present     ERR
State      (N million)    (N million)    (N million)   Value (N      (percent)
million)
Bauchi           2,259.60      3,723.20       1,463.60       145.95          17
Gombe             684.60       1,702.50       1,017.90      284.16           21
Jigawa           1,391.24      3,019.24       1,628.00       127.82          16
Kano              955.61       2,820.72       1,865.11       210.40          18
Kebbi            1,837.50      3,457.60       1,620.10       200.74          19
Sokoto            964.49       3,344.57      2,380.08        367.47          22
Zamfara           884.56       1,938.38       1,053.82       140.35          22
All                                                         1,492.34         19
Table 3B. Increased Financial Benefits and Costs for the Major Crops (Naira per hectare)
B:C Ratio
Crop/Crop Mixture Incremental Benefits Incremental Costs  at ICR        at appraisal
Sorghum_               1,712            1,170             1.5              1.4
Millet                 1,392            993               1.4              1.1
Maize                  1,497            1,420             1.1              1.6
Rice                   1,397            1,012             1.4              1.6
Cowpea                 1,651            1,411             1.2              1.5
Groundnut              2,151            2,019             1.1              1.4
Millet/Cowpea          2,110            1,918             1.1              1.1
Millet/Sorgh./Cowp     2,531            1,959             1.3              1.2
ea
Sorghum/Groundnu       1,350            1,112             1.2              1.0
t
Sorghum/Millet         1,145            863               1.3              1.3
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stageof Prot Cyclee                No. of Persons andSpcialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation  [  Development
Month/ear    Count                                       Prgss t:    Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/90                         1   AG
6/90                         8   AG, EC, FA, EDS, WIAS
10/90                        3   AG, ES
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/91                         8   00, EC, AG, EDS, FA,
WIAS
Supervision
11/92                        3  RE, AG, PA                           S                HS
2/93                         2  RE, AG                               S                HS
7/93                         3  RE, AS, FA                           S                HS
7/94                         4   AG, WIAS, 00                       HS                 S
10/94                        3  00, PA, AG                           S                S
4/95                         3  AG, PA, RE                           S                 S
8/95                         2  OO, PA                               S                 S
3/96                         2  OO,PA                                S                 S
2/97                         3  00, AG, ES                           S                 S
6/97                         1  00                                   S                 S
11/97                        3  OO, AG, WIAS                         S                S
5/98                         4  OO, IS, AG                           S                 S
3/99                         5  AG, 00, FMS, TA, WIAS, RDS           S                 S
12/99                        6  AG, FMS, PS, TA                      S                S
ICR
3100                         1   EA                                  U                 S
AG = Agriculturist; AS  Accounts Specialist; EA = Economic Analyst; EC = Economist; EDS =
Education Specialist; ES = Extension Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; FMS = Financial Management
Specialist; IS = Implementation Specialist; 00 = Operations Officer; PA = Projects Auditor; PS =
Procurement Specialist; RE = Rural Engineer; RDS = Rural Development Specialist; TA = Task
Assistant; WIAS = Gender Specialist
-24 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                        ActualLatest Estimate
________________________               No. Staff weeks                  US$  (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 100.40                          242.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                       47.60                          121.3
Supervision                                 275.2                         514.99
ICR                                         14.3*                          39.18
Total                                      437.48                         918.27
* Includes Actual and Planned SWs
-25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for ARhievement of OIbjectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High. SU=Substantial. M=-Modcst, N=Negligible. NA=NIot Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                            .JH  f SU C M  0 N  0 AA
Z Sector Policies                              H h   SU 3 M  * N  OD lYA
O Physical                                    .H     SU   M A    N  ON.A
Z Financial                                    H   ) .SU C M  ON  *NA
S Institutional Development                    H  CD SU * M  0) N  O V4
Z Environmental                             .    0 SU C M  O N  OAA
Social
X Poverty Reduction                     H  CJ SU * M  C N  C NA
J Gender                                H ,     SU O4 M  C N     ATh4
O Other (Please speci jj2                     Stu    A M  0 N   O NA
Z Private sector development                   H  OSU O M  0 N  *NTA
K Public sector management                  C. hCG Su O M  3 N  O NA
O Other (Please speciht)                       H l C SbU 3 M  3 N  C AA
26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                            OHSOS OU OHU
FX Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U   OHU
N Overall                                            OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
M Preparation                                        O HS * S   O u  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  * U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS *u O HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Map
-28-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 23561
G   E  R7
12 ~    ~     1                                                                                                                                                                     12
o ..~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/'   "  I                                                                                                          (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C HAD
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
240  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TCHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
2    MAJOR VEGETATION ZONES    a
`..[S lwo.n
EcoIog,~~~oI Zon,s,,,,~~~,    ~ ~   ~   ~     D~~o~io,  o om .,l    o
0   00  40  00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 100  20  40 100 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~          d
40  0,40,000000                                                                NOT2~~~~~~~ 2COLOGY AFTeR KEAY 0 CLAITON ~ S-t- GW
0.                12~~~~~~~~~. -1S4
F.-t~ ~ ~ EBURY19



