Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROE'ICHE Cop'y
Report No. 9655-UNI
Report No. 9655-UNI Type: (SAR)
SINGH,  S  / X34572 / J-5231/ AF4AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =            Naira (N)
US$1.00                     =             N9.5
N I (100 kobos)             =            US$0.105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
I metric ton (m ton)       =             2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)             =             2.47 acres (ac)
I kilometer (km)            =            0.62 miles (mi)
I meter (mn)               =             3.28 feet (ft)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP                 -      Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC               -      ADP Executive Committee
AERLS               -      Agricultura '5xtension and Research Liaison Service
APLC                -      Agricultural Programs Liaison Committee
APMEU               -      Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ARMTI               -      Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASD                 -      Agricultural Services Dtpartment
ATSC                -      Agricultural Technology Support Committee
ATSF                -      Agricultural Technology Support Facility
BASIRDA             -      Bauchi State Integrated Rural Development Authority
BES                 -      Block Extension Supervisor
CSU                 -      Commercial Services Unit
DFRRI               -      Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure
FACU                -      Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FF                         Farm Family
FGN                 -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMAWRRD             -      Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development
FMST                -      Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
FNT                 -      Fortnightly Training
FORMECU             -      Forestry Monitoring Evaluation and Coordinating Unit
IAR                 -      Institute of Agricultural Research
ILCA                -      International Livestock Center for Africa
KNARDA              -      Kano Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
MADIA               -      Managing Agricultural Development in Africa
MANR                -      (State) Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MDTD                -      Manpower Development and Training Department
MSADP               -      Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
MTRM                -      Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NACAR               -      National Advisory Committee for Agricultural
Research
NAERLS              -      National Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison
Service
NARP                -      National Agricultural Research Project
NATSP               -      National Agricultural Technology Support Project
NCAM                -      National Centre for Agricultural Mechanization
NLPD                -      National Livestock Project Department
OED                 -      Operations Evaluation Department
OFAR                -      On-Farm Adaptive Research
OSR                 -      On-Station Research
PCC                 -      Projects Coordinating Committee
PCR                 -      Project Completion Report
PME                 -      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
PMEU                -      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recinient" onlv in thP  mrfnrni r



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (cont'd)
PMU                 -     Program Management Unit
SARDA               -      Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
SG                  -     State Government
SIA                 -      State Implementing Agency
SMS                        Subject Matter Specialist
VEA                 -      Village Extension Agent
WIA                 -      Women in Agriculture



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PagreNo
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................ i-iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .................................. 1
II.    AGRICULTURE SECTOR BACKGROUND ..2..                          ........ 2
A.    Agricultural Sector and Economic Environment ................. 2
B.    Agricultural Policies and Bank Sector Assistance
Strategy.                                                           4
C. Bank Operations  .5
D.    Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) and
Lessons Learned                         .5
III.  THE AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SYSTEM.                                 8
A.    Technology Development ............................... 8
B.    Technology Dissemination ............................... 9
C.    Research-Extension Linkages ............................ 10
IV.  THE PROJECT AREA                 ......................  11
A.    Population ..................................... 11
B.    Physical Features and Climate ........................... 12
C.    Farming Systems ................................... 12
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Nigeria in March
1991, comprising Messrs. S. Singh (Mission Leader), A. Seth, R. Krishnan, S. Eremie, Ms.
E. Gadzama (World Bank); V. Bindlish (Consultant); H.S. Randev and P. Yadav (FACU).
Messrs. R. Hanan and V. Venkatesan reviewed the report for quality enhancement. Ms.
M.L. Ah-Kee provided assistance in the cens tables of the report, and Mrs. E. Sunderland
provided secretarial support. Messrs. J. Joyce and E. Lim are the managing Division Chief
and the Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



V.    THE PROJECT  ......................................... 13
A.    Rationale and Objecives ..... ........................  13
B. Project Design.                                                            14
C. Summary Description .15
The Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi Components ....  15
1. Technical Support Se'rvices .15
2. Project Management .15
3. The Agricultural Technology Support Facility .16
D. Detailed Features .16
Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi Components .16
1. Technical Support Services .16
2. Project Management .18
3. Agricultural Technology Support Facility .19
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .19
A. Cost Estimates .19
B.  Proposed Financing Plan .22
C. Procurement .23
D.  Disbursement ........................ 25
E.   Auditing, Accounting and Reporting .27
VII PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .27
A.    Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi Components  .        .27
1. Overall Organization and Management .27
2. Operation of the Technology Support System .29
B.    Agricultural Technology Support Facility     ..37
C.  Mid-Term and Completion Reviews    .                  .37
D.  Implementation Schedule    ..38
VIII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .38
A.  Determinants of Benefits and Costs    ..39
1. Input Use and Crop Yields .39
2. Prices  . .40
B.    Farm-Level Financial and Economic Analysis    .         .41
C.  Project Economic Analysis    ..42
D.    Implication for Fertilizer and Labor Use    ..43
IX.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .....  44
A.  Benefits and Justification .....   44
B. Risks .....                                                                44
C.  Enviromnental Effects .....  45
X.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..46



ANWEXES
1.    The Technology Adaptation and Dissemination System
2.    Key Findings from the Past Adaptive Research and Priorities for
Future Work in Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto States
3.    Key Features of Extension Services
4.    Eligibility Criteria for Allocation of Funds Under the Agricultural
Technology Support Facility
5.    Crop Budgets and Economic Analysis
6.    Summary Cost Tables
7.    Project Implementation Schedule
8.    Disbursement Schedule
9.    Organization Charts
10.   Documents Available in Project File
MAP: IBRD 23561 Nigeria - Major Vegetat!-- Zones



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF MNGERIA
NAINLARCLUA TECHNOLOGy SUPPORT PhOlECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Bneficia^rie:              Federal Republic of Nigeria and Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa,
Sokoto and Kebbi States.
Amount:                    US$42.5 million.
Terms:                     Payable over 20 years, including five years of grace at
standard variable interest rates.
3n-Lending Terms:          The Federal Government would on-lend US$11.4 million to
Bauchi State, US$13.7 million to Kano and Jigawa States, and
US$10.8 million to Sokoto and Kebbi States on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan. Funds from an
Agricultural Technology Support Facility of $6.6 million
would be used by Federal Agencies for technology
development and would also be on-lent to other states, on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, upon compliance
with eligibility criteria such as, acceptable project management
arrangements and programs for adaptive research, agricultural
extension, staff training, environmental protection and private
sector participation. The states would carry the foreign
exchange risk.



ii -
Project Description:       The project would assist Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and
Kebbi States in strengthening: AgriculturWa Technical Sup=ort
Saiges and Project Management. On-Farm Adaptive
Research would translate technology for application in major
farming systems; Extension Services would be unified under a
single agency in each state. Village Extension Agents (VEAs)
appropriate to the number of farm families and supported by
Subject Matter Specialists would transfer technology to
farmers through advice on activities involving crops, animal
husbandry, animal tractior igro-forestry, soil and water
management and fisheries (where required). Extension
workers would be provided with mobility, training and
improved supervision to enable them deliver better quality
service to farmers. The gender-specific farming and post-
harvest activities of the Women-in-Agriculture program would
be managed as an integral part of technology promotion by the
extension service and would be given increased emphasis
through training and adaptive research. Animal Traction and
Development of Small Scale Farm Implements would assist in
productivity enhancemnent with minimal soil disturbance. On-
Farm Agro-Forestry and Soil and Water Management would
aim to conserve soil and water mainly through biological
methods involving planting of trees and vetiver grass. Projec
Management assistance would cover support for
Administration and Finance through rehabilitation of office
buildings, purchase of vehicles and provision of technical
assistance; upgrading of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Units through better mobility, office equipment and
development of joint M&E work programs with national and
international centers of excellence in this field; and Manpower
Development and Training to benefit management, technical,
extension and administrative staff.
In addition, the project would establish an Agricultural
Technology Support Facilit to replicate in other states the
type of activities outlined above for the five principal project
states. States where similar projects are either coming to an
end or where adequate resources are not available under an
on-going project would be eligible. The ATSF would also
support discrete activities or pilot programs to increase farmer
productivity or production through acquisition and
dissemination of innovative and affordable technologies.



- iii -
Estimated Costs
L&  Ei Il
USS million
A. Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi
- Technical Support
1. Adaptive Research                         2.6    3.7      6.3
2. Agricultural Extension                    10.6   12.7    23.3
3. Animal Traction                           1.2    3.2      4.4
4. Agro-Forestry and Soil and Water Management   2.4    1.9  4.3
Subtotal Base Costs                      16.8   21.5    38.3
B. Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi
- Project Mgt Support
1. Administradon and Finance                 1.2    1.7      2.9
2. Planning, Monitoring and Evaluadon        1.3    1.5      2.8
3. Manpower, Development and Training        0.3    0.7      1.0
Subtotal Base Costs                       2.8    3.9      6.7
C. Agricultural Technology Support Facility     3.9    5.7      9.6
Total Base Costs                      23.5   31.1    54.6
Physical Contingencies                          1.4    2.0      3.'.
Price Continengies                              0.3    1.7      2.0
Total Project Costs a/                25.2   34.8    60.0
II US$3.3 million of which are taxes.
Financing_Pla
EBRD                                         7.7  34.8  42.5
Federal Government                           9.8   0.0   9.8
State Governments                            7     _L    7.7
25.2  34.8  60.0



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year           1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999
US$ Million
Annual                     2.3   6.4    9.0   9.7   9.3   3.6    1.2
Cumulative                 2.3   8.7   17.7  27.4  36.7  41.3   42.5
Benefits:                  Economic benefits under the project are expected from: (a)
improved efiaciency of technological support services,
especially those relating to adaptive research and extension;
(b) incremental production and productivity of major rainfed
and irrigated farming systems of the participating states; (c)
enhanced sustainability of smallholder agriculture with
development of integrated crop, livestock, aZro-forestry and
land use systems through improvements in soil and water
conservation and promotion of animal traction.
Risks:                     The main risks would be the operational difficulties resulting
from the unification of extension services, inadequate
counterpart funding, lack of appropriate technologies leading
to lower than expected adoption rates and weak
implementation capacity. To assist phasing in of the unified
extension service detailed plans have been prepared and
intensive consultation with state MANRs and other affected
agencies would be continued until the unification is fully
implemented and opera'tonal. To overcome problems relating
to counterpart funding, firni commitment to provide adequate
funding has been obtained and sank funds would be targeted
on key activities where continuity is important. To ensure
development of appropriate and affordable technologies
research-extension linkages would be strengthened and greater
consultation with farmers with clearly identified performance
indicators would ensure relevance of work to the end users.
The implementation capacity of the participating agencies
would be reinforced through staff training and provision of
expertise in critical areas.
Economic Rate of Return:    17%
Maps:                      IBRD 23561 Nigeria: Vegetation Zones



EDiERALREPUBLIC OF NGERiA
NATIONAL AGRICENJMAL T19CLOZGY SMMT PRQ.CT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    At the end of the seventies, Nigeria's agriculture sector was depressed, with food
production almost stagnant and export crop production declining. Both Federal (FGN) and
State Governments (SG) were concerned over rapidly increasing food imports and the rural
people not benefitting from the strong growth of an economy fueled by high value oil exports.
At the same time, it appeared that on-going Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) that
had been promoted by the FGN and supported with Bank loans were popular with the rural
population. In spite of unfavorable macro-economic conditions ADPs were generating
increases in agricultural production and providing improved access to markets. An ADP
typically included feeder roads construction and potable water supplies; supply of fertilizer,
seeds and other inputs; adaptive research and agricultural extension services. In 1980, FGN
published a Food Production Plan, which aimed to raise agricultural production by a
minimum of 3.5% annually in the period 1981-85. This plan, which took account of the work
of a Bank Food Strategy Mission, chose expansion of the ADP concept as the means of
generating 80% of the production sought, and consequently every state would have an ADP.
The Food Plan also called for what is now the Federal Department of Agriculture (FDA) in
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources (FMAWRRD) to be strengthened to
enable it to assist SGs (there were nine at the time) to implement the plan. A new unit, the
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) was created to provide implementation
assistance, while an existing unit, the Agriculture Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(APMEU), was strengthened to assist ADPs to evaluate the impact of their activities.
1.2    ADPs now exist in all 30 states and 27 of these are currently receiving Bank
assistance through four loans and one credit totalling US$495 million. In the courxe of
implementing this very large program considerable experience has been gained and
progressively incorporated in the design of each subsequent new ADP or in the redesign of in
existing ADP. The system continues to evolve taking on new initiatives and
discarding/modifying earlier ones. At this juncture, ADPs require continued financial
assistance in order to: (a) exploit fully the successful elements of their programs; (b)
overcome the constraints of inadequate resources that have limited the achievement of planned
objectives; and (c) introduce new components that address environmental and natural resource
management concerns and provide assistance to women in agriculture. FGN has asked the
Bank to help in providing such assistance.
1.3   FGN and the Bank have agreed that the practical way to maximize development
impact is through investment projects which provide support for specific ADP activities rather
than a program covering a wide range of activities for an individual ADP or group of ADPs.
Thus, the National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP), would support
activities designed to strengthen adaptation and dissemination of technological packages on
offer to farmers. A feature of this project is that in addition to financing activities in Bauchi,



Kano and Sokoto States (and Jigawa and Kebbi States)1/, which were formally appraised by
the Bank, it would contain an Agricultural Technology Support Facility (ATSF) from which
other states and agencies could draw funds upon acceptance of detailed proposals satisfying
criteria established and agreed between FGN and the Bank.
1.4   The project proposal for NATSP was prepared by FACU and was pre-appraised by
the Bank with assistance from FACU staff, in July 1990. Bank appraisal was carried out in
February-March 1991 with significant involvement of FACU staff.
IL AGRICULTURE SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.    Agricultural Sector and Economic Environment
2.1    Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Nigerian economy. It plays a key role in
supplying food for the population and raw materials for industry, while supplementing the
large export earnings from petroleum. Over two-thirds of the Nigerian labor force is
employed in agriculture, even though the sector produces only 35 percent of the GDP. The
rapidly increasing population requires that the considerable potential of the Nigerian
agriculture be efficiently harnessed to gainfully absorb the expanding labor force. The arable
land area is 71 m hectares, or about twice the cultivated area. A wide range of agro-
ecological zones permits a variety of farming systems. There are substantial surface and
subterranean water resources. Prior to the oil boom, Nigeria was a major exporter of cocoa,
groundnut, cotton, rubber and palm oil, of which only cocoa is now exported in substantial
quantities. Import substitution in agriculture and agricultural exports can become a important
supplementary sources of net foreign exchange in the future, reducing some of the dependence
on oil exports.
2.2   The sector's importance has moved inversely with the rise and fall in oil revenues.
Agriculture suffered severely during the oil boom period of the seventies. The naira
appreciated, agricultural vocations could not compete with the high urban wages and public
expenditure favored other sectors. The sector's share of GDP fell from 45 percent to 27
percent between 1970-82, while its exports became insignificant. Data quality prevents
definitive conclusions, but the decline was asymmetrically concentrated on cash crops. The
output of seven staple food crops - sorghum, millet, maize, rice, wheat, yam and cassava -
rose between 1970-82, but at an average rate of only 1.2 percent per year. Even after oil
exports fell in the early 1980s, the government maintained the value of the naira and taxed
export crops through the operations of commodity boards. A policy of cheap food imports
was also followed, resulting in a tenfold increase during the seventies. In the 1982-86 period,
good weather conditions helped some recovery in cereal production. Also import restrictions
for redressing balance of payments problems, aided consumption switch-back to indigenous
root crops and coarse grains and induced a recovery in domestic vegetable oil production.
1/Subsequent to appraisal the territory of Kano State was divided into Kano and Jigawa States
while that of Sokoto into Sokoto and Kebbi States. All further references in this text to Kano
State would include the territory of Jigawa State while Sokoto State would include the
territory of Kebbi State unless otherwise Jigawa and Kebbi States are specifically referred to.



-3 -
2.3   The incentive structure for the agricultural sector has undergone significant changes
with the implementation of policies and measures associated with the Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) introduced in mid-1986. The naira has depreciated considerably from N 1.6
= US$1 in October 1986 to N9.9 = US$1 in October 1991 with the official auctioning of
foreign exchange. This together with the abolition of the commodity boards brought about a
significant immediate increase in producer prices for several export crops. Also interest rate
ceilings on rural loans were removed, while exporters were allowed to retain their foreign
exchange earnings in domiciliary accounts for conversion to imports at any time. The
broadening of import restrictions including bans on the import of wheat, maize, rice, poultry
and animal feed was another policy measure with a potential for impact on the agricultural
sector.
2.4   These measures have had a positive impact on the agricultural sector. The total value
of exports of major agricultural commodities in 1988 was 100 percent above 1987 levels in
current naira. The export increase has been concentrated on cocoa, but the output of rubber,
palm oil and cotton has also increased. Furthermore, a number of manufacturing enterprises
have started import substitution in favor of local agricultural products, with backward
integration and investmnent in the sector. The use of local sorghum for beer brewing in place
of imported malt is an example. In the case of food crops, the picture is more complicated.
The abolition of the commnodity boards had no direct impact on food prices, and, in effect
shifted incentives in favor of cash crops. Poor weather adversely affected food output in
1987, but in 1988 and 1989 there was a recovery with good weather and favorable prices.
All prices have increased in following SAP and with the substantial devaluation of the naira.
Domestic prices rose by 10-15% in 1986 and 1987, 50% in 1988, 40% in 1989 and 15% in
1990. Food prices did not rise during the first two years of SAP, but in the last three years,
food prices have risen faster providing incentives for the food sector. The decline of real
wages, which started before the SAP, continued during 1987-90. Unemployment rates in the
urban areas have fallen since 1986 and rural unemployment in 1989 was lower than in 1986.
2.5   It is expected that in the short term exogenous factors such as oil prices and weather
conditions would continue to affect Nigeria's economic prospects. Oil accounts for 25% of
total GDP and 80 percent of total export earnings, and good prices have helped GDP to grow
between 5 to 6% growth between 1989 and 1990. Agricultural output increased by 4.7 and
4.1 percent in 1989 and 1990 respectively. Current indications suggest continued growth in
agriculture, a decline in manufacturing and heavy relince on oil exports. The Nigerian
economy will continue to require support from international creditors to be able to follow
through on structural adjustment. With Nigeria's population increasing annually by 3.4%, to
provide only a 1% increase in consumption, GDP (including the oil sector) would have to
grow by four and a half percent per annum an average that has not been seen in the last two
decades. v,ch a growth rate for GDP is possible but it would require: (a) the agriculture
sector to grow :oughly at four percent p.a. over the next five years; (b) the realization of a
slighty higher oil prices and increased export volumes; and (c) substantial debt rescheduling
and inflows of external financing to permit the volume of imports and investments necessary
for growth.
2.6    The macro-economic adjustment program, including devaluation of the naira, has
created short run problems for those agricultural activities where output price increases have
lagged behind those for input prices or where a gradual shift is needed from imported inputs
to local sourcing. During the time of structural changes associated with the adjustment



- 4 -
program, the private sector is reluctant to uindertake major investments with foreign exchange
risk. In addition, agriculture is constrained by: (a) weak agricultural services, especially
national research; (b) poor marketing and information systems; (c) low productivity of public
sector investment in agriculture; (d) imperfections in the rural finance market, which limits
access to institutional credit; (e) poorly developed infrastructure; and (f) erratic input
(fertilizer and seed) supplies.
B.    Agricultural PolicLkfs and Bank Sector Assistance Strategy
2.7   In January 1988, FGN issued a Statement of Agricultural Policy that contained or
reiterated the following key objectives: (a) attainment of self-sufficiency in basic food
commodities; (b) increased production of agricultural raw materials to meet the needs of an
expanding industrial sector; (c) increased production of export crops; (d) modernization of
agricultural production, processing, storage and distribution through the use of improved
technology; (e) increased rural employment; (D protection against environmental degradation;
and (g) improvement in basic amenities available in rural areas. FGN policies in pursuance
of the above objectives include import bans on a wide range of agricultural commodities to
encourage local production (these were introduced first at the beginning of the decade and
were relatively ineffective initially but since then control has progressively improved and the
effect of the bans is now estimated to equate to an import duty of between 50 and 75 percent);
the abolidon of all commodity marketing boards and deregulation of prices to provide
incentives to growers, especially to exporters and to the private sector in general; and
withdrawal by FGN from direct investment in production and limiting its equity participation
in any enterprise to under 25% and increasing private ownership. More recently, FGN has
announced measures to encourage direct foreign investment in agriculture and the processing
of agricultural products.
2.8    Following publication of the FGN policy document, the Bank and FGN conferred to
agree on a policy framework and operational strategy for the Bank's sector assistance to
Nigeria and a 1989 Bank agricultural sector report 2/ identified actions required to achieve
an agricultural growth of 4.5% per annum over the medium term. The actions are:
(a)   intensify efforts to improve agricultural extension, build the national research
capacity, improve quality seed supply, and streamline input distribution;
(b)    accelerate the on-going private small-scale irrigation program (mostly in
fadama areas) and develop a prioritized program of high return investments to
exploit past expenditure in the medium and large-scale sector;
(c)   launch a new fertilizer sector action plan which focusses on improved
availability, reduced subsidies, private and cooperative distribution, and
improved location-specific formulations and recommendations;
(d)   launch a new livestock sector action plan which focusses policies and
programs on achieving crop/livestock integration and improved draft power
availability;
2/ Nigerian Strategy for Agricultural Growth, Report No. 7988-UNI, December 1989.



-5-
(e)    develop an environmental action program to ensure sustained growth of
agriculture;
(f)   improve the rural marketing systems through acceleration of the program for
rural feeder roads, rural market development and increased private and
cooperative storage; and
(g)    strengthen systems to effect efficient rural financial intermediation to
encourage capital formation and increased private sector involvement in
agriculture.
The policy framework is based on an estimate that of the 4.5% increment in growth about
1.3% would arise from the expansion of private irrigation; about 1.2% from increase in area
cultivated and 2% from the use of improved technology and increased supplies and the more
efficient use of inputs such as fertilizers.
C.    Bank ODrtions
2.9    The Bank is the principal external donor to Nigeria of loans and credits for
agricultural development. Since 1975, Bank assistance to Nigeria by agricultural sub-sector
has comprised: Agricultural Sector Loan (US$9 million), Forestry (US$102 million),
Irrigation and Drainage (US$17.5 million), Livestock (US$102 million), Tree Crops (US$229
million), Fertilizer Imports (US$250 million), Seeds (US$14 million), Agricultural
Development Proiects (UJS$1.16 billion) and National Agricultural Research Project (US$78
million).
D.    Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) and Lessons Learned
2.10   The acronym ADP applies both to the set of activities financed under FGN, SG and
Bank supported area agricultural development projects and to the institutions created to
implement them. Thus in each of the 30 states, there is a SG agency generally termed the
ADP that is responsible for agricultural development activities that traditionally were the
responsibility of the SG Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). The extent
to which ADPs have taken over MANR functions varies from state to state, but in all states,
ADPs are now responsible for providing adaptive research and extension services for food and
arable crop production. ADPs were established initially in the mid-seventies because at that
time, most state MANR were perceived as weak with rigid civil service procedures generally
incompatible with the handling of a major development program that included both agriculture
and infrastructure components. ADPs were granted exemption from following some civil
service procedures - notably financial and personnel procedures - but were not made
autonomous. Most report directly to the State Commissioner for Agriculture (the head of
MANR) but in some states, where they are incorporated as a parastatal responsible for state
rural development they may be reporting to both the Agricultural Commissioner and the
Governor's Office. ADP policy is set by an ADP Executive Committee chaired either by the
State Governor or the Agricultural Commissioner with heads of other ministries and
departments as members. Most agricultural staff of ADPs have been transferred from
MANRs, and as additional MANR functions are allotted to an ADP, staff are transferred with



-6 -
them. The salary costs of MANR transferees are met directly by SG but the ADP funds other
expenses of these staff from its own budget. The ADP also recruits staff directly - usually on
contract.
2.11 The ultimate form and functions of ADP are still evolving. It has been accepted by
FGN that as infrastructure construction/rehabilitation programs are completed and handed
over to local governments the ADP will withdraw completely from the activity. Thus, the
ADP would remain the operational arm of an MANR for core activities such as extension and
adaptive research. The planning, regulation and allocation of resources within the sector
would be the responsibility of MANR. Associated with each ADP has been a Commercial
Services Unit (CSU) or Farmers Supply Company owned by SG; in some cases, these are
independent of the ADP but in others less so. The original purpose of the CSU was to ensure
a regular supply of inputs to farmers throughout the state, but with increasing liberalization of
the economy the raison d'etre of these units needs to be reviewed.
2.12   The fiuancial stringency that has followed the decline in oil revenues in the 80s and
the launching of SAP in 1986 has had its effect on recently closed or on-going Bank financed
ADPs. Constrained by naira shortages, these ADPs have had to readjust and cut-backs in
expenditure have impacted severely on less urgent components. The core programs have also
suffered somewhat. ADPs no longer receiving Bank assistance are facing serious financial
difficulties. The extension services based on principles of the Training and Visit System
(T&V) and On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) have only been recently systematically
promoted by the ADPs and therefore are not fully established. Development of these services
is proceeding slowly principally because of restricted resources. The lack of mobility of
extension workers and scientists is just one of a range of constraints. In sum, the core
agricultural services of ADPs like those in Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto remain relatively fragile
institutions despite the earlier Bank assistance. Their sustainability depends not only on
developing the capacity to help farmers improve their incomes but to do this in a manner that
is affordable by State Governments.
2.13   The Performance Audits. The PPAR for the Gusau. Gombe and Funtua ADPs 3/
noted that on the positive side agricultural production in the project areas increased at 5% per
annum compared to 1% in the rest of the country during the project period. The report
criticized the technical design of the project's agricultural component which recommended
sole crop packages with intensive use of inputs. These proved unacceptable to farmers who
instead applied selected inputs to their traditional system of mixed crops. The extension
service was not fully effective. The audit report estimated the ERRs to be 15%, an acceptable
figure but lower than estimated it appraisal. The PPAR for the Lafia and Ayangba and Bida
and Ekiti-Akoko ADPs 4/ criticized the projects' complicated design. The projects
experienced serious shortfalls in local funding which caused implementation delays. The core
agricultural development programs failed to offer affordable improved technology to farmers.
The audit judged the roads program to be more successful, and suggested that its benefits had
been under-estimated in the original analysis which had not looked at the roads program
separately. The project's autonomous management structure was questioned, with the audit
lI PPAR No. 3975.
4/ PPAR Nos. 5972 and 8557.



noting that the project units had not been re-absorbed in the state MANR following
completion. The re-estimated ERR for both projects was only 6%, but this reflected only
agricultural benefits, not those flowing from the rural roads program even though costs of the
latter had been included.
2.14   On the basis of the Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for a number of projects, it
can be concluded that all have been worthwhile rural development projects. They have
brought many benefits to farm families notably from the provision of feeder roads and water
supplies. In the case of agricultural development, however, production targets set at appraisal
have not been met in the majority of cases. The causes of shortfall are a mix of factors. The
more important appear to be: (a) until 1986, and the advent of SAP, macro-economic policies
were strongly adverse to agriculture; (b) there were limited number of technologies available
to produce sufficiently high yields to be attractive to risk averse farmers, this was particularly
so in the case of the staple food crops - sorghum, millet, cowpea and groundnuts - of the
drier northern areas where most of the earlier ADPs were implemented; (c) fertilizer supplies,
although very heavily subsidized. and thus an attractive technology for all farmers, were
usually in short supply and the situation worsened after SAP when increasing financial
constraints limited FGN and SG ability to fund the subsidy; (d) ADP-conducted adaptive
research had a very limited impact; and (e) infrastructure programs being given emphasis at
the expense of other activities due to high visibility.
2.15   The recent report by the Operations Evaluations Department (OED) to the Board on
rural development E/ specifically covered the Nigerian ADP experience, and questioned the
financial and institutional sustainability of the rural development strategy based on the ADP
concept which relied so heavily on Bank financing, parallel institutions outside the state civil
service framework, and expatriate management. The report mentioned all of the points noted
in the PPARs referred to above. In addition, the report noted that: the traditional process of
detailed project appraisal in rural development (RD) lending can cause rigidities in RD
activities, and recommended a more flexible approach (so-called "process approach"), which
provides for continual appraisal from identification through completion; and the merits of
relying on rate of return calculations for judging the success of ADPs were questioned, noting
that they may convey wrong signals to project sponsors about early production benefits which
may not be reliably estimated or conflict with equally important objectives of institution-
building and human resource development.
2.16   Since 1986, agriculture producer prices have in general increased significantly but
food prices have shown a more pronounced increase since 1988 with an accompanying rise in
production. Such data as is available tends to indicate that such increases in food supplies are
coming from: (a) an expansion in cultivated area promoted by favorable output prices; (b)
favorable weather conditions; (c) availability of improved technological packages for rice,
maize and cassava; and (d) improved extension support. The design of this project
specifically addresses the shortcomir.gs in technological support services identified by the
OED reports with emphasis on simplicity and flexibility in project design and sustainability of
the proposed program.
E/ World Bank Experience with Rural Development 1965-1986, OED Report No. 6883,
October 1987.



- 8 -
III. THE AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SYSTEM
A.    Technology Development
3.1   The Federal Agricultural Research Institutes. While some agricultural technology can
be imported and disseminated with little testing or development, e.g. simple farm and
irrigation equipment, most has to be developed by Nigerian research institutions with
emphasis on applied research - the further development of research carried out in other
countries or by international research organizations.
3.2    Nigeria has 17 FGN funded agricultural research institutions covering the main
agricultural disciplines and all agro-ecological zones. The institutes are semi-autonomous and
have been accountable to the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology (FMST)6/. In
the past, they have developed several improved crop varieties as well as improved crop
cultivation, farm forestry, livestock production and fish culture techniques. However, until
the early 1980s, most research was geared to high input agriculture, in particular, the
production of varieties that respond to high levels of fertilizer and pesticides use. While there
is a better understanding at the institutes of the constraints faced by the small farmers who
produce the great bulk of agricultural production and follow mixed-cropping system and who,
in north, integrate crop, agro-forestry and livestock production, considerably more research
needs to be directed to the specific needs of these farming systems.
3.3   The Universities. There are 15 FGN funded universities that have faculties of
agriculture or agricultural technology and two newly established agricultural universities. In
addition, three SG funded universities also have agricultural faculties. Since the fall in oil
prices in 1982, university budgets have been totally inadequate and their technology output
insignificant.
3.4   The Private Sector. The involvement of the private sector in research is limited but
growing as industries become more dependent on domestically produced raw materials.
Private corporations have contracted institutes to conduct research to meet their specific
needs, for example, development of sorghum varieties for the brewing industry. Some
enterprises have developed their own limited capacity to carry out adaptive research, for
example, cotton spinners and agro-chemical companies.
3.5   Planned Developments. The recently approved credit for the National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP) would bring needed reforms to the organization and management of
research at the institute level, as well as provide funds for the rehabilitation of research
institutes and specific research programs. A major feature would be to establish a Natiw,ial
Advisory Committee for Agricultural Research (NACAR) to ensure strong cooperation
between FMST and FMAWRRD as well as to improve linkages between all engaged in
agricultural technology development.
i/Since January 1992 FMST has been abolished and its functions taken over by the Agency
for Science and Engineering but it is yet to be clarified vhether the agricultural research
institutes would be part of this agency.



-9 -
3.6    Recommendations generated by institute and university research have to be tested and
proven through trials on farmers' fields with full farmer involvement before they can be
considered suitable for general dissemination. Such on-farm adaptive research is the
responsibility of state ADPs which are also responsible for keeping institutes and universities
aware of farmers' problems so that research programs of these institutes are properly oriented
and prioritized. The effectiveness and quality of linkage between research institutes and
farmers is a critical determinant of the ability of the national research effort to develop
technologies that average farmers will adopt.
B.    Technology Dissemination
3.7    The dissemination of most agricultural technology is through the extension services of
the State Governments. In all states, the ADP is the extension agency for arable crop
production and either uses the T&V system or is in the process of converting to it. The
village extension agent (VEA) to farm family (FF) ratios vary between 1:1,200-1,500 except
in Kano where it is close to 1:600. In an effort to improve the coverage of farm families,
FGN appears anxious to improve ratios. Data on the current status of the extension service in
Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto and key features are summarized in Annex III. The VEA:FF ratio
is 1 to 547 for Kano and 1200 for Bauchi and Sokoto. The recommended ratio is 1:1100.
3.8    Livestock and forestry extension work are normally the responsibility of the state
livestock and forestry departments, usually located in MANR but sometimes in other
ministries, e.g. the Ministry of Animal Health and Forestry in Kano. For tree crops, mostly
grown in the South, responsibility is either with the ADP or the MANR Department of
Agriculture or both. All states through the National Council of Agriculture have accepted that
there should be a unified extension service in each state. Under the unified approach, a single
village level agent, backed by appropriate Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), would be the
farmer's principal contact for the dissemination of all agricultural technology. This view is
supported by the Bank which believes such an arrangement to be cost effective. At the
operating level, however, there is some resistance to unification. This stems not only from
genuine technical reservations but also from differences in extension approach. In many
cases, VEAs have acted more than just agents of technology transfer, often handling credit,
input supply and community development. Personal considerations such as changes in status
and retrenchment are also a factor.
3.9    Unification of extension is of critical importance because, to varying degrees of
intensity, livestock, agro-forestry, fisheries and crop production are integrated into single
farming systems. As now organized, the ADPs tend to serve only one component of the
system - crop production, neglecting the issue of inter-dependency. Nevertheless, changes are
taking place. For example, under the redesign of Bank assisted Livestock 11 Project (Loan
No. 2737-UNI), ADPs in Kaduna, Katsina, Imo and Anambra would adopt a pilot unified
extension system. Livestock Department extension staff would be transferred to ADPs and
officers from the Livestock Project would join the Monthly Technology Review Meetings
(MTRMs) as Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) for livestock activities. Consultations are in
progress with the forestry and fisheries sector for similar arrangements. It is very important,
however, that when unification occurs, forestry and livestock specialists receive the same
technical back up and training that the ADP system is designed to provide for its agricultural
staff. As unification evolves, it would have to deal with issues such as linkages between ADP
and forestry research and training and veterinary services.



- 10-
3.10  Impact of Extension Services. Three technologies: use of cheap subsidized fertilizer,
fertilizer responsive improved maize and rice varieties, and small petrol engined irrigation
pumpsets (and consequently, the use of a range of improved irrigated crop varieties) have had
very high adoption rates. The available data on these rates of adoption does not clearly show
a relationship to the intensity of extension, i.e., the VEA: farmer ratio. Even if the
correlation were to be high, the importance of knowledge transfer from farmer to farmer
cannot be discounted. Thus other methods of dissemination - radio, video, television, posters
and leaflets - may be importanc additional tools that the extension service could use to
reinforce the traditional dissemination processes and to compensate for shortcomings of the
extension service. Overall, extension services have not had sufficient time to demonstrate
their full potential in the Northern States, because of technology and funding constraints, and
delays in finalizing extension methods to be used. Adequate funding and appropriately trained
staff would be a key to future impact. SGs more so and FGN are no longer able to support
the high costs of staff mobility inherited from a time when the naira was strong and domestic
funds more accessible. The NATSP would thus have to pay specific attention to bringing
costs to a more sustainable level.
C.    Research-Extension Linkages
3.11   At the Federal level, the mandate for each research institute includes the transfer of
technology to farmers through extension services of state MANRs. To achieve this, most
institutes have an Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Services (AERLS) unit or
section. Policy requires that the AERLS unit of each institute caters for the specific
commodities handled by that institute and for the immediate extension demands of the
ecological zone in which it is located. At establishment, most institute units were well
equipped but funds have not been available for maintaining equipment or for field
demonstrations and farmer visits. Thus, these sections largely became ineffective as a linkage
between research and extension. Another institution, the National Extension and Research
Liaison Service (NAERLS), under FMST, has responsibility for coordinating the overall
national planning and development of research-extension liaison activities and undertake
research into the technology transfer and adoption process including intensified use of mass-
media techniques. NAERLS acts as an external reviewer of the activities of individual
AERLS units of the institutes.
3.12   To ensure effective linkage, each ADP, depending on its agro-climatic location,
collaborates with one of five national agricultural research institutes (NARI), listed in Annex
1, which also shows links with other collaborating institutes and universities through NARI.
The basic concept is that a team comprising of staff from the research institutes (including a
leader appointed by the NARI), ADP and FACU conducts a diagnostic survey of the adaptive
research needs of the State and subsequently designs the annual On-Farm Adaptive Research
Program (OFAR) of the ADP, as well as such ADP On-Station Research work (OSR) that
maybe needed to complement it or to meet specific needs 2/. Physical implementation and
funding, including the transport and living costs of the non-ADP research scientists are
1/ Sometimes ADPs undertake additional work mainly due to the inadequate performance of
the institutes, e.g. sorghum and millet selection programs of Kano ADP. The scope of such
work, however, is generally limited.



- 11 -
responsibilities of the ADP. At the heart of the OFAR program is the Monthly Technology
Review Meeting (MTRM). The MTRM is an essential element in the backward and forward
flow of information between research and farmer. Participants in the MTRM include the
OFAR team scientists, the senior ADP research and extension officers and the ADP subject
matter specialists (SMS). The MTRM, as a regular and continuing process, is designed to
ensure:
(a)    upgrading of the technical expertise of SMS;
(b)   sensitizing of scientists to farmers' problems;
(c)   joint field visits to study farming systems and field problems; and
(d)    general review of OFAR and OSR progress.
ADPs are also able to contract institutes and universities to carry out specific research projects
on their behalf. Full costs are met by the ADP. Gradual unification of sub-sectoral extension
services is increasing the scope of MTRMs to include forestry, livestock, fisheries and
programs designed for women in agriculture.
3.13  There is full understandinig at all levels of the importance to the economy of the
development of farmer acceptable technology. However, the mechanisms and organizations
established to promote research-extension linkages need additional and better staff, improved
facilities and more vehicles and equipment. In the absence of an established system of
recognition of their contributions, several scientists from NARI and other institutes and
universities have shown reluctance to be active OFAR team members. The critical
importance of OFAR and MTRM is such that special attention must be paid to the removal of
these constraints and to the refinement of the OFAR and MTRM process. Over and above
this is the problem of obtaining and retaining appropriately skilled and motivated OFAR staff
for the northern ADPs.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
4.1    The initial beneficiaries of the project would include the Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa,
Sokoto and Kebbi States for which specific proposals to improve the technological support
services were available for appraisal. The discussion that follows, therefore, reviews the
situation in these five states.
A.    Population
4.2   Total population in the project states was estimated in 1988 at about 24.2 million
(Bauchi 4.5 million; Kano 11.1 million; and Sokoto 8.6 million). Population density is
115/km2 (Bauchi 70/km2; Kano 256/ km2; and Sokoto 84/km2). There are some 2.15
million farm households (Bauchi 0.52 million; Kano 0.85 million; and Sokoto 0.78 million).
Since 1988, population has probably grown at about 3% annually giving a total population of
around 26 million today.



- 12 -
B.    Physical Features and Climate
4.3   The project area is located roughly between latitudes 9 N and 14 N and longitudes 3
E and 12 E and straddles, from south to north, the northern Guinea Savanna, Sudan Savanna
and Sahel vegetation zones (see Map). The Sahel strip is limited to the extreme north along
the border of Sokoto with Niger Republic. Rainfall starts in May in the northern Guinea, and
in June/July in the Sudan Savanna and Sahel. The duration of growing season is from 140 to
200 days in the northern Guinea Savanna, 95 to 140 days in the Sudan Savanna, and 68 to
102 days in the Sahel. Annual rainfall ranges from 1,150 to 1,400 mm in the northern
Guinea and gradually decreases to 500 to 1,000 mm in the Sudan Savanna, and to 250 to 500
mm in the Sahel. Evapotranspiration rates are high and in recent years, decline in rainfall
appears to lhave become a recognizable trend. The whole project area is classified as either
strongly or moderately susceptible to drought. Crops and varieties with longer growing
cycles dominate the Guinea and those with shorter cycles the Sudan and Sahel zones except in
low lying fadama areas where irrigation is possible from shallow aquifers. Surveys indicate
that in Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto, there are a total of 480,000 ha of fadama suitable for
irrigation using farmer-owned irrigation equipment of which only 97,000 ha have been
developed.
C.    Farming Systems
4.4   Farming systems are mostly rainfed arable mixed cropping. Some dry season
cultivation in flood-plains and river basins (fadama) is also undertaken and usually under
irrigation. The average farm size is small, about 2 to 5 ha, increasing in size from the south
northwards. Fields are fragmented and cultivated manually but increasing number of farmers
use animal traction for ploughing. Farms are usually split into homestead, village and fadama
areas. The staple diet is cereal based with root crops of increasing importance in southern
areas. Farmers generally plant staple food crops first with the on-set of rains. A bush fallow
rotation is practiced where land is available but use of inorganic fertilizer, animal dung,
compost and crop residues are common particularly in densely populated areas where the bush
fallow option is limited. Livestock production is integrated to various degrees with the
cropping systems. Nomadic Fulani tribesmen usually manage farmers' cattle. They move the
cattle generally southwards in search of grazing during the dry season and back to northern
areas during the wet season to avoid tse-tse fly. Cattle also feed on crop residues, manuring
fields in the. process; but on homestead farms, the considerable amounts of manure produced
and used are from cattle retained the year round and from the variety of small ruminants and
poultry maintained at the homestead. Livestock is a complimentary enterprise to cropping;
farmers take advantage of any land, labor or feed resources which have no alternative use.
Despite the system's low productivity, it increases the value of the final livestock products
significantly, because in comparison to modern production methods, the use of high cost
resources and purchased inputs is very low.
4.5   In the Sahel, millet is the principal crop and staple food. The important crop mixture
is millet/sorghum. Rice, wheat and vegetables are grown under irrigation.
4.6   In the Sudan Savanna, the important crops are millet, cowpea and groundnut in the
north, although sorghum and cotton are also important. In the south, the main crops are



- 13 -
sorghum, millet and cowpea; and of secondary importance, sweet potato, groundnut and
cassava and the fadama cultivation of swamp rice and vegetables. Most crops are grown in
mixtures, the pre-dominant being sorghum/milletlcowpea, milletlcowpea, and sorghum/millet.
Groundnut is often included in these mixtures.
4.7   In the northern Guinea Savanna Zone, sorghum, millet and cov,pea are dominart in
the north, and sorghum, millet and maize in the south. Maize is rapidly increasing in area by
replacing cowpea and other crops. Fertilizer responsive high yielding waize is one of the
ADP success stories. Other crops are acha (wild rice), yam, sweet potawo, groundnut,
cocoyam, cassava and cotton. Sugarcane and rice are important fadama .rops. Common
mixtures are sorghum/millet, maize/sorghum, maize/cotton, sorghum/cowpea, and under
suitable conditions, maize/rice. Sorghum is the staple food crop.
4.8    Agro-forestry and fruit trees are planted for edible foliage, fruits and nuts, fodder,
construction timber and firewood. A range of indigenous and introduced species are used
such as Acaci albida, Adansonia digitata, Mangifera indic and Parkia biglobosa. However,
evidence from recent studies suggests that there has been a decline in the natural vegetation as
well as in farm trees due to over-felling, thus exposing soils to degradation and erosion. Fruit
trees, (mangoes, guava and citrus) which are largely planted in homesteads are popular in
highly populated areas.
4.9   Fadama farming under small-scale irrigation and the production of perennial crops in
river valleys and depressions with a high water table, has primarily been a response to market
opportunity, since crops produced - most of them in the dry season - are easily sold. Soil
fertility in fadama areas is generally above average for the locality and labor demand does not
conflict with rainfed farming. For these reasons, fadamas are intensively developed,
especially in densely populated areas. In the 1980s, the demand for dry season vegetables,
rice and recently wheat has expanded rapidly. At the same time, small-scale irrigation has
proved to be an attractive supplementary development strategy to rainfed farming in drought
prone areas. ADPs have taken the lead in implementing this strategy by providing pumps,
washbores, inputs and technical advice. The fadama farming sector is characteristically
dynamic. Farmers change crops depending upon profitability. At present, the dominant
crops appear to be perishable vegetables (tomato, onions), rice and wheat.
V. THE PROJECT
A.    Rationale and Obiectives
5.1   The Long-Term Perspective Study on Africa, 2/ Managing Agricultural
Development in Africa (MADIA) study 8/ and the Strategy for Agricultural Growth for
7/ World Bank, 1989. Sub-Saharan Africa, From Crisis to Sustainable Growth: A Long-
Term Perspective Study.
8/ A multi-donor supported study involving detailed analysis of agricultural development of
six Africa countries - Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania, Cameroon, Nigeria and Senegal, June 1989.



- 14 -
Nigeria (Report No. 7988-UNI) have all emphasized the need to strengthen the agricultural
technology generation and dissemination systems (research and extension) to provide
appropriate recommendations for sustained growth of agriculture essential to food security,
foreign exchange generation and gainful employment of the rural population. However, this
is a long-term undertaking requiring strong commitment and sustained support from the
Government and other donors. FGN believes that the ADP system continues to provide the
best means of addressing the needs of the rural population and exploiting the agricultural
sector's potential to obtain the growth needed to sustain the ongoing structural adjustment
program. The Bank's involvement in the project would be consistent with this operational
strategy.
5.2    The ADPs have successfully implemented rural development programs and extended
available technology to farmers, e.g. increased use of fertilizers, the use of small irrigation
pumpsets, improved maize, rice and cassava varieties, and new techniques for multiplying
yam seed. However, their ability to acquire and extend farmer-acceptable technology has
been constrained by lack of appropriate technologies for some of the major crops, e.g.
sorghum, millet and cowpea, of the northern tier of States, including Bauchi, Kano and
3okoto. In large part, this has been a consequence of the weakness of the national
agricultural research system 2/. Also during the early years of their existence, ADPs
concentrated adaptive research and extension programs on the mono-cropping systems
practiced by a small proportion of farmers, and provided only limited support for the major
farming systems of the States dominated by the mixed cropping systems integrated with agro-
forestry and livestock production. Therefore, the main objective of the proposed project
would be to re-orientate and improve the technology adaptation and extension activities of
ADPs to ensure that: (a) the ADP adaptive research is aimed at the development of location
specific technologies for sustainable intensification of the principal farming systems wherever
appropriate integrating messages from crops, livestock apw agro-forestry research; and (b) the
extension service is unifled to provide a better quality of cost effective service to farmers of
all categories including women in agriculture. While improvements in production and
productivity should occur in dhe short run, the principal benefits of the project will come later
as new technologies are adapted and extended.
B.      ect Design
5.3    The agricultural technology support services (adaptive research, extension, farm-level
agro-forestry and soil and water conservation) of most States - including Bauchi, Kano and
Sokoto where the present phase of Bank assistance has come to an end-require continued
development and support. However, to maximize development impact, the next phase of
Bank support would focus resources on a limited number of related activit.es, thereby
simplifying project design. In addition to providing funds for specific activities formally
prepared by the Government and appraised bv the Bank for Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto
and Kebbi States (the prinicipal project states), the proposed project would also include an
2/ Funds for strengthening of the research system are being provided through a separate
Bank assisted National Agricultural Research Project (1991).



-1S-
Agricultural Technology Support Facility (ATSF) that other States 10/ would be able to
draw upon subsequently if they presented proposals meeting speciflc eligibility criteria similar
to those jointly agreed by the Federal Government and the Bank and adopted for the Kano,
Bauchi and Sokoto components.
C.    Summary Description
5.4   The Bauchi. Kano. Jigawa. Sokoto and Kebbi Compnonents:
1.    Technical Support Services
(a)   strengthening of adaptive research along with farming systems' approach
linked to close feed-back from extension and supported by the national
agricultural research system;
(b)   rationalization and unification of state agricultural extension services and
upgrading of their operations to service all farmers on technology covering
crops, livestock, fisheries, agro-forestry and land management;
(c)   strengthening the ability of the extension service to advise on farming
activities and enterprises managed by women farmers;
(d)   adaptation and promotion of animal traction and simple farm implements for
use under upland and irrigated fadama agriculture;
(e)   adaptation and promotion of farm-level agro-forestry and soil and water
management practices to enhance sustainability of agriculture;
2.    Project Management
(a)   support for p uject and financial administration in the state implementing
agencies (SIAs);
(b)    upgrading of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation units of SlAs to improve
their capacity to keep management informed on progress of agricultural
programs and to evaluate their impact; and
(c)   support for manpower development and training activities of SIAs.
J1/   Consultations with the Government suggests that in addition to Federal activities,
some of the early states to benefit from the ATSF may include Imo, Ogun and
Kaduna.



- 16 -
5.5    Agricultural Technology Support Facility. Establishment of a process to appraise and
provide support:
(a)   technology adaptation and/or dissemination activities in other states where
either the current phase of Bank assistance is coming to an end or adequate
resources are not available for technology support activities; and
(b)    special studies or pilot programs to improve farm-level application of
agricultural technology.
5.6    The SIAs would be the Bauchi State Integrated Rural Development Authority
(BASIRDA), Kano Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (KNARDA), the Sokoto
Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (SARDA) and the ADP organisations which
are the successors to KNARDA and SARDA in the new States of Jigawa and Kebbi.
D.    Detailed Features
5.7    Bauchi. Kano. Jigawa. Sokoto and Kebbi Components:
1.    Technical Support Services
xa)    On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR). The project would provide farm and
office equipment and finance improvements to selected field testing facilities
Ach as threshing floors and sheds for cattle and equipment. These sites
would be used for a limited number cf on-station trials and provide a base of
operation for the OFAR program. Recruitment of additional scientists and
other technical support staff needed tJ operate the field trials programs
efficiently would be financed and veiciiles would be provided to ensure their
mobility. The operating costs of the field trials would be provided for the
duration of the project. Short-term consultancies on planning and review of
OFAR would also be financed by the ,roject. Funds would also be provided
for sponsored research (contract resea ..h) to be undertaken by national
research institutes at the behest of SIAs on location-specific constraints, which
do not form part of the core research prc ,ram of these institutes. In some
locations, suitable facilities for MTRMs a:Id workshops would be provided
through limited construction work and puschase of equipment.
(b)    The Extension Service. The extension activities would be rationalized and
unified under SIAs as one service so that, in addition to crops, it is also able
to provide integrated messages including animal husbandry, agro-forestry, soil
and water conservation practices and animal traction. The project would
finance improvements in existing facilities and construction of new training
halls for Fortnightly Training (FNT) of VEAs and some additional office
space at headquarters, zonal and area level locations. Necessary plant and
equipment for the FNT halls would be provided to assist VEAs to undertake
extension activities. Transport would be provided to make the extension
service more mobile. To ensure enhanced usage and closer integration of
mass communication systems with extension activities, the project would
finance strengthening of Media Units, with emphasis on low-cost activities



- 17 -
such as audio-visual program based on photographic slides and pictorial
leaflets. In addition, support for on-going radio and television programs
wvould be maintained. To improve supervision and technical content, quality
and coverage of extension work, the project would finance recruitment of
incremental staff to ensure that each rniajor discipline has a SMS at zonal
level, each block has a qualified supervisor (BES) and VEAs numbers are
sufficient to achieve a statewide minimum of 1:1,00 VEA to farm family
ratio. However, areas where cropping intensities are high and/or short
duration crops of high economic importance requiring frequent visits are
grown, more intensive extension support would be provided through a
reduction in VEA: farm family ratio to 1:500-600. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that recruitment of new BESs and VEAs would only
take place after the exact number of staff to be transferred to SIAs under the
unification plan has been finalized; in Kano and Jigawa, where the VEA to
farm family ratio has already reached 1:547, no further recruitment would be
undertaken; and participating SIAs would stabilize VEA to farm family ratio
around 1:1000 to enhance long-term sustainability.
Women in Agriculture (WIA). Gender-specific farming and post-harvest
activities, to be managed as an integral part of the extension service, would be
strengthened through provision of trained female staff at the headquarters,
zones and blocks to coordinate statewide field and training activities for
women contact farmers and w3men's groups. Salaries and allowances of
incremental staff, the costs of purchasing and operating suitable transportation,
and other operating expenditures would be met under this component. The
WIA program would, in addition to improving operational modalities and
continuing to identify specific needs of women farmers, assist through advice
on crop production techniques, animal production, food processing, nutrition
and other agro-based income generating activities.
(c)    Animal Traction and Farm Implements. The main objective of this
component would be to provide technological support to the extension service
in promoting use of animal traction and in the use of animal drawn farm
implements to overcome constraints on draft power supply during periods of
peak labor demand both in rainfed and irrigated areas. The project would
assist in rehabilitating/converting six existing facilities in the five states into
Animal Traction/Work Oxen Training Centers by providing facilities,
equipment and operational costs. The focus of the work program of these
centers would be to provide specialized and intensive training to VEAs. In
addition, short training courses would also be given to farmers interested in
becoming village level work oxen trainers as well as to others interested in
starting business as village mechanics and carpenters to repair and/or produce
simple farm implements. To facilitate introduction and promotion of simple
farm implements, the project would assist importation and local manufacture
of prototypes of simple farm tools and animal drawn implements for testing
and demonstration to farmers. This work would be undertaken by SIAs in
collaboration with national institutions having relevant expertise.



- 18-
'd)    On-Farm Agro-Forestry and Soil and Water Conservation. This farm-level
activity would provide recommendations for conserving soil and water and
improving soil fertility through biological methods-trees and vetiveria
planting in association with contour cultlvation. Valuable native farm trees
such as Acacia aLbida would also provide fuelwood, feed (foliage and pod) for
livestock. Tree and vetiveria seedlings would be produced at existing SIA and
community managed nurseries to be funded under the project. The extension
service would promote trees and vetiveria both in rainfed and irrigated areas.
Demonstration-curn-training plots would be established to exhibit benefits
from different soil conservation, moisture retention and agro-forestry
practices.
2.    Project Management
(a)    SIA Administration and Finance. The overall institutional structure and
Nigerian staff with necessary competence in most aspects of agricultural
project implementation are already in place. The project would finance
rehabilitation of office buildings and other facilities, purchase of vehicles and
office equipment for the project management units. The project would also
fund short-term consultancies for review and advice on accounting systems
and financial procedures besides meeting costs of independent audits of project
accounts and expenditures.
(b)    SIA Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Units (PMEUs). PMEUs would be
strengthened to enable them to keep state governments and SIA management
informed on the performance of the agricultural programs under
implementation and provide basic data needed to assess the impact of these
programs. The project would finance renovation of office accommodation,
short-term consultancies, and purchase of vehicles and office equipment
including desk-top computers and photocopiers.
(c)    SIA Manpower Development and Training. The project would finance short-
term consultancies, training for management, technical, extension and
administrative staff as per numbers and schedules recommended by individual
unit heads and agreed between the participating agencies and the Bank. Based
on initial recommendations of the states, a medium to long-term Human
Resource Development Plan has been prepared and would be updated annually
and govern the training programs in all the disciplines.
(d)    Technical Assistance. The project would provide short-term consultancies to
assist OFAR, extension human resource development, PMEU activities and
financial reviews. The support to OFAR component would be for entering
into contractual arrangements with institutions with recognized expertise in
farming systems research covering crops, livestock, fisheries, animal traction,
and agro-forestry activities. Similarly, PMEUs will contract with institutions
with recognized expertise in monitoring and evaluation. In addition,
specialized skills in manpower development and training will be acquired.
Advice on accounts and financial procedures would be obtained on the same
basis. The short-term consultancies or financial systems and accounts which



- 19 -
would be carried out for each SIA in PYI and PY3 for a total of 9 man-
months All others would be for 6 man-months per year for 3 years except in
the case of M&E where it would be for 5 years. Total consultancies would be
for 84 man-months.
5.8    Agricultural Technology Support Facility. To provide funds for technology adaptation
and dissemination in states where the current phase of Bank assistance is either coming to an
end or adequate resources are not available for specific technical support activities, a
Technology Support Facility (ATSF), would be established. ATSF would primarily be used
to replicate in other states components being proposed for the 5 principal project states, but
the financing would essentially be of a bridging nature in order to enable state governments to
make alternative financing arrangements. In addition, it would also finance discrete activities
or pilot programs designed to increase farmer productivity and production through acquisition,
adaptation and dissemination of appropriate technology. Three such activities on which
detailed proposals would be prepared during implementation, include: (a) rehabilitation of
facilities and operational support to the National Center for Agricultural Mechanization
(NCAM) to test and adapt animal drawn equipment and farm tools for use in Nigeria; (b)
pilot programs to develop technology and extension recommendations to minimize climatic
risks in rainfed agriculture; and (c) sustainable intensification of smallholder agriculture
integrating crops with livestock and agro-forestry activities in semi-arid zone of northern
Nigeria utilizing indigenous technology based on experiences of Kano Closed Settled Zone.
5.9    ATSF would be administered by FMAWRRD through an Agricultural Technology
Support Committee (ATSC) to be appointed by the Honorable Minister of FMAWRRD.
ADPs and other institutions requiring funds would develop their own proposals using criteria
outlined in Annex IV. FACU would provide the ATSC Secretariat and operational support
under a senior staff attached to its Program Development and Planning Department. The
Secretariat would be responsible for scrutinizing and appraising proposals either through its
own resources or with assistance from external consultants. The project would finance
purchase of vehicles, computers, office equipment, furniture and operational expenses for the
ATSC and its Secretariat, including costs of appraising proposals either through its own
resources or hired consultants.
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    Cost 13stlima
6.1   The total incremental project costs, including identifiable duties and taxes, over the
five year development period are estimated at N702 million (US$60.0 million equivalent).
This includes Technical Support Program costs of N507 million (US$43.6 million equivalent)
and Project Management Support costs of N88 million (US$7.6 million equivalent). In
addition, a Technology Sub-Projects Facility of N 107 million (US$8.8 million equivalent) is
also included. Foreign exchange costs amount to N404 million (US$34.9 million equivalent)
or 58% of total costs. Taxes and duties amount to P38 million (US$3.3 million).
Investment costs amount to N425 million (US$36.8 million equivalent) or 62% while the
recurrent costs amount to N277 million (US$23.2 million equivalent) or 38%.



- 20 -
6.2   The project cost estimates are based on March 1991 prices. Physical contingencies of
10% have been applied to all costs but excluding technical assistance, consultancy and studies,
and salaries and allowances. Price contingencies are based on domestic inflation at 20% for
1991, 15% for 1992 and 10% thereafter; and international inflation at 9.5% for 1991, 2.5%
for 1992, 4.6% for 1993 and 4.1% thereafter. Contingencies, both price and physical,
amount to 10% of baseline costs. In determining project financial costs, a nominal exchange
rate of N9.5 to US$1 has been used for 1991 with gradual depreciation to N13.2 by 1996. A
project cost summary is given in the table below. Project costs by components and by
summary accounts are provided in the tables in Annex V.



HIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRCULIURAL IECHNOLOGY SUPPORT MPOJECT
fROJECT cosT SUwRWY
(MIRA  000)                                        (USI '000)
I Total                                         Z Total
2 Foreign  Base                                 Z foreign  Base
Local    Foreisn   Total    Exchange   Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchanre   Costs
A Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi -
Tegbraick! 5.mQp        -.-. -.- ,', ,
t. AlAIIAijI'VEAREhFH                                                 24,396.7  351222.?  59,619.6          59       It   2,S68.1  3.707.7  6,275.7          59       11      rv
'. AGRICULIUFE EXTENSION                                              100t.69.4 121r370.9 2219640.2          55      43  106554.7 12,775.9 23.330.6          55       43
3. ANIMAL tIACJieN                                                     11,499.7  300327.7  41,027.4          73       0   19210.5  3,192.4  4,402.9          73        8
4. AGRUFORESFTr 4NW  SeIL ANID VAIEFR NAAGEnENr                        22,863.9  176575.5  40,439.4          43       8   29406.7  14850.0  4,256.8          43        8
8.  Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto  and Kebbi -                        159,029.6 204#497.0 363526,.6          56      70  16,740.0 21.526#0 308266.0          S6       70
Project  Management  Support
1. ADIMIlJ.hAIO'I 4111:   f INANC(                                    11,537.7  15,650.6  27,180.4          58        5   1,214.5  1r647.4  2,861.9          58       5
. ILANAHIIG6 IIJNC T'IF:ICG htNII (ALUAIION                           12,342.1  14,369.1  26,711.2         54        5   1r299.2  1f512.5  2,811.7          54       5
3. IWNFPOULE. P II''t'Jlf[tJT ANI TIFAINING                           3,050.0   6t674.6   9,724.6          69        2     321.0    702.6  19023.6          69       2
C. Technology  Support  Facility                                          26,929.0  36,694.4  639624.2          50       12   24,34.7  3,862.6  6r697.3         58       12
37,400.0  53#90740  91,307.0          59      18   3,936.0  5,674*4  9,611.3          59      18
rotal BASELINE. IOSIS                                                     223t359.5 295r098.3 5180457.8          57     100  23,511.5 31,063.0 54,574.5          57     100
flsslcal Cor.tj1.st11c1ew                                               13,402.6  19,449,8  32,852.4          59        6   1I410.8  2,047.3  3.450.1         59        6
Price ConLiar.er,csee                                                   61,225.4  89,559.2 150.784.6          59       29     284.5  1,752.2  2,036.7         86        4
lotal PROJECT COSITS                                                      297s987.4 404.107.3 702,094.7          58     135  25,206.8 346862.5 60,069.3          58     110
===:===  = t==  == = === == = = = ===== ==Z====  ======== ==Z= =Z= z=== == == ======  ===== =
Y%oe*er 11, I991  i4:3.



- 22 -
B.    ProMosed Finandnl Plan
6.3    Of the total cost of US$60.0 million, IBRD would finance US$42.5 million at the
standard variable rate of interest over a 20 year period including a five year grace period.
The proposed IBRD loan would finance 71% of total project costs, (75% excluding taxes and
duties). IBRD financing would cover 100% of foreign costs (US$34.9 million) and 30% of
local costs (US$7.6 million), with staff salaries being not eligible for such financing. The
balance of US$17.5 million would be funded by FGN and SGs (State Govermments) on an
equal sharing basis. T'he ATSF of US$8.8 million would be 75% (US$6.6) funded by IBRD
and 25% (US$2.2 million) by FGN with IBRD funds being not available to finance staff
salaries. The financing plan is as follows:
Poject Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Total       IsBR          F(N 
Buildings                        3.8          3.6         0.1          0.1
Vehicles                         8.6          7.7         0.5          0.4
Plant, Machinery and
Equipment and Planting
Materials                       10.2          9.2         0.4          0.6
Consultancies, Studies
and Training                     5.4          5.4         -            -
Incremental Operating
Costs*                          23210
Costs for Bauchi, Kano,
Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi        51.2         35.9         7.6          7.7
%                         100         70            15           15
Agricultural Technology
Support Facility                8.8           6.6          2.2          + +
%                         100         75           25
Total Project Coss                           42.5 9A         8     
%                         100         71            16           13
"Bank financing excludes staff salaries of US$4.6 million.
+ +To be determined at appraisal of sub-loans.



- 23 -
6.4   The Bank loan of US$42.5 million would be made to FGN with FMAWRRD and SGs
as the beneficiaries. FMAWRRD with FACU's assistance would oversee the use of Bank
funds. US$35.9 million would be on-lent by FGN under subsidiary loan agreements, on the
same terms as the Bank loan, to five state government as follows: Bauchi US$11.4 million;
Kano and Jigawa US$13.7 million and Sokoto and Kebbi US$10.8 million and it would be a
condition of effectiveness that e subsidiary loan agreement has been signed by the FGN with
at least one of the states; besides signing of such agreement would be a condition of
disburseMent for each state. The amount of US$8.8 million, constituting the ATSF, would
remain with FGN to finance special studies or pilot programs or allocated to individual states
under the ATSF operational procedures agreed with the Bank. Each allocation from the
ATSF to a participating SG would be under a subsidiary loan agreement similar to the one
referred to above for the 5 principal project states. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that: (a) FGN would include in the FMANR annual budget adequate provisions to meet
FGN's share of project expenditures for the SIAs of Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi
States and for special studies and pilot programs and such other programs or projects as may
be agreed to with the Bank to be funded under ATSF; and (b) the SGs would include in their
annual budgets their respective share of the expenses of the SIAs. In ordei to help ensure
Government commitment and timely funding, each SIA would open and maint. `n a Project
Account in a local commercial bank deposit into these accounts FGN's and SG's contributions
to meet project expenditures. It would be a condition of effectiveness that FGN would have
paid into the Project Accounts of each SIA an initial amount estimated to cover 50% of its
first year's contribution and would be the equivalent of US$250,000 (Bauchi State),
US$300,000 (Kano and Jigawa States) and US$200,000 (Sokoto and Kebbi States). It would
be a condition of disbursement that SGs would have paid into SIA Project Accounts the
equivalent of US$250,000 (Bauchi), US$300,000 (Kano and Jigawa) and US$200,000 (Sokoto
and Kebbi). Subsequently, FGN and SGs would pay their contributions quarterly in advance.
6.5    Secial Account, which would be denominated in US dollars would be established by
each SIA in local commercial banks into which the Bank would make initial deposits. The
amount of initial deposits for Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi State SIAS would be
US$0.5 million each would be approximately equal to about four months of eligible
expenditures. The deposits would be used solely to pre-finance goods and services which are
reimbursable under the loan. The special accounts would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Should any disbursement made from this account be found
to be ineligible for financing FGN would cause the respective state government to deposit the
corresponding amount into the account prior to submission of any further replenishment
applications.
C.    Procurement
6.6   Procurement arrangements proposed for the project are summarized in the table
below:



- 24 -
EPoposed Procurement Method
(US$ Million)
DCB         Lo             llear It
Buildings                         0.0          3.8          0.0          3.8
(0.0)       (3.6)        (0.0)        (3.6)
Vehicles                          7.9          0.7          0.0          8.6
(7.1)       (0.6)        (0.0)        (7.7)
Plant, Machinery Equip            7.2          0.5          2.5         10.2
and Planting Materials           (6.6)        (0.4)        (2.2)        (9.4)
Consultancies,                    0.0          0.0          5.4          5.4
Studies and Training             (0-0)         (0.0)       (5.4)        (5.4)
Operating Costs                   0.0          0.0         23.2         23.2
(0.0)       (0.0)       (10.0)       (10.0)
Agricultural Technology             -           -           8.8          8.8
Support Facility                                           (6.6)        (6.6)
Total                      15.1          5.0         39.9         60.0
(13.7)       (4.6)       (24.2)       (42.5)
Note: (1)   Figures in parenthesis refer to financing by IBRD.
(2)   Operating costs cover staff salaries and allowances,
vehicle, plant and equipment operating costs, general
administrative costs.
(a)    Buildis. The total amount of US$3.8 million includes expenditures relating
to construction and renovation of existing training centers, stores and offices.
Local capability exists for these type of works which would be procured under
LCB procedures acceptable to IBRD. Foreign contractors would be eligible to
bid but are unlikely to be interested given the small value of 35 individual
contracts averaging $110,000 each and their wide geographic dispersion.
(b)  QGo. Vehicles and equipment valued at about US$18.8 million would
wherever possible be grouped into contracts valued at US$200,000 or more,
and would be procured through ICB procedures following IBRD procurement
guidelines. Goods valued under US$200,000 but above US$60,000 would be
procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IBRD and these would
include replacement motor-cycles, air-conditioners, electricity generators,
agricultural equipment, office equipment and furniture, and survey equipment.
Items valued under US$60,000, but in aggregate amounting to not more than
US$2.5 million would be procured through prudent shopping based on at least



- 25 -
US$2.5 million would be procured through prudent shopping based on at least
three price quotations and these would include tree seedlings and nursery
equipment.
(c)    Consultancies. ets. Consultant services, Studies and Training totalling US$5.4
million would be procured in accordance with IBRD guidelines for use of
consultants. The appointment of all consultants and technical assistance staff
would be with the concurrence of the Bank and amendments in their terms of
reference or service conditions including premature termination would be with
the Bank's prior 'no objection". Both domestic and overseas training would
be ;n accordance with schedules agreed annually with FACU and the Bank.
(d)   Incremental Operating Costs. Expenditures totalling US$23.2 million
covering staff salaries and allowances, and operating costs and would follow
normal government procurement procedures and relevant documents would be
attached to SOEs and would be available to review by IBRD supervision
mission and external auditors.
(e)    The procurement method for each sub-project under the Agricultural
Technology Support Facility would be determined according to the needs of
each proposal but would observe the thresholds and procedures adopted for
the 5 principal project states as described in paragraphs 6.6 and 6.7 of this
SAR and would be first cleared with the Bank's Regional Procurement
Adviser.
6.7    All procurement under LCB (goods and civil works) would be required to: (a)
incorporate advertisements soliciting bids in at least 3 local newspapers; (b) undertake public
bid opening dates and venue of which would be announced together with the advertisement
soliciting bids and any subsequent changes being announced similarly; (c) award contracts to
the lowest evaluated bidder on the basis of pre-disclosed criterion; (d) apply no local
preference; and (e) Pot preclude foreign bidders from participation. All bidding packages and
contract awards estimated at US$200,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review by
IBRD. The remaining contracts would be subject to random post review after contract
awards.
6.8   In order to facilitate the procurement process which in the past has been one of the
main reasons for implementation delays, assurances were obtained at negotiations that each
SIA would have a Procurement Officer whose qualifications and experience would be
acceptable to the Bank. Each SIA had also made available before negotiations a Procurement
Schedule for the period of the project. Payments made for expenditures for Civil works and
Consultancies, Studies and Training up to $1 million equivalent incurred after December 31,
1991 and before the date of the Loan Agreement would be eligible for retroactive financing
upon compliance with the above procurement procedures.
D.    Disbursement
6.9   The proceeds of the proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed over an estimated six
years which is about a year earlier than the standard disbursement profile for the agricultural



- 26 -
Amount of Loan      % of Expenditures
CagQ                      to be Disbursd       to be Disbursed
1. Buildings                      3.0          100% of foreign expenditure
or 95% of total expenditure
2. Vehicles,  Equipment,                       100% of foreign and 90% of
Spare Parts and Planting          15.5         local expenditure
Materials
3. Consultancies, Studies         5.0          100%
and Training
4. Operating Costs a/                          60% of total expenditure up
9.5         to $6 million, and 40% of
total expenditure on balance
5. Agricultural Technology                     Similar percentages as
Support Facility                               shown for other categories
6.3         in this table on approval of
sub-projects 11/ except for
50% of total expenditure for
operating costs.
6. Unallocated                    32
42.5
1/ Excluding staff salaries.
.i/ See para 5.8 and 6.4
6.10 Disbursements of all expenditures would be based on full documentation, except for
force account, salaries and contracts for goods and services of value less than US$25,000
which would only require statements of expenditures (SOEs). The project agencies would
have adequate staff and controls for the preparation of SOEs, for which supporting
documentation would be kept for review by external auditors and Bank supervision missions.
Assuran  were obtained at negotiations that within 3 months of loan effectiveness each SIA
would engage a firm of financial consultants to review (a) the adequacy of staff skills and
resources for producing project accounts of proper quality and in time for meeting auditing
deadlines, and (b) possibilities of refining/amending the accounting system and financial
procedures to better meet project needs; and that this review would be completed and
discussed with the Bank no later than 6 months from loan effectiveness.
E.    Auditing, Accounting and Reforting
6.11   Participating agencies would maintain their accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial positions and would have the
accounts including Special Accounts and SOEs, audited by a firm of independent external



- 27 -
E.    Auditing. Accountin and Rporting
6.11   Participating agencies would maintain their accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial positions and would have the
accounts including Special Accounts and SOEs, audited by a firm of independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts and the auditor's report, including the
Management Letter (Long Form), and a statement as to whether or not Bank funds had been
used for their intended purpose would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end
of the fiscal year of each SIA.
6.12   By September 30 of each year starting with 1992, NATSP implementing agencies
would submit to FMAWRRD, with a copy to the Bank, annual work programs and budgets
using a uniform format to he introduced during the first year of the proje;.  which would
adequately portray project activities, unit costs, benefits and productivity and provide the basis
for proper management of the project and the establishment and operation of a sound project
accounting system. The budget proposal would include quarterly cash flow statements.
Procurement of goods and civil works would specify source of funds, timing and procurement
methods (whether ICB or other) and would be accompanied by an updated Procurement
Schedule for the remaining life of the project. FMAWRRD would examine, approve and
consolidate into one national program for submission to the ministry responsible for the
federal budget to agree on the level of annual funding, financial plan, and allocation of
resources. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by November 30 of each year
starting from 1992, FMAWRRD would submit to the Bank for comment a copy of the
NATSP program and budget for the coming year.
6.13   Each SIA would submit quarterly reports and management accounts to FMAWRRD
and IBRD showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of progress achieved and the
objectives for d.t forthcoming quarter by each project component. Quarterly reports would
contain summaries of to-date expenditures and use of funds by source plus a forecast of
withdrawal of Bank loan proceeds by quarter for the immediate forthcoming year and by year
thereafter.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Bauchi. Kano. jigawa. Sokoto and Kebbi Componenits
7.1    Overall Organization and Management
(a)    Fedeal!Coordinading Role. FMAWRRD, assisted by FACU and APMEU,
would be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the project
implementation through participating SIAs. FMAWRRD plays a crucial role
in the budgeting process, ensuring that the agreed level of Federal funds are
budgeted annually for all Bank supported projects in the sector, and also that
the funds are then released quarterly to the entities. It coordinates input from
other Federal Ministries and agencies through a Projects Coordinating
Committee (PCC). Establishment of this committee was agreed under the
MSADP II (Ln. 2988-UNI) and later its role was enlarged to include MSADP



- 28 -
III (Cr. 2035-UNI) such that it now provides support to all Bank assisted
ADPs. The PCC is chaired by the Director FDA, FMAWRRD. Its other
members include: Directors of Federal Departments responsible for
Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries; Director, Agricultural Services Department
(ASD), FMST; Chairman of the Committee of Directors of National
Agricultural Research Institutes; all Program Managers of ADPs; Chairman
Committee of Deans of Faculties of Agriculture; Head of Units of FACU and
APMEU; and one representative of Farmer Organizations. FACU would
provide the secretariat to this committee. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the PCC would also provide support to NATSP along with other
on-going ADPs and resolve any coordination issues that may surface.
(b)    State Level Organization and Management. In each state, the existing ADP
Executive Committee (ADPEC), chaired by the State Governor or his
nominee, would oversee the operations of the NATSP. Other members of the
ADPEC typically include State Commissioners for Agriculture, Local
Government, Finance and Economic Planning, the Works and Transport,
Commerce and Industry; the Secretary to the State Government (and Head of
Service), the Director of FDA, the Director of ARMTI, the Head of FACU,
the General Manager of the relevant River Basin Authority, the State Director
of DFRRI, the Director General MANR, and the SIA Chief Executive
(Managing Director or Program Manager). ADPEC would meet at least once
every two months for the first two years of the project. No changes would be
required in existing structures, procedures and responsibilities that are
generally appropriate. However, to improve linkages with other state agencies
at the operational level, the project would have an Agricultural Programs
Liaison Committee (APLC) with the State Commissioner for Agriculture as
Chairman. Its other members would include representatives of state
departments responsible for Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries;
Bank assisted Livestock II and Forestry 11 Projects; Farmers Supply
Company, a Farmer Organization; and the SIA Chief Executive, the SIA
Department of Agriculture Head and the FACU Regional Head. This should
address the general complaint that other agencies at the state level are not
always aware of SIA plans and operations. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi States would establish
APLCs no later than December 31, 1992.
(c)    SIA Management. The Program Management Unit (PMU) of each SIA would
be responsible for managing NATSP activities in each state. The PMU
incorporates heads of both operational and service units of the SIA. The
operational departments most directly involved with the NATSP would be: (i)
Agricultural Services; (ii) Fadama Development; and (iii) Land Use Planning
and other non-extension technical activities. Support services would be
provided by the central departments including: (i) administration; (ii) finance;
(iii) manpower development and training; and (iv) planning, monitoring and
evaluation. SIA administration and technical services are decentralized into
zones and this structure would be maintained under the NATSP. The zones
are broadly based on agro-climatic conditions, and a zonal manager
responsible for all agricultural activities in the zone. The proposed



- 29 -
organization of each State implementing organization is shown in Annex IX.
The implementation arrangements for Bauchi State would however be
restructured. Assurances have been obtained that BASIRDA, the Bauchi State
implementing organization, would carry out the Bauchi components of the
project through its Agricultural Development Program (BSADP) Unit acting
under the direction the Bauchi Agricultural Development Program Executive
Committee which would be- reconstituted with the Bauchi State Governor as
Chairman and two members representing FMAWRRD12/. This wili
provide for BSADP to be an almost autonomous unit within BASIRDA which
has a very wide span of activities, including rural electrification and social and
community development, which would otherwise tend to reduce the
importance given to agricultural operations. To assess the impact of these
arrangements, assurances have been obtained that Bauchi State would carry
out jointly with FMAWRRD and the Bank by June 30, 1993 a review of the
organizational arrangements supporting the carrying out of Bauchi State's
components of the project and would by December 31, 1993 put into effect
recommendations emanating from the review. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the key p;oject staff including the Program Manager,
Financial Controller, Heads of Agricultural Services, Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation and Manpower Development and Training and the
Procurement Officer, would be appointed with conditions of employment,
qualification and terms of references satisfactory to the Bank; and the
appointment of the Program Manager, the Financial Controller and the Head
of Agricultural Services along with his two deputies responsible for Adaptive
Research and Extension would be condition of disbursement.
7.2  OQeration of the Technologv Supoort System
(a)    OFAR. OFAR is a part of the nationwvide network on farming systems
research. Under this system, each state is assigned to one of the five areas
(zones) corresponding with those of the National Farming Systems Research
network. The activities in each zone are coordinated by a National
Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) with resource persons drawn from
other collaborating institutions. In the case of Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto, the
Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) at Zaria is the coordinating
institution. The list of collaborating institutions and their broad
responsibilities, adaptive research cycle and a diagram showing pathway for
flow of information between research, extens;on and farmer are given in
Annex I. Based on experience from previous projects, the operational
procedures used by OFAR teams are now well established. The OFAR staff
would be located in each of the major agro-ecological zones of the state and
interact regularly with extension workers and farmers in the area.
12/BSADP was an autonomous unit implementing the Bank-assisted Bauchi State Agricultural
Development Project (Ln. 1981-UNI) until it was brought under the purview of BASIRDA.
Experience in Nigeria and elsewhere and also in BASIRDA shows that a wide array of non-
agriculture activities tends to reduce the importance given to agricultural operations and leads
to a lower impact in the sector.



- 30 -
Accordingly, OFAR teams in SIAs would operate in close collaboration with
the national research system. Key features of the operational procedure for
OFAR activities include: diagnostic surveys of typical farming systems to
determine key constraints; identification of available technology to solve the
diagnosed problems; commencement of on-station and/or on-farm adaptive
trials to confirm recommendations; assist development of a plan for Small Plot
Adoption Trials (SPAT) to be implemented by the extension service; review
of findings in MTRMs; analysis of data from SPATs and formulation/revision
of recommendations. To ensure work is carried out on location-specific
problems which cannot be tackled by the SIAs and which do not form part of
the core programs of Research Institutes, SIAs would finance sponsored
research by institutions with appropriate expertise. Problems falling into this
category would be identified during implementation of the project. Farmer
influence on determining priorities for adaptive research would be achieved
through: (i) membership of a farmer representative in the APLC; (ii) regular
interaction with OFAR staff based at the zonal level and with extension
workers; (iii) consultation during diagnostic surveys; and (iv) farm level
technical constraints identified by extension workers during MTRMs. OFAR
teams would be responsible for organizing pre-MTRM field visits and
MTRMs with the assistance of collaborating institutions (Research Institute
and/or University) who would identify and ensure participation by the
resource persons. An annual adaptive research workshop, jointly organized
by the SIA, collaborating Research Institute and FACU, would be held to
review results from on-station and on-farm trials, findings of diagnostic
surveys, results from SPATs and to develop work program for the following
year. During the workshop, research results ready for transfer to the
extension service would also be identified. Before adoption, new
recommnendations would be reviewed by a Technical Committee composed of
representatives from OFAR team, collaborating institutions, concerned
divisions of FMAWRRD (Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry), the Extension
Service and a representative from farmer organizations. These
recommendations would also be reviewed during the annual workshop.
Major topics of research for rainfed and irrigated areas would include:
improvements in mono and mixed cropping systems through adaptation of
improved varieties/crop mixtures and/or agronomic and cultural practices and
fertilizer trials; evaluation of integrated farming systems incorporating agro-
forestry with nitrogen fixing leguminous shrubs, crops and livestock;
adaptation of recommendations for fodder bank establishment being developed
by NAPRI and Bank assisted Livestock II project along with testing of
research findings on utilization of crop residues for animal fattening and
animal waste as organic manure; coordination of animal traction work; testing
of methods of establishment of selected tree species and interaction of trees
and crops; role of woody species in biomass production for fuelwood, fodder,
green manure and soil enrichment under traditional farming systems; effect of
various vetiver grass planting techniques on water and soil conservation.
Annex II summarizes the key findings from past adaptive research undertaken
by the three SIAs which are the basis for new recommendations being



- 31 -
promoted by the extension service and outlines proposed priorities for future
work.
FACU, through its regional OFAR coordinators, would promote the sharing
of experience, skills and resources between the OFAR teams of the different
SIAs. Upon completion of the annual workshops FACU would arrange for
the 3 OFAR teams to meet and share on-station and on-farm trials results and
discuss ways and means of reducing duplication, maximizing sharing of
skilled staff who are in short supply and jointly entering into twinning
arrangements with selected institutes for improving the quality of OFAR
planning, implementation and analysis and staff training.
(b)    Animal Traction and Farm Implements. Implementation of this component
would be coordinated by the OFAR team in collaboration with selected
national institutions. First, the testing of appropriateness of currently
available equipment and other animal drawn implements for land preparation,
harrowing, inter-cultivation, threshing, water-lifting etc. would be organized
by the OFAR teams, if necessary, under sponsored research contracts with the
Agricultural Engineering Department of IAR and/or the National Center for
Agriculture Mechanization based in Ilorin. The assistance of ILCA's Animal
Traction program for West Africa would also be sought. In northern parts of
Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto, a large proportion of farmers own work oxen and
utilize them for land preparation. In southern parts and fadama areas of these
states, however, the frequency of ownership is much less but the demand is
increasing due to shortage and high cost of hired labor and escalating cost of
cultivating land with tractors. Following re-design of the Bank assisted
Livestock II Project, funds on term credit are being made available for the
purchase of work oxen and traction implements. SIA animal traction/work
oxen training centers would be administered by the Manpower Development
and Training Departments. Training programs would be developed and
conducted by OFAR staff attached to the training centers. The main thrust of
the courses would be to train extension workers and village oxen trainers.
They will, in turn, promote the use of work oxen and associated implements
and provide the necessary training to farmers. At negotiations, asuranc
were obtained that required sponsored research agreement(s) with selected
national institution(s) would be signed by July 31, 1992 to test and adapt
available animal'drawn or manually operated implements in the rainfed and
irrigated areas of the project.
(c)    Agro-Forestry and Soil and Water Conservation. This component, to be
managed by the Technical Services Division of the Agricultural Department of
an SIA, would promote low cost technologies suitable for smallholders. A
special emphasis would be placed on the use of: agro-forestry species for
alley cropping, wind breaks and contour hedges; promotion of fruit trees for
establishment in fadama and upland areas; use of vetiver grass along contours
to stabilize soil, control erosion and conserve moisture. Since the impact of
this component would depend on the adoption rate of recommended
technology, the extension service would play a crucial role in promoting the
use of fruit trees and agro-forestry species and slips of vetiver and



- 32 -
disseminating messages to farmers. To enable extension workers to undertake
this task, strong emphasis would be placed on providing technical support to
and training of extension workers both at headquarters and zonal level prior to
demonstration to farmers. Close working r ,lationships would be established
with research institutes and other agencies operating in this area, to ensure
that latest findings from technical work are used in formulating/testing
extension messages. The extension workers would be familiarized with
different types of trees in terms of what they produce, their environment
protecting function and role in existing agricultural systems. Training on how
to get seedlings, how to plant and maintain them would also be provided. The
SIAs would keep in close touch with related ongoing programs such as the
Bank-assisted Forestry II Project and the EEC Environment Prograrn. Agro-
forestry activities be coordinated by the Ministry responsible for forestry in
each state with the bulk of seedling production being undertaken by Forestry
II nurseries. The SIAs would supplement seedling production through existing
and communit' nurseries to fill the forecasted gap between demand and
supply. State ministries and Forestry II do not charge for agro-forestry
seedlings and SIAs would in the interim follow this practice but would work
to support only community nurseries where lab^: and maintenance are the
responsibility of the farmers and the plant species propagated are selected by
the farmers. During negotiations assurances were obtained that SIAs would
sell fruit trees at prices to recover operational costs in the first year of the
project with full costs being recovered from Project Year 4.
(-d)    Extension Service. In line with Government policy, provision of extension
advise to farmers would be unified under SIAs and operated on the T&V
principles. The proposed structure of the service after unification is given in
Annex III. It includes provisien for the service to broaden its area of
coverage to include advice on crop and livestock production, agro-forestry,
soil and water conservation practices, animal traction and use of animal drawn
and/or manually operated farm implements. Integrated extension messages
would be promoted in consultation with relevant Subject Matter Specialists
from within and outside SIAs. Completion of transfer of all identified
extension staff from other state agencies to SIAs under the unification plan
would be a condition of disbursement against individual participating states.
The gains made through past investment w6uld be consolidated and quality of
service provided to farmers improved through: systematic planning and
prioritization of extension activities; provision of mobility and other work
related tools to the extension workers to run a professional service; selection
of suitably qualified staff especially SMSs; improvements in VEA to farm
family ratios to provide effective coverage in relation to agro-ecological
potential of zones and allocation of available resources to meet the specific
needs of farming communities; preparation of a medium to long-term Human
Resource Development Plan, and provision of training to resource and
extension personnel with a focus on updating and/or upgrading of their
professional skills; increasing two way exchange of information with farmers
and increasing their involvement in extension activities through farmer groups
and sharing of responsibility for technology transfer with leading farmers



- 33 -
identified by the group and closer liaison with local administrative and
traditional leadership; enhanced collaboration with the private sector and
NGOs; improved focus of M&E activities, especially to assess impact of the
extension service; strengthening of research-extension linkages through
diagnostic surveys, in-depth discussion of farm-level technical constraints
during MTRMs and exchange of staff between SIAs and research institutions;
and promotion of research on extension methodologies, use of mass media,
gender specific and other sociological issues.
With a view to providing intensive farm coverage and increasing adoption rate
of extension messages, the use of mass communication systems would be
intensified in support of regular extension activities. Low cost audio-visual
programs based on photographic slides would be produced in relation to the
cropping calendar and used as the basis of discussion with farmer groups
involving a contact/lead farmer as the moderator supported by the extension
worker. Their work would be underpinned by leaflets depicting extension
messages in pictorial form. In addition, support for the radio and television
programs currently in place would be continued. However, to minimize costs
and maximize impact, FACU with the help of NAERLS would coordinate
greater exchange of audio visual, radio and television programs participating
between SIAs.
The WIA Program, to be operated as an integral part of the extension service,
would focus its support on production and post-harvest activities performed by
women farmers which would be confirmed through special surveys. In parts
of Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto, there is strong inhibition for male extension
workers to interact directly with women farmers. In these areas, women
VEAs would advise women farmers and select some of them as contact and/or
SPAT farmers. The proposed increases in female extension workers at HQ,
zone, block and village would enable good coverage. To reinforce direct
visits by extension workers, mass media and work with women's group would
be emphasized. It is anticipated that women VEAs would spend up to 70% of
their time in educating women farmers in agriculture production activities and
30% supporting processing and utilization of agricultural produce.
(c)    Research-Extension Farmer Linkages. Although both the NARP and this
project would initiate actions to enhance farmer influence on research, the
major channel for linking research and farmer would be the SIA managed
unified extension service of the state MANR. At the Federal level, the state
extension programs would be supported and monitored by FMAWRRD
through its operational departments including Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry
and Fisheries with coordination being undertaken by FACU (para 7.3).
The two fundamental linkage mechanisms for strengthening research-extension
would be the On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) (details discussed under
7.2(a)) and the Monthly Technology Review Meetings (MTRMs). MTRMs
are now an integral component of the SIA technology transfer system and
enable SMSs and Extension Officers to meet regularly and frequently with
agricultural researchers to review actual farm conditions and technological
needs on a specific locational and seasonal basis, and for researchers and



- 34 -
SMSs to agree on the appropriate technical recommendations to be provided
by extension for the coming one month. It is also intended that researchers
will receive in the meeting, direct and systematic feedback on farmers
reactions to recommend technology. The MTRMs would continue to be
attended by all SMSs together with two to three scientists of the institute
actively involved in research for the main crops of the zone. These contact
scientists participate on continuous basis and would be joined by other
specialists who act as resource person for specific meetings. To enhance their
effectiveness, MTRMs would be: (i) conducted like interactive workshops to
encourage two-way flow of information between research and extension; (ii) a
broader cross section of research scientists would be encouraged to participate
especially to provide coverage of issues relating to livestock, forestry,
fisheries and soil and water management activities; (iii) agenda taken up
during MTRMs would be prioritized with emphasis on fee 'ack from field
experiences and development of appropriate technical messages; (iv) increased
use of modem communication, technology, e.g. videos, to record farmer
activities, farmer interviews and general field conditions for review during
MTRMs; (v) greater participation by women scientists and women SMSs; (vi)
allocation of some MTRM time to field visit and discussions with men and
women farmers; and (vii) improved system of recording of subject dealt at
MTRMs with a view to identifying farmer constraints and impact points.
(d)    Extension, Effectiveness and Sustainability. Not only must the cost of
operating the extension system be within the means of government, it 1iust
also be seen to be bringing actual benefit to the farming population. Staff
mobility is a major cost in extension. The cost of staff mobility would be
controlled through (i) using less capital intensive transport arrangements, (ii)
using vehicles with low operating costs, and (iii) maintaining a tight
supervision on vehicle use and maintenance costs. The project would provide
a fewer number of 4-wheeled vehicles and, where needed, replace these with
motorcycles, which would be less expensive in both capital and operating cost
terms. Actual vehicle operating costs in some SIAs appear to be substantially
higher than those in the private sector, even after allowing for poor road
conditions in many rural areas. To exercise better control of costs and vehicle
use, each vehicle (excluding motor-cycles) will be allocated a fixed monetary
budget for fuel and lubrication costs, batteries and spare parts and service and
repairs and a record kept of actual expenditures. The financial controller of
each SIA would include a review of vehicle operating costs in the quarterly
report. In terms of tailoring activities to the needs of the rural population, it
would be planned that in each year at least two of the VEA fortnightly
training sessions would include selectad contact farmers who would provide
their assessment of the impact of the extension activity and what the farmers
would like to be included in the extension program. Frequency and timing of
visits would be discussed with the objective improving impact and reducing
costs. The record of these discussions would be transmitted to the SIA Chief
Executive for a summary record in the quarterly report.
7.3    FACU Support. FACU's main role would be to assist SIAs in the implementation of
the technological support system being proposed under the project. FACU headquarters and



- 35 -
its regional offices are staffed with technical staff who would: (a) jointly with the
collaborating NARI, participate in the formulation of adaptive research and MTRM programs;
(b) monitor implementation of OFAR and extension activities; (c) assist in the identification
and integration of technological information from different disciplines into recommendations
based on farming systems perspective; and (d) to promote interchange of information and
experiences between SIAs.
7.4   Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation.  Although financed under the NATSP, the
PMEUs would cover all SIA activities. They would ensure that work plans are consistent
with agreed objectives and priorities, and collect data in order to monitor the progress and
evaluate the effectiveness of these activities.
7.5   There is an insufficient understanding of the role of the PMEUs by departmental and
unit heads, and this partly explains why these continue to remain relatively weak and
ineffective. Also contributing to this are the inadequate links that the PMEUs have with the
other project components (e.g. extension and adaptive research). Thus, under the NATSP,
the PMEUs would participate in all project activities (including the MTRMs and OFAR), and
have representation on the APLC. The modalities for this would be determined during
project implementation.
7.6   Planning is the weakest of the three PME components (i.e. planning, monitoring and
evaluation), a consequence of which is that work programs are generally poorly implemented.
Thus, while the project would strengthen all three components, particular attention would be
paid to improving the capacity of the planning section to coordinate the work programs and
budgets of the different project and SIA components, and integrate these with the overall
plans of the state MANRs. The strengthening of the PME components would be undertaken
principally through a careful determination of the qualifications, skills and experience required
for the recommended complement of staff positions, and filling these positions with suitable
candidates. Gaps in the skills of current incumbents would be filled through in-service
training.
7.7   Further, the data collection and analysis functions of the PMEUs continue to be
characterized by weaknesses. In particular, some of the baseline information (especially on
land use) used to arrive at production estimates is now outdated. Similarly, there is a need to
ascertain the correct sample size for surveys. Also, the PMEUs still appear to be collecting
more information than is necessary, or can be conveniently analyzed. Thus, a careful
enumeration of the variables for which data needs to be collected and analyzed at a minimum
in order to effectively monitor and evaluate the project impact would be undertaken and the
data collection and analysis process streamlined. To the extent that the weaknesses in the data
collected by the PMEUs are ascribed to enumerator mobility and supervision problems,
motorcycles/mopeds would be provided to a core of permanent enumerators and supervisors.
7.8   Provision would also be made for technical guidance to the PMEUs on the design of
surveys and impact studies, as well as on undertaking data analysis. While the PMEUs would
continue to receive such guidance from APMEU and FACU, linkages would be developed as
well between the projects and national universities. Cooperative programs would also be
developed between national and international un,versities in order to strengthen the capacity of
the former to support the projects. APMEU would organize a workshop for the 5 SIAs,
within 3 months of Board approval, to establish the type of assistance that would be required



- 36 -
by the SlAs and what portion of it would be provided by APMEU and what would be the role
of other institutions. Finally, resource centers would be established so that the information
developed by the PMEUs is easily accessible. In addition to project documents, these
resource centers would also maintain relevant national and international journals and
publications from the field of development.
7.9    Training and Technical Assistace. The project would put in place a systematic in-
service training program to reflect emerging changes and needs in technology and policy
areas. The highest priority for training would be aimed at strengthening of management and
technical capacity of staff at all levels through in-house and external (including overseas)
courses. The training program for each SIA would be coordinated by a Manpower
Development and Training Department (MDTD). In consultation with each operational unit,
it would be responsible for: (a) managing in-house training activities; (b) establishing
procedures and criteria for determining staff training needs; (c) preparing criteria for selecting
training programs and candidates; (d) developing procedures for evaluating training activities;
(e) identifying suitable training institutions for external in-country and external courses; (f)
organizing a record-keeping system for trainees. While the training program for extension
staff would be executed by the Extension Division, the MDTD would cooperate and
participate with the extension department in planning and implementing the training program.
National institutions such as NAERLS and ARMTI would be extensively used to conduct in-
country extension training programs. The MDTD would be headed by a qualified senior
training officer, who, with the assistance of other unit heads, would update the Human
Resource Development Plan on an annual basis which govern the training to be financed
under the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Human Resource
Development Plan would be updated annually and the annual training program for each
participating agency would be submitted to the Bank for agreement starting from January 31,
1992.
7.10   No long-term technical assistance is proposed under the project. The Government
agencies in the past have, however, had difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequately
experienced and qualified financial controllers due to higher incentives in the private sector
and shortage of qualified applicants. If at the end of the financial review (para 6.10) an SIA
needs technical assistance, this would be obtained through contractual arrangements with a
Nigerian financial management consultant firm and only if the required expertise is not
available locally, would expatriate recruitment of financial advisors take place. In view of the
highly specialized needs of the adaptive research and monitoring and evaluation activities,
where professional skills as well as continuity are very important, institutions with appropriate
expertise would be identified to provide short-term consultants. In the case of adaptive
research, qualified staff from these institutions would make at least two visits a year for the
full duration of the project. Similar support would be provided to PMEUs. In addition,
short-term consultants for specific studies, especially to support extension and human resource
development activities, would be hired as needed. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that by June 30, 1992, the SIAs would enter into contractual arrangements at terms and
conditions, terms of reference and qualifications agreeable to the Bank with selected
institutions to support adaptive research and planning, monitoring and evaluation activities.



- 37 -
B.    Agricultural Technology Sunport Facility
7.11   Agricultural Technology Support Committee (ATSCI. ATSC would be responsible
for the administration of the facility. The chairperson of the committee would be the
Director-General, FMAWRRD. It would additionally consist of: Directors of the Federal
Departnents of Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry, and Planning, Research & Statistics;
Chairman of the Committee of Directors of Agricultural Research Institutes; Four Program
Managers of ADPs (selected by the PCC); Chairman of the Committee of Deans of Faculties
of Agriculture; Heads of FACU and APMEU; and one other person as the Minister of
FMAWRRD may appoint.
7.12   ATSC Secretariat. FACU would provide the secretariat to service the ATSC. Head
of FACU would be assisted by the Program Development and Planning Department where a
discrete cell (consisting of a coordinator at GL14, a Technical Assistant at GLO8 and a
secretary at GLOS) would be established to provide the day-to-day support. Establishment of
the ATSC and its secretariat would be a condition of disbursement against the facility.
7.13   Operation of the ATSF. Proposals would be first scrutinized by the ATSC Secretariat
and appraised by a team of specialists using criteria established jointly by the Government and
the Bank. These would essentially be similar to those used for appraising the Kano, Bauchi
and Sokoto components. The team will comprise of FACU specialists, augmented with
additional external consultants whenever necessary. A list of suggested eligibility criteria for
sub-projects is given in Annex IV. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the first five
applications for financing under the ATSF would be sent to the Bank for agreement after
FACU appraisal and approval by the ATSC; thereafter, only proposals costing more than
US$1 million would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval after ATSC clearance. This
threshold would be reviewed after 2 years of projec' Leration.
C.    Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
7.14 FACU, with the assistance from SIAs and APMEU, as appropriate, would prepare a
progress report on the project which would form the basis for the mid-term review to be
undertaken jointly by the Government and the Bank. The review would focus on assessing
the success of the technology support system in adapting and disseminating new messages to
farmers to improve total farm productivity and in promoting sustainable use of land and water
resources. Progress in strengthening of PMEUs and implementation of training programs
would also be assessed. Implementation of the ATSF component would be reviewed against
agreed objectives, criteria and operational procedures. At negotiation, assurances were
obtained that FACU would coordinate preparation of comprehensive progress reports by the
participating agencies for the mid-term review of the project which would be completed no
later than December 31, 1995 by a joint Government/World Bank team.
7.15   The Proiect Completion Report (PCR) to be prepared by APMEU, would assess: (a)
achievements of the project in relation to its objectives; and (b) field impact of the new
approach adopted under the project where the funds for to the technology support services,
are being provided through a national program and ATSF using ADPs as the implementing
agencies supported by the specialized agencies of FMAWRRD (FACU, APMEU, ARMTI,



- 38 -
NLPD, FORMECU). The PCR would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after completion of the project.
D.    Iwrlementatlon Schedule
7.16   During the first year of the project, emphasis would be on achieving unification of
extension services and improving quality of the OFAR and extension programs. Limited civil
works, rehabilitation of infrastructure and procurement of most of the vehicles, field and
laboratory equipment would be completed during the first two years of the project.
Applications for financing under the ATSF would be invited from the second project year
onwards. A bar chart showing implementation schedule for key activities is given in Annex
VIII. Bank supervision mission timing and nature is provided in the same schedule. The first
Bank supervision mission will cover all 5 principal project states and would agree with the
SIAs, APMEU and FACU on a list of performance indicators to assess the development
impact and the institutional effectiveness of the project entities.
VIII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
8.1   The economic analysis in this chapter shows that the major project benefits are likely
to be associated with the expansion of irrigation, and adoption of the improved practices for
irrigated rice and wheat. Although there is doubt over the validity of using economic rate of
return calculations for justifying extension projects because of the difficulty of estimating
adoption rates, nevertheless it does provide some insight into production possibilities and
growth potential. The overall rate of return for the project comes out to be 17 percent when
account is taken of the risks accompanying rainfed farming in northern Nigeria, It is
postulated that in one out of every five years, rainfall will be inadequate and while the yields
of the irrigated crops will decline by 20 percent; the prices of the non-traded crops are
assumed to increase in such years. The estimation of the economic rate of return assumes
that (a) the irrigated area, and consequently the area planted to the improved practices of rice
and wheat (the dominant wet and dry season irrigated crops) would increase by 5 percent each
year; and (b) the area of the rainfed crops brought under the improved practices would
increase by 2 percent each year. The assumption of 5 percent annual growth in the irrigated
area is reasonable in view of the recently-appraised Fadama Development Project and the
possibility of Bank support for the development of medium- and large-scale gravity irrigation.
8.2    The financial analysis (conducted in terms of the domestic prices actually faced by
farmers which include a large subsidy on fertilizer) indicates that the improved practices for
most individual crops and crop mixtures would be profitable at the farm level. The
profitability comes out to be especially high when the labor input is not priced, and the
analysis is undertaken in terms of the returns to labor. As a result of the assumed rates of
adoption, the incremental area covered by the improved practices would amount to almost
one-half of the total crop area in the three states at full development of the project (the
twentieth year). Total production in the project area would increase by some 41 percent, or
at an annual rate of 1.7 percent over the 20 year life of the project. This is close to the
contribution of 2 percent that is expected by the 1989 Strategy for Agricultural Growth



- 39 -
(Report No. 7988-UNI) from improved technologies towards a targetted annual agricultural
growth rate of 4 percent.
A. Determinants of Benefits and Costs
1. Input Use and Crop Yields
8.3    The crop models constituting the basis for the project financial and economic analysis
are presented in Annex V. Eight of these models are for crops produced in sole stands: one
each for irrigated rice, irrigated wheat, maize, millet, sorghum, cowpeas, groundnuts and
cotton. There are six mixed-crop models, encompassing combinations of maize and cotton;
maize and sorghum; millet and cowpeas; millet, sorghum and cowpeas; millet and sorghum;
and sorghum and groundnuts.
8.4    The improved practices encapsulated In these models are comprised of better crop
husbandary (plant populations, land preparation, weeding, etc.), increased fertilizer use, the
use of improved seeds, and (in the case of cotton and cowpeas) the application of insecticides.
In addition, for irrigated rice and wheat, it is assumed that there will be better water control
and greater intensity of water use (as reflected in a higher input of labor for irrigation). For
these two crops, land preparation is deemed to be performed by tractors in the case of both
traditional and improved practices.
8.5    Labor is the main input under both traditional and improved practices. For the
traditional practice for all rainfed crops produced in sole stands or mixtures (except cotton),
labor valued at the market wage rate accounts for 80 percent or more of the total input costs.
The share of labor declines to 60 percent in the case of the improved practices (again for all
rainfed crops, except cotton) as that of other inputs (especially fertilizer) increases. For
cotton (given the relatively high levels of fertilizer and insecticide used), the share of labor in
total costs amounts to 70 percent for the traditional practices and under 50 percent for the
improved practices. Because of the costs associated with water use, tractor hire, and chemical
inputs, the share of labor in total input costs amounts to only around 55% for irrigated rice,
and around 40 percent for wheat in the case of both traditional and improved practices. The
postulated models assume that the adoption of the improved practices for most sole crops and
crop mixtures would entail a two- to threefold increase in per hectare fertilizer use. The
implications of the project for total fertilizer and labor requirements are considered below.
The assumed increases in the labor input (in physical terms) as a result of the adoption of
improved practices range from 30-40 percent for most sole crops except cowpeas where these.
could be 140 percent. These increases range between 30 and 50 percent for the crop
mixtures. In the case of cotton, labor use is assumed to remain more or less unchanged, and
the yield increase is ascribed almost wholly to increased fertilizer and insecticide use.
8.6    For the crop mixtures, per hectare yields are expected to be 20-70 percent higher
because of the adoption of the improved practices. For crops produced in sole stands, the
largest proportional increases in per hectare yields as a result of the adoption of improved
practices are for cowpeas. As shown below, cowpea yields are assumed to increase almost
fourfold, while the increases for the other sole crops range between 50 and 75 percent.



- 40 -
Crop Yields for Traditional & Improved Practices
Traditional     Improved
Practices      Practices            % Increase
(kglha)        (kg/ha)
Rice                                  1,500           2,500                67
Wheat                                 1,200           2,000                67
Maize                                 1,000           1,500                50
Cotton                                 600             1,000               67
Millet                                  500             800                60
Sorghum                                 800            1,200               50
Groundnut                               400             700                75
Cowpeas                                 300            1,100              267
Maize/Cotton                        700/400        1,200/700            71/75
Maize/Sorghum                       700/300        1,200/500            71/67
Millet/Cowpeas                      500/200         700/300             40/50
Millet/Sorghum/Cowpeas          500/400/200     600/600/300          20/50/50
Millet/Sorghum                      400/300         600/500             50/67
Sorghum/Groundnuts                  400/400         600/500             50/25
2.    Prices
8.7    Domestic market prices. The financial analysis below is based on the crop prices
prevailing in the rural areas of Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto during 1990 (Annex V, Table 1).
Inasmuch as the available price data relate to the retail level, they have been deflated by a
factor of 0.80 in order to account for transaction costs and arrive at farmgate prices. The
farmgate prices range narrowly from 3,000 to 3,500 Naira per metric ton for rice, wheat,
cowpeas and groundnuts, and from 1,300 to 1,400 Naira per metric ton for the three coarse
grains (maize, millet, and sorghum).
8.8   Import parity prices. The economic analysis is based on the border prices of crops
(Annex V, Table 1). For the non-traded crops (cowpeas and millet, in addition to sorghum of
which the type produced in Nigeria is not traded internationally), the domestic prices used in
the financial analysis are adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0.85 to obtain border
prices. On the other hand, for rice, wheat, maize, groundnuts and cotton, import parity
prices are computed on the basis of world market prices adjusted to reflect international and
domestic transport and other transaction costs. An exchange rate of 11 Naira to a dollar is
used which, although over 20 percent higher than the official exchange rate of 9 Naira, was
roughly the rate obtaining in the parallel market in 1990. The import parity price comes out
to be higher than the domestic price for groundnuts, cotton and maize. While the difference
is small in the case of groundnuts, the import parity price is almost twice as high as the
domestic price for maize, and about one-fourth higher for cotton. In contrast, the domestic
price exceeds the import parity price for rice and wheat, but only slightly in the case of rice
and by about 10 percent in the case of wheat.
8.9   Input Prices. As the earlier discussion of the crop models underlying the financial
and economic analysis indicates, labor is by far the most important input. Thus, the



- 41 -
agricultural wage rate will be a critical determinant of the project benefits and costs. The
wage rate used in the financial analysis for all operations is 20 Naira a day, which was the
rate prevailing in northern Nigeria in 1990. This constituted a two-fold increase from 1988
(10 Naira) in response to higher crop prices and the increased demand for farm labor. For
the economic analysis, the wage rate of 20 Naira is adjusted by the standard conversion factor
of 0.85 to arrive at the border price for agricultural labor of 17 Naira a day.
8.10   After labor, fertilizer is the next most important input used in Nigerian agriculture. It
has been heavily subsidized by the Federal Government, and its price in 1990 included a
subsidy of roughly 85 percent. Thus, while its official 1990 price of 400 Naira a metric ton
is used in the financial analysis, it is priced at full cost in the economic analysis (2,667
Naira). For other inputs (seeds, insecticides, pesticides, and bags), the standard conversion
factor of 0.85 is applied to the local prices used in the financial analysis in order to obtain
border prices for the economic analysis. The same is done for the operational costs,
including the charges for irrigation, tractor hire services and local transport.
B. Farm-level Financial and Economic Analysis
8.11   This section considers the farm-level profitability of the improved practices postulated
by the models in Annex V. Three aspects are considered: (a) the relative profitability of
different crop enterprises; (b) the returns to labor; and (c) the effect on profitability of a
potential removal of the fertilizer subsidy, and of the use of border prices for outputs and
inputs.
8.12   The Profitability of Crop Enterprises. The incremental benefits and costs (in 1990
prices) associated with the adoption of the improved practices for the different crop
enterprises are presented in Annex V, Table 2. The ensuing benefit-cost ratios for sole crops
generally attest to the profitability of the improved practices at the prices actually faced by
farmers (millet is an exception). The highest ratios are for irrigated wheat (2.09) and rice
(1.61) , followed by maize (1.55). Cowpeas and cotton have benefit-cost ratios of around
1.5, and groundnuts and sorghum of around 1.4.
8.13   The computed benefit-cost ratios are less attractive for most crop mixtures, the
production method generally preferred by Nigerian farmers. While high for the maize/cotton
and maize/sorghum combinations (1.89 and 2.0, respectively), they are 1.2 and 1.28 for the
millet/sorghum/cowpea and millet/sorghum combinations, and just above one for the
millet/cowpea and sorghum/groundnut combinations.
8.14   Returns to Labor. In determining the profitability of different crop enterprises, the
above analysis has valued all labor at the market wage rate (i.e., at 20 Naira per day). In
reality, however, much of the labor used in crop production consists of family labor. Thus,
farmers' perceptions about the profitability of improved crop practices are likely to be
influenced by how these practices affect the financial returns to labor.
8.15   Estimates of the returns to each manday of labor for the different crop enterprises are
presented in Annex V, Table 3. As it shows, the returns to labor exceed the wage rate of 20
Naira for all sole crops and crop mixtures (except millet) under both the traditional and
improved practices. The highest returns are for wheat under both the traditional and



- 42^
improved practices (39 and 51 naira, respectively). The incremental benefit-cost ratios
computed for the improved practices In terms of the returns to the labor input are above 2 in
all cases, except sole cotton (Annex V, Table 4).
8.16   Fam-Level Profitability Using Border Prices for Outputs and Inputs.
Annex V, Table 5, considers the effect on the farm-level profitability of the improved
practices if border prices are used for inputs, while financial prices continue to be used for
outputs. This is done essentially to see how a removal of the fertilizer subsidy might affect
profltability. The benefit-cost ratios for several crop enterprises, including a number of crop
mixtures, and sorghum and millet, decline to under one. Thus, the implication is that without
a subsidy on fertilizer, it may not be profitable for farmers to adopt the improved practices
for these crops. When border prices are used for both inputs and outputs, the benefit-cost
ratios for the crop mixtures in question, as well as for sorghum and millet, decline further
(Annex V, Table 6). This means that with the removal of input subsidies, and the
liberalization of output markets, adjustments may be needed in cropping patterns. The ratios
for the mixtures including maize, however, increase substantially because of the extent to
which the border price of maize exceeds its domestic price. Although to a smaller degree, the
ratio for cotton also increases for much the same reason. Inasmuch as the computed benefit-
cost ratios indicate that rice and wheat production is profitable even at border prices, it is a
reflection of the degree to which the exchange rate for the Naira has depreciated. While an
exchange rate of 11 Naira to a dollar is used in the current analysis, the 1989 Nigeria Strategy
for Agricultural Growth Report had concluded on the basis of an exchange rate of around 7
Naira that wheat production, and to a lesser extent rice production, were not profitable.
C. Project Economic Analysis
8.17   In addition to the assumptions about output and input prices discussed above, it is
further assumed that:
(a)    the project would be initiated in 1992 and benefits would accrue with a lag of
one year;
(b)   the project would have a life of 20 years;
(c)    the investment period is five years;
(d)    following the assumption used in the economic analysis for MSADP II (Loan
No. 2988-UNI), recurrent expenditures in the sixth year are assumed to equal
one-half of the total expenditures in the fifth year; they are assumed to
increase by five percent a year thereafter through the 20th year (see Annex V,
Table 7);
(e)    all prices are expressed in 1992 constant Naira terms (this conversion is
performed in order to make the first year of the project the base year for the
analysis);
(t)    the opportunity cost of capital is 12 percent.



- 43 -
8.18   The economic analysis Is conducted in terms of the adoption of improved practices on
incremental areas (i.e., it is assumed that these practices have not been used before on those
areas in any form). The input and output parameters for sole crops per the postulated models
(Annex V) are used, and the returns and input costs computed for individual crops are added
across to arrive at the aggregate picture. It is assumed that the improved practices
encapsulated in these models would be adopted in their entirety on new areas as a result of the
project efforts. As noted earlier, the improved practices are deemed to be adopted
incrementally on 5 percent of the crop area each year in the case of irrigated rice and wheat,
and on 2 percent of the crop area each year in the case of the rainfed crops.
8.19   It is assumed that in one out of every five years, there will be insufficient rainfall, and
the yields of the rainfed crops will decrease by 20 percent, although those of irrigated rice
and wheat will remain unaffected. It is further assumed that as a result of these yield
decreases, the prices of the non-traded rainfed crops (sorghum, millet and cowpea) will
increase. On the assumption of a price elasticity of demand of -0.5 (and a perfectly inelastic
supply), the price increase amounts to 40 percent for each of these crops. The resulting
economic rate of return is 17 percent.
D.    Implications for Fertilizer and Labor Use
8.20   Fertilizer use. Fertilizer is a critical component of the package of improved practices
to be propogated by the project. Thus, the availability of fertilizer in the required quantities
will be an important determinant of the project benefits. Annex V, Table 8, considers the
effect on fertilizer requirements of the assumed adoption rates for the improved practices.
The incremental fertilizer requirements translate to an annual compound growth rate of 7
percent over the 1990 level of fertilizer sales in the 3 states which totalled 247,000 metric
tons. Thus, given that the national demand for fertilizer is projected to increase by 8-10
percent a year, the incremental requirements entailed by the project are not exceptional.
8.21   Labor requirements. Shortages of labor are not expected to impose a constraint on
the adoption of the improved practices, and the realization of the project benefits. The
estimated number of farm households in the three project states totals almost two million.
Assuming that each household comprises of three adult equivalents, this denotes almost six
million units of family labor. Against this, the number of units of labor required to enable
the adoption of improved practices at the assumed rates is less than 5 million (in accordance
with the crop budgets presented in Annex V). Indeed, on the assumption that the rural labor
force will grow by 2 percent a year, this implies a surplus of more than 4 million units of
labor in the project's twentieth year. This, of course, does not consider the demand for labor
during peak periods (e.g., land preparation, and weeding). The promotion of animal traction
and small farm implements, for minimizing labor shortages at such times, is a project
objective.



v 44 -
IX. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATIQN AND RISKS
A.    Benefits and Justification
9.1    The major benefit of the project would be the streamlining and strengthening of the
technology adaptation and dissemination systems in the participating states. In particular,
strengthening of linkages with research, unification of extension services along with
development of integrated extension messages covering the major farming systems involving
crops, livestock, fisheries and agro-forestry would enable the technology support services to
contribute much more effectively towards the overall objective of raising agricultural
productivity and income of smallholders. In this respect, this project would complement other
Bank supported activities in the agricultural sector, especially the National Agricultural
Research Project and forthcoming National Fadama Development Project, whose success so
heavily depends on the ability of state extension systems to adapt and disseminate affordable
and appropriate technologies to smallholders.
9.2   In addition to rainfed agriculture, the technological support for irrigated agriculture
would enable many farmers to double their cropping intensities with little or no risk of crop
failure due to drought and provide greater food and financial security. Although, the project
is not designed to increase the number of persons employed in agriculture, the technological
packages to be promoted and the overall trend towards intensification of agriculture would
increase demand for labor. The emphasis to be given to promotion of animal traction for a
range of farm activities including irrigated crop production in fadama areas would help to
reduce labor shortages during peak demand periods while raising productivity of off-season
labor.
9.3    Nigeria, whose agriculture is an important part of the economy must have strong
technological support services at the ADP leve: to adapt affordable and appropriate
agricultural technology to increase food production for its growing population, improve rural
income and re-establish agriculture's past pre-dominant role in export earnings. Even the
technology generated by the national research system requires testing and, in most cases,
modification and adaptation to meet the location specific needs of farmers which can only be
accomplished by an effective and efficient technology support system. However, the extent of
technological improvements, the rate of their adoption by farmers and resulting productivity
gains cannot be accurately predicted and are likely to vary significantly across the agro-
ecological zones. Moreover, future gains would be attributable not only to farm level
technical support activities but also to combined impact of all the other support services
(research, input supply and credit) and the general macro-economic environment.
B.    Riks
9.4    The main risks would be the organizational and operational difficulties resulting from
unification of the extension services, inadequate counterpart funding, lack of appropriate
technologies leading to lower than expected adoption rate by farmers and weakening of the
implementation capacity of some of the agencies.



- 45 -
9.5   To overcome any resistance to unification of extension services, endorsement for this
policy has been obtained at the highest level in the Government and has full support of
participating states U/. Intensive consultation with State MANRs and other affected
agencies have been carried out throughout the process leading to project appraisal and would
be continued until the unification is complete and fully operational. To overcome initial
adjustment difficulties of field staff being transferred to the SIAs, special orientation courses
are planned. it is expected that provision of mobility, equipment and intensive training would
counter any potential morale problems and motivate staff to achieve higher professional
standards.
9.6   To overcome problems relating to counterpart funding, assurances have been obtained
from the Government that expenditure for technological support services would be expanded
as needed in order to cover all project costs by the end of the project. This commitment
would be further reinforced through Bank's sector and economic dialogue with the
Government.
9.7   To ensure development of appropriate and affordable technologies, the Bank is
assisting the Government to strengthen the research system through a free standing research
project. In addition, relevance of research would be further improved through strong
research-extension linkages and strengthening client's influence on research policy and
programming. Improved planning and greater consultation with farmers would ensure that
extension messages relate to their needs. Adoption of farming systems approach and
extensive small plot on-farm demonstrations supported by intensive mass-media support would
help greater adoption of extension messages. Implementation capacity of participating
agencies would be reinforced through staff training greater supervision and provision of
expertise in critical areas. At the same time, Bank's future lending operations aimed at
further improving incentives to farmers, input supplies, credit and marketing should also take
care of the non-technical constraints inhibiting technology adoption.
C.    Environmental Effects
9.8    The major focus of the technological support services would be to identify and
recommend technologies which optimize productivity while safeguarding environment and are
consistent with farming systems practiced by the majority of farmers. The sustainability of
intensive smallholder systems in semi-arid parts is a critical issue due to variable rainfall
which has diminished by about 25% since the relatively wet 1960s, soil of moderate to poor
fertility and a population needs to be augmented with a shift from low input - low output to
higher input - higher output system. Experience of Kano Close Settled Zone (KCSZ), a small
area within Kano State, where population density exceed 350/km2 indicate that progress can
be made in this direction under conditions of indigenous technical knowledge. The system as
followed by smallholders integrates crop production with agro-forestry and livestock.
Findings from a detailed study on the nature, rate and effective limits of intensification in the
farming system of this zone show that the key features that enhance sustainability include: (a)
13/The National Council of Agriculture which is chaired by the Federal Minister of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development and has all the State Agricultural
Commissioners as members has endorsed this policy.



- 46 -
intensified use of labor and fertility enhancing inputs including use of farm yard manure and
chemical fertilizers; (b) use of fallow system eventhough declining in duration and on a small
part of land; (c) use of improved varieties which fit into the mixed cropping-raising livestock-
farm forestry system; (d) use of trees not only as a source of timber, brouse and shade but
also as a sound basis for soil protection. Thus, the approach being proposed under the project
to develop recommendations integrating findings from crops, livestock and agro-forestry
research as well as knowledge gained from experience of indigenous farmers provides the best
chance for sustainable intensification of agriculture. Soil and moisture conservation
techniques would utilize simple and cost effective techniques such as contour planting along
with hedge planting of vetiver grass (Vetiveria nigratana), which is available locally and can
be readily multiplied through vegetative propogation. As compared to mechanical cultivation
systems, the project's animal traction component involving promotion of work oxen along
with animal drawn implements would be more cost efficient, in the long-term, less damaging
to the soil structure. Increased use of animal traction and appropriate mechanizationt would
enable timely land preparation and planting, thus reducing labor demand peaks, improving
crop establishment and growth and providing farm yard manure to improve organic matter
content of soil.
9.9    Overall usage of agricultural chemicals to control pest and diseases in Nigeria is
relatively low. With the traditional and improved varieties of sorghum and millet currently
under cultivation, no pesticides are used and this situation is unlikely to change in the near
future. New varieties and hybrids of maize are tolerant to the most important crop protection
problem - the streak virus. The crops with significant pest problems requiring use of
pesticides, mainly insecticides, are cotton, cowpea and rice. To minimize the use of
pesticides in these crops, the project would promote: (a) increased use of tolerant varieties
when available; (b) adaptation of integrated pest management systems, especially for cotton
and cowpea, based on recommendations available or likely to be available from the national
or international research systems; and (c) cultural practices able to avoid or minimize pest and
disease incidences.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.1   During negotiations with the Government, agreements were obtained on the following:
(a)   recruitment of new BESs and VEAs would only take place after the exact
number of staff to be transferred to the state implementing agencies under the
unification of extension plan has been finalized; in Kano, where the VEA to
farm family ratio has already reached 1:547, no firther recruitment would be
undertaken; and the participating SIAs would stabilize VEA to farm family
ratios around 1:1000 to ensure long term sustainability (para 5.7.1(b));
(b)    FGN would include in the FMAWRRD annual budget amounts adequate
provisions to meet FGN's share of project expenditure for the SIAs of Bauchi,
Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi and for special studies and pilot programs
and such other programs or projects as may be agreed with in the Bank; and
SGs would include in their annual budgets their respective share of the
incremental expenses of their SIAs (para 6.4);



-47 -
(c)    Within 3 months of loan effectiveness the SIAs of Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa,
Sokoto and Kebbi States would each engage a firm of financial accountants to
review (i) the adequacy of staff skills and resources for producing project
accounts of proper quality and in time for meeting auditing deadlines; (ii)
possibilities of refining/amending the accounting and financial procedures to
better meet project needs; and (iii) that this review would be completed and
discussed with the Bank no later than 6 months from loan effectiveness (para
6.10);
(d)    By November 30 of each year starting from 1992, FMAWRRD would submit
to the Bank for comments a copy of the NATSP program and budget for the
coming year (para 6.12);
(e)   the Projects Coordinating Committee would provide support to NATSP (para
7. 1(a));
(f)    Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi States would each establish an
Agriculture Programs Liaison Committee by December 31, 1992 (para
7. 1(b));
(g)    Bauchi State would carry out jointly with FMAWRRD and the Bank by June
30, 1993 a review of the organizational arrangements supporting the carrying
out of Bauchi State's components of the project and would by December 31,
1993 put into effect the recommendations emanating from the review (para 7.1
(c));
(h)    key project staff would be appointed with conditions of employment,
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.1(c));
(i)   required Sponsored Research agreement(s) with selected national institution(s)
would be signed by July 31, 1992 to test and adapt available animal drawn or
manually operated implements to prevalent conditions in the rainfed and
irrigated areas of the project (para 7.2(b));
(j)    SIAs would sell fruit trees at prices to recover operational costs in the first
year of the prorject with full costs being recovered from Project Year 4 (7.2
(c);
(k)   the Human Resource Development Plan would be updated annually and the
annual training program for each participating agency would be submitted to
the Bank for agreement starting from January 31, 1992 (para 7.9);
(I)    by June 30, 1992, SIAs would enter into contractual agreements on terms and
conditions, terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank with
selected institutions to support adaptive research and planning, monitoring and
evaluation activities (para 7.10);
(m)   the first five application for financing under the ATSF would be sent to the
Bank for agreement after FACU appraisal and approval by the ATSC and all



-48 -
applications costing more than US$1 million would be appraised by FACU
and submitted to the Bank for approval after prior clearance by ATSC (para
7.13); and
(n)    FACU would coordinate preparation of comprehensive progress reports by the
participating agencies for the mid-term review of the project which would be
completed no later than December 31, 1995 by a joint Government and World
Bank team (para 7.15).
10.2  The conditions of loan effectiveness would be the following:
(a)   that the Federal Government has paid the project accounts of the SIAs initial
amounts to the equivalent of US$250,000 (Bauchi), US$300,000 (Kano and
Jigawa) and US$200,000 (Sokoto and Kebbi) (para 6.4); and
(b)   that subsidiary loan agreements between the Federal and State Governments
have been signed for at least one state (para 6.4).
10.3  The following would be the conditions of loan disbursement:
(a)    a Program Manager, a Financial Controller and Head of Agricultural Services
along with his two deputies responsible for Adaptive Research and Extension
would have been appointed by the participating states with conditions of
employment, qualification and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(para 7.1(c)); and
(b)   the State Governments have paid into the Project Accounts of their respective
SIAs the equivalent of US$250,000 (Bauchi), US$300,000 (Kano and Jigawa)
and US$200,000 (Sokoto and Kebbi) (para 6.5);
(c)   transfer of all identified extension staff from other state agencies to the SIAs
under the unification plan would have been completed by the participating
states (para 7.2(d)).
(d)   the Agricultural Technology Sub-Projects Committee and its Secretariat would
have been established before disbursement of funds from the ATSF (para
7.12); and
(e)   the subsidiary loan agreements between Federal and Scate Governments would
have been signed (para 6.4).
10.4   On the basis of the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable for an
IBRD loan of $42.5 million to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.



-49-                       ~~~~~~~Annex -I
Page 1 of 5
PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIOERI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
The Technolooy Adaotation and Dissemination System
A.   Collaboratina Institutions in the On-Farm Adaptive Research/Monthly
Technoloav Review Mostine Notwork
Zone                 Coordinating         Stat*/ADPs            * Other
Institute            Covered              Collaborating
Institutions
South-East           National Root        Akwa-Ibom,            Univ. of
Crops Research       Anambra, Cross       Nigeria, Imo;
Institute            River, Imo,          State Univ.,
(NRCRI)              Rivers               FUT, Owerri;
Umudike                                   Univ. of
Calabar, Univ.
of Cross
River, RSUST
Port Harcourt
and FACU,
Enugu
South-West           Institute of         Lagos, Ondo,          U.I. Ibadan,
Agric.               Ogun, Oyo,           UNIFE; UNIBEN,
Research and         Bendel               Lagos State
Training                                  College of
(IAR&T) Ibadan                            Technology,
Ogun State
Univ.; FUT
Akure, NIHORT,
Univ. of
Agric.
Abeokuta,
NIVOR, and
FACU, Ibadan
Middle-Belt          National              Benue, Kwara,        Univ. of
Cereals              Niger, Plateau       Agric.
Research                                  Makurdi;
Institute                                 UNILORIN,
(NCRI),                                   UNIJOS, NRCRI,
Badeggi                                   Vom, FACU
Kaduna, FACU
Benin and FACU
Joe
North-East           Lake Chad             Bomo Gongola         Univ. of
Research Inst.                            Maiduguri and
(LCRI)                                    FACU Joe
Maiduguri
North-West           Institute of          Kaduna, Kano,        AERLS, Zaria;
Agric.               Katsina,             NAPRI Shika;
Research (IAR)       Sokoto, Bauchi       ABU,
Zaria                                     UNISOKOTO,
FACU Kaduna
and FACU Joe.



-50-
Annex I
Page 2 of 5
NOTE:  FUT      -    Federal University of Technology
RSUST   -    Rivers State University of Science and Technology
NIHORT  -    National Institute for Horticultural Research
NIFOR   -    Nigerian Institute of Oil-Palm Research
NAPRI   -    National Animal Production Research Institute
*    In addition, support to the national network is also being provided
by the Livestock and Forestry Departments of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources through Bank assisted projects
Livestock IS (Loan No. 2737-UNI) and Forestry II (Loan No. 2760-UNI).
B.   Roles and Resoonsibilities of the Collaboratina Institutions
The National Aaricultural Research Institutes (NARII would:
(a)  Provide the Zonal Coordinator for all OFAR activities in the zone.
The Zonal Coordinator may appoint representatives to the respective
ADP OFAR teams.
(b)  Provide technical support and relevant back-up training for Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs) of the ADPl.
(c) In collaboration with FACU and ADP, design,  Implement, and monitor
research extension and training projects of the ADPC as mutually
agreed by the institute, the ADP and FACU.
(d)  Make available promptly all relevant research results to assist ADP
officials in the implementation of project activities.
Universities/NARI Sub-Stations
(a) Provide leadership of ADP OFAR teams under the overall responsibility
of the Zonal Coordinator.
(b)  Collaborate in the discharge of NARI responsibilities as outlined
above.
Aaricultural Develonment Project (ADpj
(a)  Provide the financial resources for OFAR as agreed in the budget for
the OFAR project.
(b)  Provide transportation for the OFAR team and for successful
implementation of the OFAR project.
(c)  Provide materials for MTRM training and allowances for the resource
persons required.
(d) Provide staff and space for the conduct of research-ADP trials (on-p
station and on-farm).
Federal Acticultural Coordinatino   Unit (FACUI
(a) Link up the collaborating institution in OFAR and facilitate the
implementation of agreed activities.



-51-
hAnnai 
Page 3 of s
(b)  In collaboration with NARI and ADP, coordinate research extension,
and training activities agreed upon by the collaborating
institutions.
(c) Arrange meetings and workshops to review pre-season and end-of-season
OFAR activities.
(d) Assist in ADPs the publication of reports and information generated
through OFAR activities.
C.   Prooosed On-Farm Adaotiv. Research and Training Activity Cycle and
Institutions ReXsonsible for Action
Activity                    Process                     Institution
Responsible for
Action
1.   Research
Planning and
R isn
(a)  Identification,       Diagnostic Surveys,         ADP/NARI/University/
definition and        Monthly Technology          FACU
prioritization        Review Meetings, and
of problems and       Field Visits
opportunities
(b)  Identification         Inventory of               NARI/University/FACU/
and listing of        technologies                ADP
probable and
possible
solutions to
commonly-
defined
problems
(c)  Selection,            Review and Planning         ADP/NARItuniversity/
formulation and       Workshops                   FACU
design
(including
costing) of ADP
on-farm and on-
station trials
(d)  Release of            Development of agreed       ADP/FACU
approved funds        program and timetable
to NARI for            for various actions
MTRH support
2. Efterimentation
(a)  Execution of           Trials on farmers'          ADP/NARI/Contact
trials (on-farm        field, field stations       Farmers
and on-station)        and multi-locational
testing
(b)  Monitoring of          Joint supervisory           FACU/ADP/NARI
Trials                 site visits, monthly        University



-52-
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
and quarterly
reports, mid-year
review and planning
workshop
(c)  Trial Data             Processing                  ADP/NARI/Univeruity
Analysis
(d)  Review of              Annual Review and           ADP/FACU/NARI
trials results         Planning Workshop           University
and formulation
of recommenda-
tions
(e)  Small Plot             Small plots in              ADP Extension with
Adoption Trials        several farmers'            support from OFAR
fields in different         team
locations
3.   TrainLna
(a)  Identification         Annual Work Plan            ADP/FACU
of training
needs and
training
institutions
(b)  Training               Training                    ADP/FACU/NARI
proposals,                                         University
resourcing and
implementation
(c)  Training               (i) Monthly                 NARI/University/ADP
(types)s  (i)         Technology Review
Subject Matter         Meetings
Specialists and
Research               (LL) Special short          Various
Officers               courses
(iLLi) Orientation          ADP/FACU
training NARI
(ii) Research          (i) Pre-season              ADP/FACU/NARI
Assistants and         traLning
TechnicLans
NARI - National Agricultural Research Institute
FACU - Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
ADP - Agricultural Development Project



-53-
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
D.    Technology Development Dissemination and Feedback Pathway
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Basic Research
(Specialized institutions
mainly international some national)
I__________
App2lied Research                                      -
(Replicated; field oriented;                               C  z
detailed observations)
-T  - | o-~~I 
On-Farm Adaptive Research
Location specific                                f 
(Single replication; farm
land; simple records)
A
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z    
Small Plot Adoption Techniques                     I     e
Leading to formulation of extension messages                  W
(Single plots; farmer                         4
managed; simple observation)
4,~~~~~~~~~~~-
Technology Dissemination and
Widespread Farmer Adoption
(General farmer uptake:
socio-economic evaluation)



-54-
AlmUx II
Page 1 of 12
FED)ERAL ItEPULIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURA  TECHNOLOGX SUPPRT PROlECT
Ka Findings froM Past Adaptive Research and Priorities for
Future Work In Kano. Bauchi and Sokoto States
1.    Based on available data from past adaptive research undertaken by Kano, Bauchi and
Sokoto and discussions with ADP staff and research scientists at national research institutes,
key findings which have assisted development of new extension messages were identified. At
the same time to focus resources or priority areas, recommendations for future work were
developed. These are briefly summarized below with more details included in Working Paper
2, Part II.
A.    An Overview of the Agr&Ecological Settina
2.    Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto fall under the Nigerian sahel, sudan and Northern Guinea
Savanna zones. The rainfall characteristics determine the dominant crops and related
agricultural activities. The key features of the major agro-ecological zones are briefly
summarized below:
(a) Sahel (Semi-&id). This zone occupies the north-et corner of the country
with about 500 mm of rainfall. The vegetation is sparse annual grassland,
woodland or shrubland, heavily grazed or browsed. With no more than 90
growing days in a good year, rainfed cropping is dominated by quick growing
millet mixed with cowpeas. A greater range of crops, vegetables, wheat are
grown on the low lying (fadama) alluvial soils with dry season irrigation.
Other major economic activities include: pastoralism with nomadic fulani
herds grazing the area from July to September. This zone represents a fragile
environment with low potential ; it is drought prone with poor soils. Future
development should seek to: arrest degradation through agro-forestry and
vegetative systems for soil moisture conservation; greater use of fadama land;
and low input technology for improving crop productivity mainly based on
traditional farming systems.
(b)    Sudan Savanna. This zone, formerly wooded plain, extends across Northern
Nigeria with sandy soils of low fertility in east and somewhat more fertile
formations in the center-west. Although annual rainfall ranges between 500 to
1000 mm, droughts are common. This zone includes some of the more
densely populated parts of the country which has a significant affect on land
use leading to reduced fallow periods and continuous cultivation in some
areas. Traditional farming system is a complex of agro-forestry, crops and
livestock. Mixed cropping systems predominate, built around main staples
sorghum and millet. Other crops grown in mixture include cowpeas,



-55-
Angex U
Page 2 of 12
groundnut and cotton. Some maize is now being grown in the southern parts
of the zone. Dry season cropping with small scale irrigation is common with
rice, wheat and vegetables. The zone being tsetse free provides wet season
grazing for many transhumant fulani herds of cattle, The rate of grazing
renewal, however, is limited. A lot of the nutrient reserves especially of N
and P, are being exhausted through more intensive cropping. The zone
suffers from lack of improved varieties suitable for major cereal crops, millet
and sorghum and mixed cropping improved agronomic practices suitable for
small farmers, fodder and fuelwood shortage and declining soil fertility.
Sustainable improved integrated farming systems incorporating agro-forestry
with nitrogen fixing leguminous shrubs, crops and livestock could provide
fodder, fuelwood, and arrest degradation with improved soil fertility.
Intensification and further extension of fadama areas offers major growth
opportunity.
(c)    Northern Guinea Savann. Rainfall in this zone ranges from 1000-1250 mm.
The soils of zone are of medium fertility intercepted by low fertility sandier
soils in some parts. The southern parts of this zone represent a transition
from the northern cereal-based systems to those incorporating some root
crops. The main crops are sorghum, maize, rainfed rice and some yam and
cassava. Cotton and groundnut are common and important components of the
mixed cropping systems. Fulani herds of cattle, sheep and goats migrate
southwards into the zone at the start of the dry season utilizing crop residues.
Like the other zones, development of integrated livestock and crop
management systems offers potential for future growth.
KeU Findings from Past Adaptive Research Suitable fQr Inclusion in Extension Messages
A.    Bauchi
(a)    Maize
(i)    Maize varieties I7.B and TZESR-W (short season) producer higher
yields. Hybrid maize produced similar yields to open pollinated TZB
under same management practices.
(ii)    Maize grown at 48,000 plants/ha with either one plant/stand at 23 cm
spacing or two plants/stands at 46 cm spacing was the best practice.
(iii)   Maize requires 90-120 kg N/ha, 45-60 kg P20/ha.
(iv)   Fertilizer to maize in the form of NPK fertilizer was a common
practice; series of studies indicated that Urea X DAP as compared to
NPK compound fertilizer also produced similar results and saved cost
of fertilizer. This provided an alternative to NPK.
(v)   In case farmers have not been able to apply fertilizer early, its
application as late as 30 days after sowing also gives good response.



-56-
Annex 11
Page 3 of 12
(vi)   Maize responded equally to placement and broadcast method of
fertilizers application.
(b)    Mille
(i)    Varieties Ex-Borno, Nig. Composite, Dwarf composite, Bristle
composite gave good performance.
(c)    Sorgbum
(i)    With adequate moisture supply improved varieties KSV8, KSVM
AND SK5912 give good yield in mono-cropping trials. BES variety
gave higher (almost double) response to fertilizer than local varieties.
(ii)   Local selection giving good yield included Jajara, Gajara and Gadu.
(d)    Grosndnut
(i)    Varieties Ex-Dakar and RMP-12 are the best. Other good varieties
are RMP 91 and RRB.
(e)    Cotton
(i)   July month is the best time for sowing cotton.
(ii)   Cotton gave best yields at 25,000 plants/ha.
(iii)   Spraying cotton with cymbush greatly increased the yield.
(iv)   Cotton requires potassium application at 60/80 kg K20/ha.
(f)    Sunflower
(i)    The crop should be sown (except north zone) soon after
commencement of rains.
(g)    Soybean
(i)    Varieties Samsoy 1 and Samsoy 2 are the best varieties.
(h)    Maize/Cotton
(i)    Maize with full stand and cotton undersown in the same ridge was
better than alternate row pattern.
(ii)   Fertilizer at 120:60:60 of NPK is required for this mixture.
(i)    Maize/Sorghum



-57-
A.m=A
Page 4 of 12
(i)    Application of fertilizer rate for this 1:1 row intercrop can be halved
when directed to maize rows instead to the whole plot.
B.    Kano
(a)    Sorghum
(i)    Among local selections, Yarwasha gives good performance in drier
parts of the state. Other selections found suitable in the same areas
due to early maturity were Gaya Early, Yargadama, Lafta Danbatta,
Kadawa farafara Yar gamel, Yarwuri and Bagoba red. The improved
varieties suitable for areas where moisture availability is better are
KSV12, BES KSV8. Niger improved, Bagoba rod and EImota were
best of the Niamey material.
(ii)   Yield levels under NPK at 60-30-30, 30-15-15, and 0-0 were 1964,
1571 and 1072 kg/ha. However, soil in Kano trials were such that no
significant yield differences were observed between 60:30:30 and
30:15:15 NPK rates of fertilizer.
(iii)   Sorghum should be sown at 1 m row spacing closer spacing of 50 cm
gave no advantage.
(iv)   Productivity of sorghum can be increased by addition of FYM
followed by top dressing of 30:15: 15 NPK.
(b)    MilUe
(i)    Varieties Ex-Borno and Nig. composite perform well especially in the
northern parts of the state. In areas of head worm attach Gwagwa
local should be preferred.
(ii)   Millet fertli zer responses were similar to that of sorghum.
(iii)   Millet should be sown at row spacing of 1.0 m. Closer row spacing
of 50 cm has no advantage over 1 m.
(iv)   Fertilizer application before first weeding is simple and safe under
favorable soil moisture conditions. However, application by
placement also gave good yields.
(v)    Productivity of millet can be increased by addition of FYM followed
by top dressing with fertilizer.
(e)      u



-58-
Annex 11
Page 5 of 12
(i)    TZESR-W and TZESR-Y are suitable varieties for maize growing
areas of the state. Hybrid maize does better in high rainfall areas on
heavy soils with higher fertility levels.
(ii)   Growing of maize at two plants/hill at about 50 cm has similar yield
to that of one plant/hill spaced 25 cm giving a population of about
48,000 plants/ha; wide spacing has advantage in view of convenience
in planting and top dressing of fertilizer.
(iii)   Fertilizer requirement for open pollinated maize (TZESR-W) is 90-30
and that of hybrid maize is 120:60 N and P respectively. Soils are
not deficient in K.
(iv)   For catching green ear market TZESR-W variety should be sown in
early May.
(d)    Cowpeas
(i)    Varieties found suitable are TVX X 3236, ITA 60, Den Ilan, IT8ID-
985 and Sampea 7. Varieties showing striga resistance were Survita-2
and KVX30-322.
(ii)   Best time of sowing cowpeas is first fortnight of July and yield
continues to decline after mid July.
(iii)   Cowpeas requires three sprays of insecticide (cypermethrin) for higher
yields.
(e)    Groundnut
(i)    The groundnut varieties found suitable in the state are RMP-12, RRB
and Ex-Dakar. RMP-12 should be preferred for long season and RRB
for short season. RMP-12 showed some resistance to Rosette.
(ii)   Diammonium phosphate can also be safely used as a source of P.
(t)    Rice
(i)    Shallow swamp varieties give much more yield (almost double) than
upland varieties.
(ii)    Varieties found suitable were ITA305, 1TA257 and Ex-China for
upland and ITA212. SIPI 692033 and ITA312 for lowland. ITA312
and ITA308 gave good performance among medium duration varieties.
Faroy 306-6-2 and SIPI 692033 were better among short duration
ones



-59-.
Annex-11
Page 6 of 12
(iii)   Transplanting due to better weed control is better than direct sowing
under lowland conditions.
(iv)   Shallow swamp varieties with supplementary irrigation and application
of NPK fertilizer at 120:30:30 gives yields ranging from four to six
t/ha.
Dry Season Crops (Irrigated)
(g)    Garden Peas
(i)    Garden peas should be sown in November, December sowing in
December causes sharp decline in yields of green pods.
(ii)   Crops need to be staked only if the crop growth is vigorous and
grown on heavy soil/high fertility conditions.
(h)    Wheat
(i)    Varieties found suitable were Pavon 76, Siett cerros and Sonalika.
(ii)   Crop should be sown in November, earlier or later sowing give lower
yields.
(i)    Onion
(i)    Varieties Samaru Composite and Maiduguri improved should be
grown for higher bulb and seed yield.
(j)    Tomato
(i)    Variety Tl-531 performed best in heat tolerant variety trial.
Crop Mixtures
(k)    Millet/Sorghum
(i)    Any of the millet varieties among Ex-Borno and Dwarf composite can
be grown in the mixture.
(ii)   Out of sorghum varieties, yarwasha should be preferred in more drier
parts and KSV12 in higher rainfall areas.
(iii)   Millet/sorghum grown in 1:2 row pattern required NPK fertilizer at
oO:30:30 (K, although not deficient was applied a part of compound
fertilizer composition).
(iv)   The mixture can be grown at I m row spacing as closer row spacing
of 0.5 m has no advantage.



-60-
Anne:li
Page 7 of 12
(I)    Sorghum/Groundnut
(i)    Sorghum/groundnut in any of the row pattern 1:2, 1:3 and 2:4, could
be used till more work is done on this aspect. However, further work
is required to refine the recommendation.
(ii)   Variety RRB of groundnut was successful as mixture.
(m)   Millet/Maize
(i)    Millet varieties Ex-Borno and Dwarf Composite performed alike in the
mixture in one row millet and two row maize pattern. Similarly,
maize yields were also similar when grown with these millet varieties
maize variety TZESR-W (short duration) out yielded TZB in the
mixture.
(n)    Maize/Groundnut
(i)    Maize/groundnut grown in 2:4 row pattern showed that maize variety
TZESR-W (90 days duration) produced good yields. Groundnut
variety RRB performed better than RLB.
(o)    Sorghum/Cow eas
(i)    Yarwasha variety of sorghum perform better than KSV12. Similarly
cowpea yields higher when grown with Yarwasha than KSV12.
(ii)   One row of sorghum with two rows of cowpeas is a better planting
pattern for this mixture.
(p)    Strip Cropping
(i)    Crops such as millet, sorghum, cowpeas and sesame grown in four
row (75 cm spaced) strip produced good results. Outer rows of each
crop produced more yield than inner rows.
(q)    Management of Exhausted Land
(i)    Yearly application of FYM along with the fertilizer restorates the
productivity of exhausted land better than fertilizer alone.
(r)    Livestock. From the trial conducted by KNARDA, following messages
emerged:
})    Feeding animals with Urea treated crop residues (Cruprocess) gready
improves the crude protein of the forage from 2.1 to 9.2% and
digestibility percent from 46.9 to 57.5% resulting in increased body



-61-
Annex II
Page 8 of 12
weight compared to feeding of untreated sorghum residue which
caused reduction in body weight during dry season.
(ii)   Feeding of legume hay of lab lab during dry season is very beneficial
for maintenance of animal.
(iii)   Growing of white accession of lab lab, under irrigated conditions or
residual moisture is successful. There is no need of seeding it every
year as the falling seeds germinate and make good growth. It is a
dual purpose crop, the seeds being used as food by human beings.
(iv)   Fodder Banks of lab lab can be established by fencing the area with
cereal stalks.
(v)    Lab lab should be grown as sole crop as growing it in mixture with
sorghum/millet has not succeeded.
C.    Sokoto
Sole Crops
(a)    Mill
(i)    Ex-Borno continues to be best variety in the state performing
better/equal than the other local and improved varieties.
(ii)   Local varieties Yar Duwigi gave good performance, followed by
Yargadamna in eastern zone.
(b)    Sorghum
(i)    Varieties LS1499, LS187, BES, S35, local farafara and Early Gaya
give good performance.
(ii)   Out of local varieties Yarduwigi followed by Yargadama gave good
performance for early sowing (June-early July). Lafla Danbatta
variety should be preferred for late sowing (ate July) as its yields
were stable and did not fall with delay in sowing.
(iii)   The optimum time for sowing sorghum is end June/early July. Yields
of sorghum declined to 1/3 when sowing was delayed from 30/6 to
27/7.
(iv)   Application of N30 P15 K15 and N60 P30 K30 gave 36% and 63%
increase in grain yelled over no fertilizer (based on means of 115
trial). Any rate between these can be selected by farmer depending
upon availability of resources etc.



-62-
Annex 11
Page 9 of 12
(c)    Groundnut
(i)    Varieties Ex-Dakar, S61 and *rmpl2 gave best results and were better
yielders than local.
(d)    Maize
(i)    Application of N50 P25 K25 and N100 P50 K50 (based on means of
35 sites) gave 42 and 79% more yield than no fertilizer. Depending
upon resources the farmers can select the dose in between these two.
(e)    Rice
(i)    Faro 27 and SIPI performed better among short duration varieties
under irrigated conditions.
(ii)   Rice crop can be successfully grown as a dry season crop by sowing
during the first week of January and transplanting in last week of
February. The crop matures by the end of April. However, water
needs are very high and crop has to compete with lower water
requiring crops, e.g. wheat, during dry season.
(f)    Wheat
(i)    Siete cerros and Pavon 76 continued to perform well.
(ii)   Whole month of November is the best sowing period for wheat delay
in sowing beyord November causes a sharp decline in wheat yields.
(iii)   Fertilizer at N60 P30 K30 and N120 P60 K60 gave 44% and 75%
increase in yield over no fertilizer. The crop requirement, thus, is
N120P60K60.
(iv)   Drilling method is better than broadcast and dabbling.
C.    Priorities for Future Work
3.    The OFAR program would cover the following major areas:
(a)    Crop and Cropping System
Sole Cropping
(i)    Variety Trials. Primary responsibility for the development of new
varieties lies with the national research system. OFAR teams would
assist research institutes in implementing the variety evaluation trials.
The crops would include:



-63-
Annex 11
Page 10 of 12
Cereals - Millet, maize, sorghum, rice, wheat
Leg1mes - Cowpea, groundnut, soybean
Other Crops - Cotton
Comparative evaluation of local vs. improved varieties would be
undertaken.
(ii)    CulturalIPrac . Limited number of trials testing selected crops and
varieties would include:
Date of sowing;
-     Plant population/spacing studies;
-     Method of planting.
(iii)   Fertilizer Trials. Response of Cereals (Maize) to Rates, Sources and
formulating of NPK. Mostly, farmers are using NPK (15:15:15)
which is low in N and contains uawanted K which is not deficient.
New formulations containing high N and very low K would be tested
at different rates in major agro-ecological zones. This work would be
largely confined to major fertilizer responsive cereals.
CrowDinL Syvst
4.    The important crop mixture requiring attention are millet/cowpea,
millet/sorghum/groundnut, millet/sorghum/cotton, maize/sorghum and maize/rice.
(a)    Varietal Selection for Crop Mixtures. As the performance of a given variety
may vary whether it is being grown as sole crop or in a mixture, trials would
specifically screen new varieties and local selections to identify those suitable
for growing in crop mixtures.
(b)    CroD Geometry and Planting Date Studies in a Crop Mixture. The
requirements of crops in the mixture for optimum growth vary for factors of
growth like nutrient, water, light, temperature etc. The crops also require
different types of plant protection measures. Farmers in most cases are
adopting inter-row mixed cropping rather than intra-row. It will be
worthwhile to compare growing of crop mixtures in the same as well as
different rows.
Farmers at present are sowing component crops either on the same date or
different dates. For example, in millet + cowpeas mixture, the cowpea is
planted 4-5 weeks after millet. It is, therefore, important to work out the
optimum sowing time of the component crops particularly when new,
especially short duration, varieties are introduced in the mixtures.
(c)    Fertilizer Requirements of Crops Mixture. The fertilizer requirements of
crops mixture in terms of sources, rate, time and method of application vary



-64-
Annex II
Page 11 of 12
from the sole crops and is also influenced by the choice of variety. Further,
the type of mixture, viz: cereal legume will also change the fertilizer
requirements of different crop mixtures. Additional work on these topics
would help to provide specific answers for different locations.
(d)    Contribution of Component Technglogies. The farmers sometimes adopt a
component and leave the others for growing crop mixtures. It is important
that the contribution of each component technology is worked out so as to
enable the farmers pick up the most important one to them in terms of input
cost and income. Some trials to generate this type of information will be
planned.
(e)    Maintenance of Soil Productivity. With increase in the intensity of cropping,
there is more exploitation of soil resources. Maintenance of soil productivity
through practices like suitable crop rotations, crop mixtures involving
legumes, green manuring, addition of organic matter, growing of restorative
crops and fallowing will be adopted. On-Farm Trials to generate technologies
on these aspects will be carried out in collaboration with research.
Land Management and Agro-Forestrv
5.    For acceptance of new technology being advocated by the national and international
research organizations in this area, a systematic On-Farm Adaptive Research Program is
required. The main areas requiring OFAR trials are:
(a)    Effect of various vetiver grass planting techniques on contour line
establishment, and efficiency of the contour line information on water and soil
conservation;
(b)    Effect of main alley cropping technology/design using different woody
leguminous species on the soil and moisture conservation for different crops;
(c)    Effect of woody species hedge rows on dry season agricultural production in
fadama lands; and
(d)    Role of woody species in bio-mass production for fuel wood, fodder, green
manure and soil enrichment under mixed economy and traditional farming
systems.
6.    Tkese trials depending upon the facilities available will be selected by each ADP
research units and carried out in collaboration with the FRIN and Bank assisted projects in the
forestry sub-sector and extension staff of agro-forestry/land use/soil conservation.
Animal Traction
7.    On-Farm trials in collaboration with IAR and/or National Center for Agricultural
Mechanization would cover the following aspects in rainfed and irrigated fields:



-65-
Annex II
Page 12 of 12
(a)    Evaluating various improved hand tools like serrated sickles (for harvesting)
and hand hoes;
(b)    Evaluation of manually operated and animal drawn seed drills, inter-row
weeders;
(c)    Studies on traction from shoulders versus hump;
(d)    Evaluation of buliock drawn ridgers cum planters;
(e)    Evaluation of bullock power driver fodder cutters, threshers (particularly
wheat areas where it is a serious problem);
(f)    Working out suitable fodder preservation methods at crop harvest for use of
fodder in dry season; and
*g)    Evaluation of bullock powered water lifting devices.
Irrigation Water Management
8.    Irrigation research will concentrate on evaluation of technology such as methods of
land shaping, size of plots, irrigation schedules for different crops of dry season and
supplemental irrigation needs of wet season crops, simple low cost methods of water
distribution to improve efficiency of irrigation water and development of cropping pattern.
The crop production technology for irrigated crops will be worked out.
Integrated Farming Systems Research LFSR)
9.    Farming systems research will focus on diagnostic surveys to design meaningful FSR
program, developing sustainable production of crops involving mixed and sole cropping,
tillage systems involving animal traction, development of integrated crop, agro-forestry and
livestock production systems suiting various agro-econologies and resource constraints. In
developing work program, lessons learnt from the review of traditional integrated systems
practiced by farmers in the Kano Close Settled Zone would be incorporated.
10.   To complement the FSR activities, a limited number of trials specifically aimed at the
livestock component would also be undertaken in collaboration with NAPRI/NLPD and ILCA
West Africa Program. Before commencing any work, specific needs of farmers would
identified through diagnostic survey on livestock issues. The trials program is expected to
concentrate on: (a) collection of data from crop varietal trials on stover/grain yield ratios to
identify dual purpose varieties; (b) methods of improving nutritive value, palatability and
storability of crop residues as feed (cowpea, millet, sorghum lab-lab etc.); and (c) effect on
different animal management practices on animal health.



-66-
Amex III
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPU8LIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICIJLTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PRWOECT
Key Features of Extension Services
A.       Institutioenl
1.      Federal
Policy and Ffnance                             Federal Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources
Coordination and Implementa-                    Agriculture/Crops:  Federal
tion Support                                   Dept. of Agric./Federal Agri-
cultural Coordinating Unit
(FACU)
Forestry: Federal Department
of Forestry/Federal Forestry
Monitoring, Evaluation and
Coordinating Unit (FORNECU)
Livestock: Federal Dept. for
Livestock/National Livestock
Project Dept. (NLPD)
Fisheries: Federal Department of
Fisheries and Agric. Cooperatives
2.      State
Bauchi        Kano        Sokoto
Policy and Finance                             MANR           MANR       MANR
MLFR
Implementation                                 RDA           RDA         RDA
3.      Organizational (lImlementing Aaencv)
HQ
Chief Executive                               MD              MD           PM
ProJect                                       PM              PM           PM
Extension                                     Head            Heed         Head
Agric.Dept.    Agric.Dept.    Ext.Dept.
Zone
Overall                                       ZN              ZM           ZN
Extension                                     Head          Head         Head
Agric.Serv.   Agric.Serv. Agric.Serv.
4.      Others
Local Govt. Areas                            20               64           30
No. of Farm Families                      521,614          805,000      670,000



-67-
Page Z of Z
B.      Ozerationat
1.  Staffinu of the Extension Services
Bauchi                 Kano                  Sokoto
Current   Proposed   Current   Proposed   Current   Proposed
1. Staff
Dep. Drector                    1           1                      1                       1
Asst. Director                  2           4                      4          3           4
SMS (Zonal)                    20          24         24          24         16          24
BES                            52          55        170         184        65           70
WIA Agents                     16          55        267         184         19          70
VEAs                          336         435       1224        471        509          558
SMS Hq (WIA)                    1           1          -           1                       1
2. fortninhtlv trafifnI
No. of Locations/Hats           8          14         14          14         16           16
Skill Practice Plots                       14                     14
Av. and Skill                              14                     14
Dev. Equipment
3. MIRM
Location                        1           1          1           1         1            1
Coordinating                  IAR         IAR        IAR         IAR       IAR          IAR
Institutions
4. Media Units
Mobile Units                  Yes          No        Yes          no       yes           no
TV Programs                   Yes         yes        Yes        Yes        yes          yes
AV Photographic Slid.e         No         Yes         No        yes         no          yes
Radio Programs                Yes         Yes        Yes        yes        yes          yes
Publication                   Yes         Yes        Yes        yes        yes          yes
5. Methodoloav
-Days of visit to                                                 8
farmers in a fortnight          8           8          8          8          8            8
-Sub-cireles/EAs                8           8          8         80          8            8
-Contact Farmers/EA            80          80         80          16        80           80
-Women CF/EA                               16                                            16
Farmer Group Meetings         Yes         Yes       Yes         Yes        Yes          Yes
-Small -Plot Adoption         Yes         Yes       Yes         Yes        Yes          Yes
Technique
6.      Extension Susoort                   Bauchi           Kano              Sokoto
SPATS (No.)                        21,662           9,794             12,240
Field Days (No.)                    2,776             -                  188
Technology Promoted                - Line planting;
* Increased plant population;
Timely weeding;
- Fertilizer use, timing and
method of applicaton;
- Improved seed; and
- Crop protection techniques.
7.      Technoloay Adoption                 - Increased planting and production of
maize and rice;
- Increased fertilizer usage; and
- Increased availability of seed and
planting of short duration varieties
and local selections of millet tex-Borno)
and sorghum (Yarwasha) in response to
changing rainfall pattern, especially
in northern halves of all three states.



-68-
Annex I
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUMLIC -F NIGERIA
W&MIONAL GgRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPO)T PROJECT
Eliaibilitv Criteria for Allocation of Funds Under the
Aericultural Technoalov Suooort Facility
Category                             Prooosed Criteria
A.    Kanaaement and Finance
(i)   Staffing                Availability of qualified and
experienced 1/ staff in place in
key management positions to
effectively oversee the activities
to be supported by the Fund.
(ii)  Counterpart Funding     Evidence of regular provision of
counterpart funds and commitment
from the state government that
priority would be given to ADP
agricultural operations in future
budgetary allocations.
(iii) Disbursement            At least 75% drawdown from the
existing external loan fund.
(iv)  Procurement             A fully trained procurement officer
in place; evidence of good
procurement record and submission of
procurement schedules along with
sub-project proposal(s).
(v)   Covenants               Up-to-date on all legal covenants,
especially financial audits and
quarterly reports on existing
external loan funds; or any other
outstanding covenant on recently
completed project(s) financed using
external funds.
B.    Adaptive Research
(i)   Staffing                Availability of qualified and
trained technical staff able to
1/    This especially applies to the:  Project Manager; Financial
Controller; Chief Agriculturist and his two deputies responsible
for Adaptive Research and Extension; Chief Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Officer, and Chief Manpower Development and
Training Officer. The qualification, experience and terms of
reference of these key project staff would need to be satisfactory
to the Bank.



-69-
Amex I
Page 2 of 3
implement adaptive research programs
with farming system research focus
covering major disciplines.
(ii)  Linkages with the        Evidence of effective linkages with
Research System          the research system
through (a) regular MTRM meetings
with full complement of resource
persons; and (b) sponsored research
contracts with relevant research
institute (and/or university).
C.    Extension
(i)   Unification              Evidence of satisfactory progress in
implementing and operating unified
extension service covering crops,
livestock, forestry and wherever
appropriate, fisheries activities.
(ii)  VEA to Farm Family       Assurances provided that the
Ratios                   participating agencies would
stabilize VEA to farm family ratios
around 1:1,000 to enhance long-term
sustainability.
(iii) WIA Program              Evidence of progress in implementing
an effective WIA program an integral
part of unified extension service.
D.   Manpower Develooment and Traininc
Availability of a long-term human
resource development plan with
clearly identified annual training
schedules for all major activities.
E.    Environmental Protection
Availability of qualified and
trained staff and an cost effective
and comprehensive soil and water
management strategy to enhance
sustainability of smallholder
agriculture.
F.    Inout Suoolv
(i)   Seed Production and      Phasing out of Government/ADP owned
Marketing                farms for certified seed production
and evidence of full cost recovery
of seed procured and marketed by
ADP.



-70-
Ame9xI
Pago 3 of 3
(ii)  Marketlng of Other       Evidence of progress Ln the
Inputs                   privatizatLon of publicly ouned
Lnput dLtrLbutLon
activitLes.
.



-71-
Annerx V
TabLe 1
Page 1 of 22.
Table 1: Domestic and Imnort Parity Prices
wellsd tiv him                 *Bdera Prica
Rice Paddy                         3,000                     2,969
Maize                              1,400                     2,609
Millet                              1,350                     1,148'
Sorghum                             1,300                    1,105?
Cowpeas                            3,500                     2,975*
Grounduts (Shelled)                3,500                      3,600
Cotton                              3,500                    4,440 A/
Wheat                               3,400                     3,126
Domestic price deflated by the SCF of 0.85
a/ Assuming the ginning ratio to be 1:4
doc.name: tl
(4 June 1991)



-72-
Annex V
TaoLe 2
Page 2 of 2..
Table 2: Increased Financial Benefits and Costs (1990 naira per hectare)
Incremental     Incremental      B:C Ratio
Sole C41
Rice Paddy                     3,000           1,865        1.61
Wbeat                          2,720           1,304        2.09
Maize                            700             453        1.SS
Millet                           405             361        1.12
Sorghum                          520             379        1.37
Cowpea                         2,800           1,844        1.52
Groundnuts                     1,050             757        1.39
Cotton                         1,400             948        1.48
Co Combinadg=
Maize/Cotton                   1,750             924        1.89
Maize/Sorghum                    960             480        2.00
Millet/Cowpeas                   620             577        1.07
Millet/SorghumtCowpeas           745             622        1.20
Millet/Sorghum                   530             413        1.28
Sorghum/r'roundnuts              610             603         1.01
dor..name:t2
(4 Jun 91)



-73-
Annex V
TabLe 3
Page 3 of 22.
TIable 3: Im2Dications of Im2roved Practices for Returns to Labor
Returns per hec+ar    Returns per Unit of Labor
Traditignal  ,.n2Lrv_qd  Traditional   IImroved   Difference
Pactic    Epratice    Practices     Practices
--______ _  _(1990 Naira)-      _    _
Sole Crop$
Rice Paddy               3,002     4,937         29.72       35.01         5.29
Wheat                    2,274     4,130         39.21       51.63        12.42
Maize                    1,225     1,762         31.41       33.25         1.84
Millet                    612        926         19.13       20.58         1.45
Sorghum                   904      1,315         22.60       24.81         2.21
Cowpeas                   968      2,854         30.25       36.59         6.34
Groundnuts               1,088     1,861         18.13       22.15         4.02
Cotton                   1,608     2,020         27.72       33.11         5.39
Crop Combinations
Maize/Cotton             2,119     3,425         39.98       44.48         4.50
Maize/Sorghum            1,203      1,973        24.55       31.32         6.77
MilletlCowpeas           1,201      1,534        26.69       26.00         0.69
Millet/Sorghum/Cowpeas    1,683    2,116         34.35       33.06        -1.29
Millet/Sorghum             788     1,19S         20.21       22.55         2.34
Sorghum/Groundnuts       1,611      1,998        27.78       25.95        -1.83
*Excluding labor costs.
doc.name:t3
(4 June 1991)



-74-
Annex V
Taole 4
Page 4 of 22.
Table 4: Benefit-Cost Ratios in Terms of Returns to Labor
Increml   Incremental | BCRatio
- (Naira per hectare)
Rice Paddy                 3,000       1,065        2.82
Wheat                      2,720         869         3.1S
Maize                       700          163        4.29
Millet                      40S           91        4.45
Sorghum                     520          109        4.77
Cowpeas                    2,800         914         3.06
Groundnuts                 1,050         277         3.79
Cotton                     1,400         888         1.58
CroCobiations
Maize/Cotton               1,750         444        3.94
Maize/Sorghum               960          190        5.05
Millet/Cowpeas              620          287        2.16
Milet/Sorghum/Cowpvdas      745          312        2.39
Millet/Sorghum              530          123        4.31
Sorghum/Groundnuts          610          323        2.74
*A11 input costs, other than labor
doc.name:t4
(4 June 1991)



-75-
Arnnex V
TabLe 5
Page 5 of 21.
Table 5: Farm Level Analysis with Incremental Benefits Evaluated at Financial Prices, and
Incremental Costs Evaluated at Border Prices
Incremental Benefits  Incremental Costs |
(Financial Price     (Economic Price  |  :Rai
(Naira per hectare)  -
Sole Crops                             
Rice Paddy                        3,000              2,050         1.46
Wheat                             2,720              1,574         1.73
Maize                               700                734         0.95
Millet                              405                540         0.75
Sorghum                             520                555         0.94
Cowpeas                           2,800              2,032         1.38
Groundnuts                         1,050             1,057         0.99
Cotton                             1,400             1,190         1.18
CEO Combinations
Maize/Cotton                       1,750             1,483         1.18
Maize/ZSorghum                      960                757         1.27
Miletl/Cowpeas                      620                723         0.86
!MJlet/Sorghum/Cowpeas              745                820         0.91
Millet/Sorghum                      530                583         0.91
Sorghum/Groundnuts                  610                745         0.82
doc.name:tS
(4 June 1991)



-76-
Arnex V
Tac . e 6
Page 6 of 2L
Table 6: Benefit-Cost Analysis Utilizing Border Prices
Incremental    1   Incremental    B:C Ratio
_ _ _nefits'   CJ                    _
(Naira per hectare)  -
Sole Crops
Rice Paddy                       2,969              2,050        1.45
Wheat                            2,501              1,574        1.59
Maize                             1,305              734         1.78
Millet                             344               540         0.64
Sorghum                            442               555         0.80
Cowpeas                          2,380              2,032        1.17
Groundnuts                        1,080             1,057        1.02
Cotton                            1,776             1,190        1.49
CM Cgmbinations
Maize/Cotton                     2,637              1,483        1.78
Maize/Sorghum                     1,526               757        2.02
Milet/Cowpeas                      528                723        0.73
MiIlet/SorghumlCowpeas             634                820        0.77
Muilet/Sorghum                     451                583        0.77
Sorghum/Groundnuts                 581                745        0.78
*at border prices.
doc.name:t6
(4 June 1991)



-77-
Annex V
Table 7
Page 7 of 2 2.
Table 7: Economic Rate of Return Estimation (million 1992 Naira)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
--------____----------______-_-----------------------------
Net Benefits
______ --------------------------------
Year  Irrigated Rice  Rainfed                Project    Net
and Wheat       Crops    Total    Costs   Returns
______ -------------- --------- ------- --------- -------
1               0           0        0        160    -160
2                9         12       21         71      -50
3              18         -53      -35         54      -89
4              28          29       57         68      -11
5              37          40       77         52       25
6              48          53      101         28       73
7              58          61      119         29       90
8              67       -191    -124           30    -154
9              81          84      165         32      133
10              92          96      188         33      155
11             107         107      214         35      179
12             119         120      239         37      202
13             132        -346    -214          39    -253
14             148         145      293         41      252
15             162         160      322         43      279
16             180         172      352         45      307
17             198         185      383         47      336
18             214        -518    -304          49    -353
19             234         213      447         52      395
20             252         226      478         54      424
----------------------------------------------------------
Net Present Value (million 1992 Naira)                       165.
at an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent:
Economic Rate of Return (percent):                           0.17
Doc.Name: TERR7
(19 Feb 92)



-78-
Annex V
TabLe 8
Page 8 o' 22
Table 8: Incremental Fertilizer Requirements
Associated with the Adoption of Imnroved Practices
&goect Yei                Increased Fertilizer Requirement
('000 m.t.)
1                                  0
2                                 28
3                                 57
4                                 86
5                                 116
6                                 147
7                                 178
8                                210
9                                242
10                                276
11                                310
12                                345
13                                380
14                                416
15                                453
16                                491
17                                530
18                                569
19                                609
20                                651
doc.name:tS
(4 Jun90)



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budgoel: Irrigated Rice (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FINANCIAL PRICES                            BORDER PRICES
.  Tral Mal           lm r ed               Traditlonal           Imwwoved
Quantity    T. Costs    Quanitly   T. Cosgs    Quantity   T. Cos6s   Quanilty  T.Costs
Wate Chargos                       lumpsum       500.00  lumpsum        500.00
Trtor Hie (nd prep.)               lumpsum       600.00  lumpsum        600.00
Nurse (md)                            3           60.00      4          80.00
Land Preparation (md)                 2           40.00      2          40.00
TranplanIn (md)                       20         400.00     29         580.00
Ikdgmon(md)                           10         200.00     15         300.00
W"ding (md)                           30         600.00     30          600.00
FtSZm Application (md)                1           20.00      2          40.00
Sprayig (md)                          -          -           4          80.00
Bird Scalng (md)                      10         200.00     10         200.00
HarvelngWTreehlno (md                 25         500.00     45         900.00
Cost odap                             15          82.50     25          137.50
Transport                                         75.00                 125.00
Total                           __ ._         3277.50               4182.50               2785.88           3555.13
Seeds (kgs)                           40         160.00     70         560.00                 136.00            476.00
Fertilize (kgs)                   100kg ureal           100kg ureaJ
100kg NPK      80.00  300kg NPK      160.00                533.33           1066.67
HerbiClde (ltre)                      _-                     I          80.00                                    68.00
Iscticide (itre)                      _          -          2          400.00 _        _     _                  340.00
Total                                         240.00               1200.00                669.33           195067
Total Cos                                     3517.50               5382.50               3455.21           5505.80            0  _ D
YIId (kg)                                       1500                  2500                                                       10    <
0
.  ~   ~ ~~ ______                       o_____                                                 ____-
md - mandays
tIhe linancial prices of all Inputs, except lertillzer, are deflated by a factor of 0.85 to arrive at Oborder prices.
doc.name:lrrrice
(5 Jun 91)



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERUA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budgel: Idrrgated Wheat (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FlNAN          S                             BORDER PRICES
Trad1 l                Im ed                 Tradillnal           Improved
oumnilty    T. Cosls    Qu          Cosis    Quantity  cT.Costs   Quantity  T.Costs
Oostatln__
Water Chargs                        waum          500.00  lumpwum       500.00
Trsacolr fHI,and prep.)             imnpu         600.00  lumpsum       600.00
Land Prepatauon (md)                   6          120.00     8          160.00
PXlann 0(md                            S          160.00     10         200.00
Iblo(                                 15          300.00     20         400.C9
Wedng(ed                               a          160.00     10         200.00
FIrI  Applclbn (md)                    1           20.00     2           40.00
HuveinofMdhing (md)                   20          400.00     30         600.00
Cod dta                               12           68.00     20         110.00                               aX
Tranport                                           60.00           1    100.00
Tdal                                          2386.00                2910.00               202&10             2473.50
Seeds (kgs)                           100         500.00    120        1200.00                 425.00           1020.00
F urp(kas)                            200          80.00    400         160.00                 533.33           1066.67
Toal                                     _    580.00                1360.00                958.33            2086.67
Total Codt                                    2960-                  4270.00               2986.43            4560.17
Yidd (kg)                                        1200                  2500
md - mandap
o fincia pic  of ad inputscpt lele. are defaed by a factor of 0.85 to arrve at 'border prces. &
doc.namirwheat                                                                                                                      C2-<
(5 Jun 91)                                                                                                                          o 
p.,



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budget: Cowpeas (1990 Nalra pet hectare)
FINANCIAL PRICES                             BORDER PRICES'
Tradilionai           Imoeoved               TraditIonal           Improved
Ouantity    T. Costs    Quantity    T. Costs    Quantily    T. Costs   Ouanilly  T.Cosis
Land Cleano (md.)                      2           40.00     2           40.00
PIouqhk*4rr rowIngiRIdgI nlumpsum                 150.00  lumpsum       300.00
Puurng (ed                             2           40.00     6          120.00
Fmfllizt i AppfkatUon (md)             -          -          2           40.00
WeedIng (trd)                         10          200.00     20         400.00
ImiICId AppUcalbn (tnd)                -          -          3           60.00
Harvesting sad Threshing (md)         10          200.00     30         600.00
Bags                                   3           16.50     11          60.50                      .
Tansport                                           15.00                 55.00            1
Todal                                          661.50                1675.50                562.28            1423.75
Seeds (kgs)                           10          50.00      15         105.00                 42.50              89.25
Ferlizw (kps)                          -          -         200          80.00                 -                 533.33
Cymbh ED(Satchels)                     -          -          7          510.00                 _                 433.50
Pwlmor(ED)(bozze)                      -          -          1          170.00                 _                 144.50
Sed Dressng (Satchels)                 -          -          5           15.00                 _ -                12.75
To_a                                            50.00                880.00                  42.50            1213.33
Total CoSst                                    711.50                2555.50                604.78           2637.08
V dd                                           300 kgs                 100< k                                                      Is
ib x
md - mandays
Ihe linanclal prices d all Inpuls, except ltililzer. are deflated by a faclor of 0 35 o arrive at Obofder prices.
doc.name:lable 5
(4 Jun 91)



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Fum Bue Cotton (1990 Nalra per blecare)
FINANCIAL RICES                             BORDER PRICES
.   Tf adWonX         Ittwoved              Tradhional            Imwoved
Ouani__y    T. Costs    Quantry    T. Costs    Ouanity    T. Costs   Ouanilty  T.Costs
Land Clearing (and.)                  2           40.00      2          40.00
Hawing and Ridging (md)            kumpwm        200.00  lumpsum        300.00
Fam Sanilatlon (qd)                   5          100.00      5          100.00
Sowin (a1d)                           6          120.00      8          160.00
Feutliw Appication (tad)              2           40.00      3          60.00
Herbicide Applation (aid)             -          -           1          20.00
Weedlng(md)           .               20         400.00      8          160.00
lnsKcldse Spraying (md)               1           20.00      3           60.00                                                              co
Plchg and Bagn (nd)                  12         240.00     16         320.00                                                                1
Bags                                  6           33.00     10          55.00
Transpon                                          30.00                 50.00            I
ToMal                                         1223.00               1325.00               1039.55            1126.25
Seeds (kos)                          50          175.00     65         260.00                 148.75            221.00
FeatNUi (kgs)                     75 kgs 9SP     -      IO5kgs BSP
85 lgs CAN      64.00 175kgs CAN     130.00                426.67            866.67
Herbicide 0ilrs)                      _-                    5          300.00                 -                 255.00
Inseclklide                         1 spray      190.00   3 sprays     570.00                 161.50            484.50
Seed Dressing (Satchels)              _          -          5           15.00                 -                  12.75
Todal                                          429.00 1             1275.00                736.92            1839.92
Total Costs                                   1652.00               2600.00               1776.47           2966.17
to f I
Yieds                                          600 kgs               1000 kgs                                                           <
0
- 1.
mnd  mandays                                                                                                                       r
t the financial prices ol all Inputs. excepI fetillizer, are deflated by a factor of 0.85 to arrive at border prices.
doc.name:table 7
(4Jun91)



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budget: Maize (1990 Nalua per hectare)
FINANCIAL I                                 BORDER PRICES
Tadlil                 I    e               TradIional            Imoroved
._.__________T._________           Quantity    T. COON    au           costs    Quantity    T. Costs   Quantily  T.Cosis
ODeratkh
and mmbean (md.)                     2           40.00      2          40.00
Pr    _     _ jgI*CbINVdog         lumpum        150.00  lumpsum        200.00
panmd)                                3           60.00      4          80.00
FetIlw zAppication (md)               1           20.00      2          40.00
WedIng (nd                            10         200.00     15          300.00
Huutln  and TlluJng (nd)              1s         300.00     20         400.00
Cook d 0s                             10          55.00     15           82.50
Tr_mnoiaton                                       50.00                  75.00                                                                w
Total                                          075.00               1217.50                743.75            1034.88
Seeds (ks)                            15          30.00     20          80.00                  25.50             68.00
FetIkr (kgs)                         100          40.00     250         100.00                266.67            666.67
Total                                           70.00                1.00 o                292.17            734.67
Total Cota                                     945.00               1397.50               1035.92            1769.55
Vildd                                         1000 kgs               1500 kos
ad. refer. to mdays V
'l Th InancW pes of anl Inputs. acp lilkzer. afe deflaed by a factor of 0.85 lo arrIe at "border" prices.                         d   i 
doc.namtable 12                                                                                                                   0
(5 Jun 91)           .



FEDERAL EPUBLIC OF NIGEfUA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL I ECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budge: Sorhum (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FINANCIAL PRICES                            BORDER PRICES'
Ttadli  Ia Smre ed                          TradiHlonal          Imvroved
.___________________________   Quantty   T. Costs    Ouanit    T. Costs    Quantily    T. Cs  Ouanitly  T.Costs
Land Cleang md.)                      2           40.00     2           40.00
PlouMngin eow imJdgIn             kum            150.00  lumpsum       200.00
PlantIng (md)                         2           40.00     3           60.00
Feetlzw Appilcatln (md)               1           20.00     2           40.00
Woding(md)                            15         300.00     20         400.00
Hareslno and Thresi (md)              12         240.00     16         320.00                                                               1
Cosd of Bags                          8           44.00     12          66.00                                                              o
Transport Ion                                     40.00                 60.00                                  _
Total                                         874.00               1186.00                742.90            1008.10
Seeds (gs)                            a           12.00     10          30.00                 10.20             25.50
Feilzer (lik)                        100          40.00    200          80.00                266.67            533.33
Sd Dressing (Satchels)                -          -          3            9.00                -                   7.65
Total                                          52.00                 119.00               276.87 __5 66.48
Total Cam                                     926.00               1305.00                .019.77          1574.58
YIeld                                         800 kgs               1200 kas
D0 -4 X.
md. reers to mandays
ID x
*The llnancIl piIces of all Inputs, except lefillIez, are deflated by a laclor of 0.85 to arIve at 'borde" prices.                 <_
0
-th
doc.name:lable 9
(4 Jun 91)



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Fam Budge: Mlle (1990 NalFa pw hectare)
FINANCIAL PRICES                            BORDER PRICES
TWadl nal             Imso red              Tradlilona            ImPowe
QuaMny    T. Costs    Quantity   T. Costs    Quantily    T. Costs   Quantity  T.Costs
Land ChlIn (md.)                      2           40.00      2          40.00
PloughlnglRldgng (nid)             kunpsum       150.00  lumpsum       200.00
Planting                              2           40.00      2          40.00
FeItEz  Applaton (md)                 -           -          1          20.00
wdoing (nd.)                          10         200.00     15         300.00
Havestng ad Th_es       (md)          10         200.00     15         300.00
Cost  bags                            5           27.50      a          44.00
Tneot.                                            25.00                 40.00                            _
Total                                          682.50                984.00                580.13            1B36.40
Seeds (kgs)                           7           10.50     7           21.00                  &93               17.85
Fuilllzw (kos)                        -          -          100         40.00                 _                 266.67
seed Dressng (Satches)                --                    3            9.00 _________  ___7.65
Total                          ________        10.50      3           70.00                  8.93    _       292.17
TOaal Costs                                    693.00               1054.00                589.06           1128.57
Yeld (g)                                        500                    800 
md - mandays     .                                                                                                               *
*the fInanca pices of al Inputs, except ftNlzw. are deoatod by a laclor ol 0.85 to arrIvo at border prices.                      D * D
x
Note: Geeally, larmers do not grow millet In sole stands.                                                                        Ua c
This budget has been tormulated lo lacilitate the economic analysis.0
doc.nams:tmlNe
(5 Jun 91)



APPENDIX A
Poge 4 Of 4
SECTOR                     ISSUES                                    RECOUGENDATIOSS                        ENTITY RESPONSIBLE
Health and Mn9agemnt               i. Undertaking thorough reviow of objectives of         MINSAP
Inforpition System  a/                MINSAP's current mdcalt statisticol systm
with senior MINSAP staff.  Ephasize on adequacy
of present data collection system nd
qy ty *nW    lfty of *existing data, and
dwlopwntot  the hotlth indicators.
2. Doeigning and adopting a eawprohens1w health                     U
and management information system (HISMIS)
for entire health sector.
3. Doeeloping guidelines for medlcal data collection. 
4. Developing a supervisory visit protocol and
mnoua enabdlng each operating department
to he" a systoemtic heock list that could be
completed for each site visit.
5. Requiring that each operating department draft
detailed one-year operational nd  ction plns
to delineate all operating groups and
responsibilities, Implementation schedule
by month nd week of tasks and activities.
6. Using health data and information from regional
directors and adinistrators as a topic for
future MINSAP in-service training.
7. Considering the use of a personal computer (PC)
system for MINSAP data processing activities.
......... .............................................
Gender Issues in the Health        1. Giving high priority to women as a central           MINSAP, NGOs, Donors
Sector                                focus in heatth projects and programs. Integrating
health program with other social nd economic
prograso oriented to inproving the quality of
women's lives.
2. Developing o series  of "coiimfication education
programs" and incorporating heatth and nutrition
education for mothers, with family planning
options to impact on maternal mortality,
morbidity and fertility.
3. Promoting intensive periodic pre-natal care
nd effective birth assistance. Breastfeeding
attention should also be part of nutrition
progrm.
4. Placing health sectorls entire network at the
service of education promotion for women nd
yirls.
.... ................................. ............................................... ... ... .
Child Health                       1. Recomendation  regarding chfid health are part    MINSAP, HGOs, Donors
of those listed under various issues related
to social sectors.
2. Investigating possibility of prooting home day
care centers in urban are s.
3. training MC workers to regard chfildren as
a priority population group, ensuring
that they receive attention of various programs
.................
s/  Detaited recowndestionr for Hospitals and Health  nd Management Informtion System  (HIS/MIS)
are found in Voluse 11; Annexes of the report.
a:gub*.k1 (Ja28)



EDUCATION -- SULN RY OF RECOCWENDATIONS                                          APPENDIX P
age I of 2
SECTOR                   ISSUES                                   RECOSAENDATIONS                       ENTITY RESPONSIBLE
Primary Education                 1. Uperading toaching quality.                         KOE, ASOI
Educattion ad
Training                                        2. Producing instructionat (ateriets for students
and teahers.
3. lprovine the quality of education by providing
In-service teacior traininr.
4. loproving efficiency In teahfng by upgreding      ICALP and SIMAPSE
the teachersr conmnd of the Portuguese
language and their skill in teaching It as
a foreign language.
S. Producing and distributing on lorge scale
instructional mnterials written In Portuguese
and training toeahors in appopriate uao
of materitls.
6. Involving the Normul School staff in designing,    Normal School staff
producing nd revising the instructional
materiels.
7. Improving method for the dirtribution of           Possibly using teachers to
textbooks and other instructional materials,       distribute
S. Continuing curriculum reform by faplementing       MSE INDE
the school progr   in three stages (adjustment,
readjustment, and reformulation).
9. Strengthening the Inspectorote Service.            MOE
10. School rehabilitation.                             MOE, Donors
.. . . .. ..................... ...... ................
Secondary Education               1. Upgrading teacher skills. 
2. Improving distribution of textbooks and producing
support mterils
3. Consolidating the Normal School's two campuses
into one to generate savings.
4. Rorienting teacher training progras towards        Gulbenkian Fowidation and
curriculue subject matters.                        NE
5. Strengthening the Inspectorate Service.            MOE
6. laporting textbooks related to basic sciene
u d basic social science; ond domestic production
of instructional materials focusing on
teachers guides, student manuals nd varied
sets of exercises covering all attubcts of the
curricutul.
t. Using teachers' time more effectively by involving
them in the production of instructional
mterials for secondary students and teachers.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budget: SovghumIGroundnuts (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FINANCIAL PRICES                            BORDER PRICES'
TIadkl EinI            Im raoed             Tradillonal           Improved
Quanty    T. Costs    Quanty    T. Coass    Quanilty    T. Costs   Quantity  T.Costs
Land Cleng (md.)                      2           40.00      2          40.00
Ploughlnglflidglng (md)            lumpswm       200.00  lumpsum        300.00
Planing (md)                          10         200.00     12         240.00
Feetlzw Appikcation (md)              1           20.00      2           40.00
nsticide Appikalon (md)               -           -          1           20.00
Weding (md.)                          15         300.00     20          400.00
Haresi. Shelling, Threshing (md)      20         400.00     25         500.00
Bags                                  a           44.00     11          60.50
Transport                                         40.00                 55.00                       _
Totld                                         1244.00               1655.50               1057.40            1407.18
Seeds Sorghumkiroundnuts         3lcgWkgs         14.50 4kgsl25kgs     112.00                  12.33             95.20
Folizr (SSP)                        100 kls       40.00   200 kgs       80.00                 266.67            533.33
lnsecilde(bOItle)                     1          170.00      1         170.00                 144.50            144.50
SeOd Dressngo(Satchets)               -          -          18          54.00 _                                  45.90
Toial                                 _       224.50   .             416.00                423.50            818.93
Total Cost                                    1468.50               2071.50               1480.90           2226.11           .0 -_ >
Yids                                                                                                                               
Sorghum(kgs)                               400                    600.00           I
Groundnut (kts)                            400                    500.00                             .                      o
md - mandays
*ihe Inncial prkcs of al Inpus. exccp letllizer. are deflated by a faclor of 0.85 to arre at border prices.
m.a_ UW"  14
(5 Jun 91)



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
* -                               NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budget: MalzeSorghum (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FINANCIAL PRICES                            BORDER PRICES'
Traditonal             ImProved             Traditonal            Improved
Quantlty    T. Costs    Ouantity    T. Cosis    Quantity   T. Costs   Ouanilly    .Costs
Omefalons
Land Cleadino (md.)                   2           40.00      2          40.00
PlougMngRgdlng (od)                lumpsum       150.00 I Iumpsum      200.00
Planting (md)                         3           60.00      4          80.00
Fetilizer Application (md)            1           20.00      2          40.00
Weeding (md)                          15         300.00     20         400.00
Harvesting and Threshing (md)         20         400.00     25         500.00
Cost of Bags                          10          55.00     17          93.50
Transot                                           50.00                 85.00                                                             o
Total                                         1075.00               1438.50                913.75           1222.73
Seds MaizelSorghum (ks)              813          22.00    1214         60.00                 18.70             51.00
FerilIer (kl)                        100          40.00    250         ;on.oo                266.67            666.67
Sed Dressing (Satchels)                      _      _6                  18.00   .                               15.30
Total                                          62.00                 178.00                285.37            732.97
Total Costs                                  1137.00                1646.50               1199.12           1955.70
Yields
Malze(kgs)                                       700                  1200
Sorghum (ksj                                     300                   500  ..__                  __,__D ___
so- 
0
md - mandays
the fInancial price of all Inputs, except lftilIzer, are deflated by a faclor of 0.85 to arfve at Oborder' prices
doc.name:lable 19
(4 Jun 91)



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOI OGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budge: MUIUSotrhumlCowa (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FINANCAL PBOICES                            BORDER PRICES
TtIll                Imia d                Traditi nal          lmproved
.___.___Q____h_    T. CoOS    u        T. Caos    Ouantlty   T. Costs   Ouantily  t.Costs
Land C.lng (md.)                      2          40.00      2          40.00
PlouUnoRlMg                        hapsm         150.00  lumpeum      200.00
Planting (md)                         a          160.00     10         200.00
Fetzer Appilcain (md)                 1          20.00      2          40.00
Wedng (Ond.)                         10          200.00     15        300.00
Harvesing and ThrhinO (MO            20         400.00     25         500.00
Cost of bags                         l1          60.50     15          82.50
Transpot.                         _55.00                               75.00                               _
Total                                        1085.50               1437.50                922.68           1221.88
Seed (kgs)                           16          46.00     16          81.00     16          39.10    16       68.85
Fertilze (ks)                        125         50.00    400         100.00     125        333.33   250      666.67
sckIcde  Ie)                          _          -          1         170.00      -          -         t       1450
Sed Drssno (Satchels)                   _        -          5          15.00      -.-                  s        2.75
Total                                          96.00                366.00.               372.43            892.77
TOtal Costs                                  1161.50               1803.50               1295.11           2114.65
Yields                                                                                                           -. o1
Millet (kgs)                               500                   600                                                      (D x
Sorghum (kgs)                              400                   600                                                     o i 
Cowpea (kgs)                               200                   300                                                     C
md - mandays
tha financial prices of al Inputs. Oxcepl leilzwer, are deflated by a factor of 0.85 to arrive at border prices.
doc.name:tabl 21
(5 Jun 91)



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budget: MalzalCotton (1990 Nalra per hectaro)
FINANCIAL PRICES                            BORDER PRICES
TradliloNW                r                 Traditional           Improved
Quanilty    T. Costs    OuanlUt    T. Casts    Quantity   T. Cosis   Ouantlty  T.Costs
Oooralkns
Land Cearng (ad.)                     2           40.00      2          40.00
Ploutnlldln                       lumpsum        200.00  kimpsum       300.00
Planing (md)                          4           80.00      6          80.00
Fslilizer Applikat  (md)              2           40.00     3           60.00
WeedIng ((Md                          15         300.00     20         400.00
Huaieding Ed ThreshIng (md)         2013         400.00     30         600.00
Sprayi  (md)                         -4          -           1          20.00
Blag                                 119          60.50     19         104.50
Transport                                         55.00                 95.00
Total                                         1175.50               1699.50                999.18           1444.58
Selds Matz/Colton (kgs)             10/15         65.50    500         140.00                 55.68             119.00
Fe,tNIzw(kgs)                        200          80.00     5          200.00                533.33            1333.33
insctkide (1 pay)                     -          -                     190.00                 _                 161.50
Seed DressIng (Satchels)                _                               15.00                  _                12.75
Total                                         145.50                545.00                 589.01           1626.58
Total Costs                                  1321.00               2244.50                1588.19           3071.16              >  
YIelds                                                                                             
Maize (kgs)                                  700                   1200
Colton (kos)                                 400                   700                 o__
md - mandays
the llnanclal prices ol all Inputs, except lertilizer. are dellated by a lactor of 0.85 to arrive at border prices.
doc.name:lable 18
05-Jun-91



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Budget: MIUllCowpea (1990 Nalra per hectare)
FINANCIAL iPRICES                            BORDER PRICES
Tv  I                  I  r                  Trad lIn              Impoved
QuantIta T. Costs    Quantity T.                          Costs   Ouantlly  T.Costs
Land Claviw (md.)                      2           40.00     2           40.00
PlougNnoJRldgtg(ed                 lumpaum        150.00  lumpsum       200.00
P bant  g                              4           80.00     5           100.00
Feitl- Appiklan (md)                   1           20.00     2           40.00
Weeding (md.)                         15          300.00     20         400.00
Harivsng and Thresng (xq              15          300.00     20         400.00
Cost of ba                             7           38.50     10          55.00
Transp                                             35.00                 50.00             _
Total                                          963.50                1285.00                81898             1092.25
ds. UCo (kgs)                        7/10          60.50    7110         91.00                  51.43             77.35
FeetUlIw (ks                          100          40.00    200          80.00                 266.67            533.33
InectIcide (otile)                     -          -          1          170.00                                   144.50
Sed Dressing (Satchls)                 _          -          5           15.00 _                                  12.75
Total                                          100.50                 356.00                318.10             767.93
Total Costs                                   1064.00                1641.00               1137.08            1060.18
Yields                                                                                                                         UQ O- :
Millelt kgs)                                500.00                 700.00
Cowpaso (kgs)                               200.00                 300.00                                                   M)
md - mandays
"the financial prices of all Inputs, except lertIlIzer, afe deflated by a factor of 0.85 to arrive at "border' prices.
doc.namo:lable 20
(5 Jun 91)



NIGERIA
NATiO01L ACRCULTURAl TECHNLO0Y SUP,iT rs:ctr
Projecl Conwments by Year
ToIals Including Conliniescies                            Tolals Includir.s Conlinsencies
(JIAIFA '000)                                               (US$' 000
l         2         3         4          5      Total        I         2        3       4         5     ToLal
A, KWNOe PAUCHI, AND SOliOTO - TECIIICAL SULPORT
1. ADAITPI9E RESEARC1                                                27,385.7  18,909.6   9W607.4  14,752.9  l1,4B4.7  02,419.1   2.559.4  1,689.3   814.2  1,100.2   S97.3  7,139.4
2. AGRICULTURE EXTENSION                                             088766.1  50,712.4  45,321.6  72,638.3  56,407.0 313,B45.4   0,295.9  4,527.9 3t840.8  54.0.1 4,271.3 26,748.9
3. AOIIII  TRACTION                                                  40,U45,    3,264.0   34013,6  31452,5   4.015.5  54,301.2   3.79B.7    291.4   255.4   276.2   304.2  4.925.9
4. AGROFOESTRY AHD SOIl AND VATER IIANGENT                           17,393.4   8,356.4  9.248.0  IG.223.5  11,270.2  56.491.5   1,625.6    746.1   783.7    817.9   953.0  4.827.11,
Sub-ToL! IANO, K  AUCANI AND SOKOTO - lECMNICAL SUPF0RT                 1714190.0  01,241.4  67,190.6 101.067.1  83.537.4 507#221,3  16s279,5  7,253.7 5#694.1  8085.4 6,1328.6 431641.3
8. rD  DAUCIIIs AMID SOKOTO - PROJECT IAIIEENT SUPPORT
1 AMINISISTRAIWI AND FINANCE                                        120332A4   9,746.4   7,320.6  4,232.0   4.151.0  37#7?1.2   1.152,6    870.2  621.1    330.6   314.5  3,296.9
2. ILhIIIGH  IIOIIITORIHC AND EVAUATION                               13,522.5   5o204.4   5,234.0   6,948.8   6s282.3  370272.0   1s263.8    471.8  4W.6   555.9   475.9  3,211.0
3, lIIAIFER i ['EVELOPIIENT AlD TRAINING                              6.049.1   10762.8  lo960*4   2,146.3   1320.4  13,267.1         565.3   159.2  166.1    171.;  100.6  1.163.0
Sub-ToLal KAlNOt IAUCHI, hHID SOKOTO - fROJECT IUIALGEIIENT SUflORT     31,904.1  16,813.7  14,522.9  13.327,9  11,761.7  00,330.3   24981.7  1,501.2 1,230.8  11066.2  891.0  7,670.9
C, TECHNOLOGY  SUPPORT  FACILITY                                         5W887.0  16,152.6  27,133.1  28,165.9  29P190.6 1066537.1       550.2  1#442.2 2,2'9.4  2,253.3 2,212.0  8.757.1
ital PROJECT COSTS                                                      211,981.9 114s207.6 108,046,6 142,560.9 124,497.7 702,094.7  19,811,4 10o197.1 9,224.3 11.404.? 9,431.6 60,069.3
=======:== ======Z== ========= ========= ========= =========  ======== ======== ======= ======== ======= ========
*veaer 13. 1991 14:37
I o 
0o-
lbJ



NICERIA
MATIPM. Ali6CIUMI  [cILO1C  SW'FlUI  8OICT
5.aan AcImts by Tear
lotals Includind Coinlairs                               Totals Including Contin*rin
I3AIRA low00                                              lUSt  000)
I         2         3         4         5      Total         1        2        3       4        5     Total
l. IUSTIMIEN  COSTS
A. IUILDIGSS
PaixIa,                                            6,431.7  6.496.9          -          -         -    7,136.6    601.0    133.7       -         -       -    735.5
Nano                      *                       10751.    420.7   1,786.4         210.8     231.0  17#1119.    , I005.5    375.1   151.4    16.9    17.6  3,566.4
Sd.olo                                            80,623.3   3n730.8   1690.1'    105.4       115.9  16266.3     M.0    333.1  143.3          6.4    6.8  1466.4
---- -  -      ---  -- -  -  -  - --- _-- - -- -- -- -- --- - -- -- --- - - -- - - --  -- - - - -- - - -- --- -- -- --- - -- -- --- -- -- --- - -v- -- --
Sub-total PIliINl1S                                  27#022.3   9.428.4   34n7.5    316.2        347,7  41,312.1  2,600,2    043.6  214.7        25.3   26.3  3,786.4
8. VEHICLES
lauchi                                            86e364.7   2,'01.9   1t,60.4   6,755.4      502.6  21,733.2   3,736.3    197.3   151.4    540.4   38.1  2o658.5
ham                                               26,062.1    181.O           -  13,385.7   10307.3  43,73t.1  2,435.7      67.6        -  1.071.1    9S.0  31613.4
5.1to                                             13163.6          -          -  21,321.6   10316.1  26,47/.2   1,213.3        -       -    M.7    11.8  2218.8
-__   _________                 - ------ ----    ___--_-  ------ -------- ------- ----'D
Suib-Total '.HICLES                                  58,265.4  3L190*9   3,6B0.4  33,465.6  L327,1  979291.5  5,445.4   284.9  151.4  2,517.3  2316.9  6643.
Co ftANI PIIDl (liltHENT
C.~~~ ~ FLN   18CN83E3
Da.hi                                             I7h417.5   5.452.3  13445.0   1,713.8   2       9230.1  21I347.4  1,635.3    416.6  122.5    137.1   169.6  2,551.3
har    .                                          20,710.4   6.10l.5   3,025.7   1,131.1   2.445.1I  38704.4   13133    552.3    B6.9    90.5  200.4 2.666.2
Sob.s,1,                                          19,345.4   4,692.7   3,035.0   13123.9  2,347.0  29a733.1  l,0.O   4U6.0    Y.7            91.9   177.9  2,1.4
- - -- -- --- -- - -- - -- - - - -_-- - - -- -- _-- - -- - -- -- - -- -- -- -- - --  -- - -- -   -    - - -- -- _-- - -- ------ - --- ---- -
I-fotal[ lAN  AI3 EOUIICNT                           57,561.2  16,580.4   3.50M7   3168.7   7231.7  8,785.7  5s3n1.s  1,474.9   297.1   327.5   547.9  8046.1
P. fiLAHlNi RAECIEILS
Paucha                                             3.35   13175.4  13732.6   Ie1II,I   2.s8.^6  3.53.W            185.2    30.7   346,8   152.1  151,2    714,9
kilo                                               3.4I3.1   1,710.1  13,96.5   2,C1005   2,266.0  1s30.1         332.3   153,4   160,1    166.4  173,3    785.5
5.1.1.                                             1,281.3   8,568.6   1,755.4   81.70.6   2.167.l   6,736.0       If?,7    131.4  14660   357,?  164.2    729.0
.- ----- ------ - --^- -- - - - -- -- ------ - - -  -_- - -- - -- -- ----  - -- -- --- - -- -- --- -- -- --- - -- -- --- -- -- --- -- - _---
5.4-lolal TItNiJil3C DIAIERIALS                       3127.6   4,855.2   5,377.5   5,162.2   6,556.6  26,611.3    367.1    433.5  455.7    477.0   46.7  2,230.0
E. CONRSlTNICY# SIUI1ES I   AIMING
$atulci                                            5,062.1  5,370.7   403f0.5   4.301,7   3,654,8  22,309.7    473.2   461.7   365.3 , 320.9  276.1  ,1M05.8
1.ar                                               4196!.7   5,092.9   4,364.7  31955.2   3,414.1  21,666.5    464,4   454.7  354.6    316.4  264.0 13054.2                                        >
53.0oto                                            4,600.7  4,429.6   3,743.4   3,468.1   3,464.5  139707.1    430.0   315.5  317.2    27/.5  262.5  13602.7                                    0  :3
5uh-Iatil CONSILIANCW, 510113,    a IF3lNING.        14.632.3  14,663.4  1:,:30.7  113533.6  10604.1  63,702.2   3.367.5 13311. 13,037.2   122.7  803.4  5,442.6                                   , 
-  TECHNOLOGY  SUPPORT  FACIITY                       5.887.0  16,152.6  2h1 33.1  289165.1  29,189.6 806,517.1      550.2  1442.2 2,291.4  2,251.3 2.212.0  81757.1
lflal l3tESI1ENlI COSTS                               168.095.7  64,839.1  53,631.8  61,412.4  57066.2 425,e05.1  I5470S.S  5,161.2 4543.5  6.153.0 4.323.2 36,678.7



11. RtCIN$I costs
A. SALAPl!S AN  tIt&lWCES
Phi                                                  134.7   13345.  1.674.?   2.032.0   2.433.4  89409.5           07.4    119.2   141.1    162.6  114.3    695.4
IWou                                                "604.4     715.6      787.2     865.9      952.5   3.925.6.    56.5       63.9    66.7     69.3   72.2    329.5
ioklo                                                "7.   1.364.6   1,774.6   1,952.1  2,l47.3   9,226.5           92.3    121.8   150.4    156.2  162.7   68J.4
AliualacIs-asjrAi                                     29.8   1s.50.9   2,60.5   10,23.0   2,165.1  7,679.4          86.9    111.7   136.5    1538.  164.0    652.
Allouaucxs-lino                                    2,190.6   MO497.3   2,716.0   3,009.6   3,310.6  13,734.1       204.7   222.1   231.9    240.3  250.3  1,150.2
Allowamcs-Sototo                                   2,949.5   2,492.7   2,742.0   3,016.2   3,317.8  113517.3       182.1    M.6   232.4    241.3   251.3  1,27.7
b-lotil ALALS ziS ALOVICES                            7;s15.9   9,645.7  lsS.?22,799.3  14,326.7  55,692.3            709.9    U1.2   959.3  1023.9 4s085.4  4,640.1
Os VWHICL[ QngAtlf6 COSIS
Pauchi                                             2W730,7   3,254.2  J348.9   3119,1   4,20.6  27,424.2           259.?   232.6   214.0    305.6  318.2  1,459.3
barq                                               3,700o.   4.308.4  4,733.0   5,217.5   5,737,7  23,701.6        345.8    394.7  402.5    417.4   434.7  2,984.1
SOdeI                                              3,229.2  3,649.3   4901227   4,410.8  4,659.3  20MUM7.7         301.7    325.9   340.2    353.5   38.l   1,69.2
5ub2olezta  WHII     IATIN  COSTS                     1,708,. 1141115   2,2219.4   3,456.2  14,77.6  62,93.6          97.4    M.l 135.5  1,076.5 2,121.0  5232,5
C. rANT ANl EOUIIIINI tIUAIING COSIS
........................... ......-    -*-    ---   
Puwhi                                              1.554*5   .1936,3   2,333.6   2,69.3i   2925.9  1,l220.2    145.3    I7l2.    J'43    205.6   214.1   935.6
tuIflO                                             2,097.3   2,34?,?   2,584.2  2,845.7   3.121,4  23,006.9        196,2    209.1   21,0    227.7   237.1  1081.6                     . *
Sbtle                                              1,674,0   2o067,0   2,273L,   2,505.2  2W7S2W7  112270.0        156,5   214.6   192.6    20.3   208.5    942.4
-- -- - -- - - -- - - --- -- -- --- -  -- -- --- -  -- -- -- --- -- - - - - - -    _ -s-------- _      
Sub-toalf HART  IOUIMII 11I1A11N  COSTS               5,J26.4   65313.2   7,190,    7,n1.7  18708,1  35,417.-1       47.    567.2  6014    U3.5   65f.7  2,967.6
1. C[llDl AMINISIfAlltt costs
Ia.xhi                                             4,l13.4   4s60.2   5025.4   5,533.4  6,060.1  25.315.5    38U.6    407.2   425.1   442.7  459,1  2,121.4
dflIv                                              5,937.9   6,585.5   7,2M2.0   7#95.l  8BMW2.3  36,541.7    s54.9    589.0   614,6    638.3   65.3  3,061.6
Sul oo                                             4i.28.7   4,84.3   5,339.0   5,879.8   6,424.4  26,782.3        400.5    41335   452.5    470.3   406.7  2,243.5
Sub-lolal GCEMl MIIIMS11MIVU  COSIS                  14,359.9  16,000.6  17.616.4  21,317.3  212265.9  91640.0   1,342.0  1,429.6 1.492.?  I,551.3 1961.1 7,426.4
1. uig0iig11  uDUISES
....... ....... .. .. 
Past.i                                             29726.9B  1.782.5   1,460.3   2,158.5   2,373,9  l1,00l.9       254.3    159.2   JU.1    In.7   179.9    932.6
lano 3.11S.5   3,364.6   3,70O.4   4,074.4  4M43O.3  11,738.8                                                      29.       300.4   313.6    326.0   339.5  2,570.9
Sdaolo                                             1,050.0   III0.5   1,221.2  12344.7   147.1   6#,205.1             .      99.1   103.5    107.6   1J2.0    520.4
S.hb-lotal Fl;10el3iW. E[X(SE5                        6,S9.2   6,257.9   68Bl21.   7.577.6   ,3333  15,45.3           644.4    558.7   518.2   60.2   631.3  3,023.?
JoIta iECIEUNI COSIS                                     439BB6.2  49,368.3  55,233.3  61,14.5  6741.5 277,068.0   4.101.5  4,407,? 4,680.9  4,991.9 5,108.4 23,190.6
lalal Ibid CO cestS                                      2112981.9 114,207.6 208,146.6 142,560.9 124,417.7 702.094.7  11,011.4 20,197.1 91224.312,404.9 9,431.6 60,06.3 M 
-- --------------------------    -----------------                                 ---- - --- - ---------- - - - .-------                             -        --- 
Novembr 13, 2792 14:31



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
Proiect Implementation Schedule
Pre-
Project Year     Project   1       2       3       4       5        6       7      8
IBRD FY    FY 92    FY 93  FY 94  FY 95   FY 96  FY 97   FY 98   FY 99  FY2000
91/92   92/93   93/94  94/95    95/96  96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00
Quarter    121314112 34112314 12134112 34 12 3 4 123 4 1213 41234
1.1  Negotiation12391
1.2  Bmoard Presentation                    1 31  |||   |||   |||   |||0   ||      
1.4 Completion Date                                                                                1   I3 9t 2319
1.5  CloBing Date                                                                                          12/3  99
2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.1  SIA Financial Review                        ---
2.2 Update Human Res. Plan
2.3  Establish ATS  Committee                  .
2.4  Sponsored Res. Agreements
2.5  Signing of FGN/State Loan Agreements
2   W 6  Work Program Submitted to Bank              , .|
2.7 Reports
Quarterly.....d,,...
Audited Financial Statement
completion
2.9  Extension Activity-- *------.-
2.10  OFAR  Activity                      ---------------------- --------------------------------------
3. PROJECT SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Task Manager                                       * ,                   .  .  .    . .  .  .  .
Extension Specialist
Research Specialist                                                          ..
WIA Specialist
Financial Specialist



-97-
FEDERAL REPrULIC OF NIG.RIA
NATIONAL A,I;RICULn"RA  TECHNVOUOX SUPPORT EROJEM
Dlsbuesuent Scbeduk
CUMULATIVE
IBRI) FISCAL      IBRD                                   CUMULATIVE         DISBURSEMENT          PROJECT
YEiJR             OUARTER           g2flSEbZNT    DIS MURSEI[                AS %j OFLL ID      PROFILE 1/
FY93              1                               0                   0
11                              0                  0                    -              0
111                           0.9                 0.9                   2
IV                            1.4                 2.3                   5              4
FY94              1                              1.4                 3.7                   9
II                            1.3                 5.0                  12             11
III                           1.8                 6.8                  16
IV                            1.9                 8.7                  20             19
FY95              1                              2.0                10.7                  25
11                            2.1                12.8                  30             27
It                            2.5                15.3                  36
IV                            2.4                17.7                  42             37
FY96              1                              2.4                20.1                  47
it                            2.5                22.6                  53             46
11                            2.4                25.0                  59
IV                            2.4                27.4                  64             56
FY97              1                              2.5                29.9                  70
nI                            2.4                32.4                  76             68
III                           2.4                34.8                  82
IV                            1.9                36.7                  86             79
FY96              1                              1.6                38.3                  90
11                            1.4                39.7                  93             87
III                           1.0                40.7                  96
IV                            0.6                41.3                  97             91
FY99              1                              0.6                41.9                  99
U                             0.6                42.5                 100             94
IV                                                                                    98
It Based on profile of Bank-assisted Agriculture Projects Profile for Nigeria dated April 1990.



-98-
Annex IX
Page 1 of 3
rARDA -O-  M                         l   l
aI ILI NA            MO   M
s On  Spot Pr
PRGUN
T      { t1 ~~~~~~~~~~ui
.  .                T_~~~~~iYU
IjJJIN'
L,



-99-                  ~~~~~Ann'ex I.X
Page 2 of 3
. IS@FMAD O~IIZTIIXI
ft    I
'LfL ?P RO
ION
cein



-100-                            Annex IX
Page 3 of 3
No?
i    IA
Elk                                      DUUAruI
L~~~~~im



-101-
1                                  Annex X
Page 1 of 1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.      Backaround
1.      Managing AgricuLtural Development in Africa (MADIA)
a join study by eight donors and six African
Goverrments (World Bank, USAID, UKODA, DANIDA,
CIDA) the French and German Governments; Kenya,
Malawi, Tanzania, Cameroon, Nigeria and
Senegal Goverrvnents)
2.      Agricultural Policy for Nigeria                               Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources
(Formerly Federal
Ministry of Agriculture,
Water Resources and Rural
Development), January
1987, Lagos
3.      Sub-Saharan Africa:  From Crisis to                           World Bank, Washington,
Sustainable Growth - A Long-Term Perspective                 D.C., November 1989
Study
4.      Strategy for Agricultural Growth in Nigeria                   World Bank Agricultural
Sector Report No. 7988-
UNI, December 1989
B.      Prolect Identification and Preoaratfon Report
1.      National Agricultural Technology Support Project
Brief - FAO/CP Report No. 70/90 CP-NIR 32PB,
June 4, 1990
2.      Project Preparation Report- Main Text and Five
Working Papers. Federal Agricultural Coordinating
Unit, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resource, 1989
C.      Workina Papers
1.      Memorandmn of Understanding for the conduct of Monthly Technology Review Meetings
2.      Adaptive Research:
Part I: On-Farm Adaptive Research
Part II: Review of Adaptive Research in Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto, Messages
Future Strategy
3.      Suggested Protocol for Sponsored Research Contract
4.      Animal Traction and Farm Implements
5.      Agro-forestry and Soil and Water ianagement
6.      Agricultural Extension Services
7.      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
8.      Mediun to Long-Term Human Resource Development Plan for Kano, Bauchi, and
Sokoto
9.       Technology Sub-projects Facility
10.     The Nature, Rate and Effective Limits of Intensification in the
Smaltholder Farming System of Kano Closed-Settled Zone



4-                                                                              IBr  Y  0 N -I  G  E  R  2 _  _4    IBRD 23561
4- s*2                                                   i6-                 1'2o   AW.02VEGEI'- -  Z 24-   >
bS ~ ~ Bon Roac 'C.  -
\     D20    4D 60A CDIDIo  o
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR I 9
'C2a
-    DMAWAU UI      CA
B E N I N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   RVEEAIN OE 
00
Igo            KAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
lo,                                                                                 NV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAY19



