Document of
The World Bank   FILE C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No, 2507d-BD
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
September 26, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently,
the Taka, US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1         -   Tk 15.5
Tk 1         -   US$0.065
Tk 1 million -   US$65,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                   =     0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile                        =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)         =      640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                   =      30.5 centimeters cm)
1 maund (md)                  =      82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 md/ac                       =      0.037 tons/ac
1 metric ton 1/ (ton)         =      26.8 md
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI    -  Agricultural Research Institute
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRRI   -  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CIDA   -  Canadian International Development Agency
DOAEM  -  Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
DRB    -  Design and Research Branch, WDB
FCC    -  Flood Control Cell
FFWP   -  Food-for-Work Program
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
HYV    -  High Yielding Varieties
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
IRRI   -  International Rice Research Institute
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MLG    -  Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives
MRR    -  Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation
TIP    -  Thana Irrigation Programme
PIC    -  Project Implementation Committee
WDB    -  Water Development Board
WFP    -  World Food Program
1/   All tons mentioned in the report are metric tons.



i Wn. ''riLiAL UbL UINL Y
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS
CE    =   Chief Engineer
CO        Circle Officer, Development
EE    =   Executive Engineer
PIO       Project Implementation Officer
SDO   =   Sub-divisional Officer
SE    =   Superintending Engineering
TAO   =   Thana Agricultural Officer
UAA   =   Union Agricultural Assistant
ZCE       Zonal Chief Engineer
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman - Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in
June) and harvested in November or December (b. aman is
broadcast aman, t.aman is transplanted aman).
Aus   -  Paddy planted during March and April and harvested during July
- and August (b. aus is broadcast aus, t. aus is transplanted aus).
Boro - Paddy planted in winter and harvested during April to June.
Rabi - Dry season.
Paddy - Unhusked rice.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Is    INTRODUCTION  .........................................................                    I
II.     BACKGROUND              . .............................................                   1
General ..........................                                                  1
The  Agricultural  Sector  .............................                            2
IDA Operations  in  the Agricultural  Sector  ....                    .......       6
Cropping  Patterns  .................................. .                            7
Supporting  Services  for Agriculture  ................ .                           7
III.      THE  FOOD-FOR-WORK PROGRAM  ...............................                             10
Objectives  and  Background                    ...........................        10
Method  of Operation  ............            ..        ...................       10
Other  Food-For-Work Programs    .........   .                ...............     12
The  CIDA Project  ..................              .....          .............   13
Achievements  of  FFWP  and  Similar Programs  ....                   .......     13
Problems  and  Issues  Involving  FFWP  ....... ...... .......                    14
IV.    THE PROJECT  .........................................es        .....so ...  ..... s      15
Project  Formulation  .......             ..........................              15
The Project Area  .......            ............................ .               15
The Project  ..................................................                   16
General  ....            .......................................               16
Criteria  for Subproject Selection  ................                           17
The  Six Subprojects  Examined  During  Appraisal    .*                        18
Consultants  .......................................                           19
Project  Implementation                     ............................       20
Project  Costs  ......... ............... .......................              21
Financing ....................................... so.                          22
Procurement  .......   ................................                        22
Accounts  and  Audits  .............            ..      ................       23
Disbursement              ...........  ................                        23
Joint Project  Revolving  Fund  .....                  ....................         24
Environmental  Impact  ......                ...........................            25
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Bangladesh in February 1979 comprising Messrs. H.J. Tennent, C.P. Cheng (IDA)
and P.I. Sant (Consultant). Figures were checked by Ms. G. Lituma (IDA).



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....... . . . .  ............................ * *    26
Organization and Procedures .....................  ....    26
Consultants ................... ...... *.. * * ** *****.......  28
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)  .....................    28
Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................    29
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ..........    30
Production ......                       ..................  30
Marketing ................... .....................................    31
Prices . .....................*........................    32
Incomes .....................................................  .    32
Cost  Recovery   ...... . o .... . *  .....*..****** .***** .***.*.......  33
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION             ............... .........    35
Distributive Impact .......................................  36
Economic Justification ..      ............................    36
Sensitivity and Risk ...... ........                        38
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........                  39
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1
The Six Subproject Areas Examined During Appraisal
A.   Bhola Island (West) Bakarganj District
B.   Bhola Island (South) Bakarganj District
C.   Nurania Khal, Jessore District
D.   Harihar River, Jessore District
E.   Sanir Haor, Sylet District
F.   Dhurung Khal, Chittagong District
Tables 1 through 6 - Present and Future Yields, Production and Cropping
Intensity in A to F above.
Table 7              - Foodgrain Production in the Six Subproject Areas
Tables 8 through 13 - Cost Estimates for A to F above.



- iii -
ANNEX 2
Table 1 - Climatic Data
2 - Land Area, Population and Farm Size
3 - Equipment and Vehicles
4 - Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
5 - Proposed Credit Allocation
6 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7 - Farm Budget Summaries
8   Annual Direct Benefits with Full Development
9 - Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis
10 - Price of Internationally Traded Commodities for
Economic Analyses
11 - Cost and Benefit Streams of the Six Subprojects
12 - Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 3   Guidelines for Assembly of Technical Information and
Preparation of Appraisal of Schemes
ANNEX 4   Procedures for Use of Revolving Fund
ANNEX 5   Consultants Terms of Reference
ANNEX 6   Terms of Reference:  WDB Task Forces on Organization and
Implementation
ANNEX 7   Related Documents and Background Papers
List of Tables in Main Text
3.1 Food-For-Work-Project Achievements (1974/75-78/79)
3.2 Physical Achievements, Wheat Allocated and Man-days
Employed Under FFWP
4.1 Cost Estimates
6.1 Present and Future Cropping Patterns in the Six
Subproject Areas
6.2 Paddy Yields in the Six Subproject Areas
6.3 Summary of Estimated Foodgrain Production of the Project
6.4 Annual Net Farm Income for the Six Subprojects
7.1 Increased Farm Labor Requirement for the Six Subprojects
7.2 Phasing of Benefits
7.3 Economic Rate of Return of the Six Subprojects
7.4 Sensitivity Analysis
Chart     World Bank 20213 Organization Chart
Map       IBRD 14291R - Bangladesh and the Location of the Six Subprojects
Examined During Appraisal






BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has asked IDA for assistance in
financing the permanent structures (known locally as appurtenant structures)
required to make schemes constructed under the Bangladesh Food-for-Work Program
(FFWP) fully effective. Supported by the World Food Program (WFP), FFWP
constructs earthworks for flood protection embankments, and excavates drains
and irrigation canals but does not have the resources to provide the drainage
sluices, regulators, culverts, and other control structures needed for the
schemes (referred to in this report as subprojects) to yield their potential
benefits.
1.02      The earthworks executed under FFWP are generally planned and de-
signed to provide either flood control, drainage or irrigation, or a combi-
nation of these. The complementary permanent structures to be constructed
under the project would have a low investment cost.  By permitting much
improved water control at farm level, they would be quick yielding and
generate high rates of return.
1.03      The proposed project was prepared by WDB, assisted by a consultant
(NEDECO, Netherlands) financed under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit
622-BD. The project wa8 appraised in February 1979 by a mission consisting
of Messrs. H. J. Tennent, C. P. Cheng (IDA) and P. I. Sant (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Bangladesh, with a population of about 86 M and a cultivable area
of only some 22.5 M ac, of which one third is normally flooded annually,
presents a critical and complex development problem. The population is poor
(per capita income about US$90), overcrowded, (1,550 per sq mi and growing
at 2.7% per year), short-lived (life expectancy at birth is well under 50
years), in many cases unemployed (perhaps 25-30%), and largely illiterate
(about 75%). Foodgrain imports of about 1.5 M tons, or nearly 15% of total
requirements, are necessary in the "normal" year to maintain per capita
consumption levels. Drought, untimely rains, excessive floods and cyclones
periodically bring disaster and frequently adverse weather conditions,
such as a dry period in the fall of 1978 (para 2.07), result in a sharp
increase in the need for foodgrain imports.



-2-
2.02      Government gives priority to agricultural and rural development
as the means to benefit the largest number of people.  The major objective is
to attain self-sufficiency in foodgrain production in the shortest possible
time and to increase substantially jute production for export. Specifically,
Government aims at increasing the production of foodgrain by 4% to 5% a
year which would provide nearly 20 M tons 1/ by 1984/85. This objective
points to the need to generate without delay a series of quick-yielding,
labor-intensive and low cost projects. The project described in this report
would have these characteristics.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy accounting for 55%
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 75% of all employment and, directly or
indirectly, over 80% of the country's exports. About 70% of the agricultural
GDP is derived from crops and the rest from forestry, fisheries and livestock
in roughly equal proportions. Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which
about 22.5 M ac are under cultivation at a cropping intensity averaging 135%
in recent years. Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for about
80% of the cropped area; jute, the principal export, for 6%, and a variety of
other crops such as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables for the
remaining 14%. Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in
the world; the average paddy yield of about 0.5 ton per ac is barely half of
the average for Asia as a whole.
2.04      The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural
poor in order to improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase
export earnings. The Government's strategy for the sector emphasizes strength-
ening of rural institutions, improvement of farm input supplies, better util-
ization of existing irrigation facilities, and further expansion of irrigation
facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation schemes.
Performance and Near-Term Prospects
2.05      During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate
of 2.5% and foodgrain production at an annual rate of 2.4%. However, both
lagged behind the population growth rate of about 2.8%. As a result, food-
grain imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in FY61 to over 1.5 M tons
in FY70. Due to adverse weather conditions, as well as disruptions caused by
the war of liberation, production during the early 1970s remained below FY70
levels, necessitating imports averaging 1.8 M tons per year and accounting
for about one-quarter of the total import bill. In FY78, due to favorable
weather conditions, a more effective procurement effort and the sharply
increased supplies of fertilizers and other agricultural inputs, foodgrain
production reached a record 13.1 M tons, some 10% above the 1970 level. Never-
theless, the production fell short of the requirements by 1.6 million tons.
1/   Foodgrain requirements are based upon a forecast population of 100 M
by 1984/85 and a daily allowance of 15.5 oz/person.



-3-
2.06      Jute production also declined significantly during the early 1970s
and, despite a reversal of the declining trend, the FY78 production remained
below the pre-independence FY70 level by about 25%. The production of a
number of minor crops (such as sugarcane, pulses, oilseeds and potatoes) has
also remained depressed. Wheat production has, however, more than tripled
since FY70.
2.07      Due to unfavorable weather during the aman crop and acute diesel
shortages for the irrigated boro crop in FY79, the foodgrain production is
expected to be considerably below the FY78 level, probably about 12.8 M tons.
Coupled with expected shortfalls in import arrivals during FY79, this could
lead to serious food shortages over the coming months. The Government, in
consultation with IDA, is examining various measures to avert a possible
crisis. Due to the expanded coverage of the Intensive Jute Cultivation Program,
FY79 jute production is provisionally estimated to be some 20% above the level
achieved in FY78. Wheat production is also expected to be substantially
higher. However, despite good performance for jute and wheat, the agricultural
sector during FY79 was stagnant.  Reports up to mid-May 1979 indicated that the
arrival of the 1979 monsoon in Bangladesh was late. It would have a negative
effect on the growth of both the aus crop and seedling raising for the t. aman
crop and the jute crop. Jute production in FY80 is now estimated to be less
than 5.0 M bales. However, it is still too early to estimate how seriously the
drought would affect the foodgrain supply in 1979/80.
Constraints and Potential
2.08      Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by scarcity
of cultivable land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and
deficient transportation for moving farm inputs and produce. These con-
straints, however, can be over-emphasized. Bangladesh has large areas of
highly fertile deltaic soils, a climate suitable for year-round cropping,
and abundant groundwater resources for dry season irrigation. Also, the
development of high yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice and wheat, suitable for
cultivation in large areas of Bangladesh even under rainfed conditions, has
opened up the prospect of substantial increases in production that can be
brought about quickly and inexpensively.  Much of the potential, however,
has not yet been exploited.
2.09      Available data on unemployment and rural poverty in Bangladesh
indicate an increasingly precarious situation. A recent survey indicates that
the distribution of land ownership in rural Bang.ladesh is highly skewed and
may be deteriorating. Landlessness is increasing and fragmentation of hold-
ings brought about by population pressure is reducing more and more farms to
below-subsistence size.  It is estimated that about 40% of rural households
are landless and that only 25% of all rural households now own more than 2 ac,
the minimum holding size necessary to provide subsistence income. However,
even the larger landowners (over 8 acres) would be considered small and poor
in countries other than Bangladesh.



-4-
2.10      The heavy pressure of population on land represents a major devel-
opment constraint. A typical holding of 2 ac is split into six plots.
This constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm management and makes the
organization of cooperative irrigation systems difficult. An additional
constraint is the agricultural tenancy arrangements, under which about 30% of
Bangladesh farmers operate. Because of the customary rental arrangements, the
tenant is normally expected to provide all of the inputs, but receives only
about half of the crop and has no right of occupancy. For tenant farmers
there is little incentive to develop lands for irrigation or to adopt improved
farming practices.
2.11      A number of organizational deficiencies have also adversely affected
growth. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations.
Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and unreli-
able distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides, and by the absence of an effective extension system. Adequate
marketing, processing and storage facilities, as well as a rational and
efficient credit policy, have also been lacking. The inability of the various
existing agencies and departments to fulfill these key functions is due to
weaknesses in planning as well as in implementation. Agricultural planning
has generally been based on an extremely poor data base, inadequate analysis,
and very little feedback from operating departments, resulting in unrealistic
targets, inflexible and uncoordinated programs and unexpected bottlenecks
during implementation. On the implementation side, the weaknesses include
excessive centralization of decision-making, overly cumbersome administrative
procedures, inadequately trained manpower, unattractive staff salaries and
benefits and poorly defined work responsibilities. Despite these handicaps,
the Government has made important progress in promoting improved farming
technologies -- during 1970-78 irrigated areas increased by 1.2 M ac, fertil-
izer consumption increased from some 280,000 tons to 715,000 tons and use of
HYVs spread from about 1.0 M ac to 3.0 M ac.
2.12      Further growth in agricultural productivity is a prerequisite for
meeting many of the country's other major economic objectives, ranging from
food self-sufficiency to equitable income distribution and from increased
domestic resource mobilization to sustained overall growth. The Government's
stated objective is to achieve food self-sufficiency by FY85. At an average
per capita consumption of 15.5 ounces of grain per day, this would require
production of nearly 20 M tons by that time. This implies a sustained annual
growth rate of nearly 5% over the record FY78 crop level. This is an ambitious
target, particularly in view of the likely setbacks during FY79. A growth
potential of between 3.5% and 4% would be more realistic, postponing foodgrain
self-sufficiency to about 1988.
Policies and Issues
2.13      The cornerstones of an effective policy for raising agricultural
production are: (i) adequate and timely supplies of modern agricultural
inputs and their efficient application; and (ii) attractive input/output
price relationships for farmers. Given the extent and nature of farm level
constraints, a longer-term drive to increase farm production will have to



-5-
combine efforts to achieve significant progress on a number of fronts in-
cluding irrigation, fertilizers, HYV seeds, pesticides, credit and extension.
2.14      Irrigation brings high pay-offs in increased productivity.  The
expansion of irrigated acreage beyond the present 2.9 M ac would result in
direct increases in average cropping intensity, as more acreage would be
suitable for an additional crop in the dry season. An expansion of up to a
total of 5.5 M acres is considered to be technically feasible by 1985. Even
with the present low crop yields, this would result in about 2.1 M tons of
additional foodgrain output per year. To accomplish this goal, quick-yielding
schemes with relatively low capital requirements per ac should have priority. l/
Further gains could be made by improving the present low utilization of exist-
ing irrigation capacity and raising the actual irrigated acreage to levels
approaching the potential command area. This would require improved provision
of maintenance services, spare parts and fuel for existing pumps by involving
the private sector as well as by strengthening irrigation cooperatives.
2.15      If the announced goal of national foodgrain self-sufficiency is to
be met by 1985, rough calculations indicate that between 1.5 and 2.0 M tons of
fertilizer (depending on the incremental yield assumptions) and 4.8 M ac of
irrigated land and expansion of HYVs to about 8.0 M ac would be required. As
these inputs are divisible and replicable, the Government would be assured of
high returns of its investment in these two areas regardless of the actual size
of the budgetary allocation to them in any particular year. Finally, greater
supply of these inputs will facilitate considerably greater utilization by the
smaller farmers than has been possible in the present limited supply situation
in which the larger landowners tend to obtain a disproportionate share of the
available quantities.
2.16      A substantially expanded program of supplying these inputs would
not be feasible on budgetary grounds if the present levels of input subsidies
remain in effect. Neither can their retention be defended in terms of equity
considerations as the main beneficiaries are not always the smaller farmers.
If, as expected, the subsidies are to be gradually phased out in the context
of a program of increased supply, care will have to be taken to maintain
incentive relationships between input and output prices through effective
output price support measures.
2.17      At Government's request, IDA is working with various GOB agencies
to help prepare a Medium-Term Agricultural Production Plan which would address
a number of the above issues. During the Plan preparation special attention
will be paid to: achieving the quickest feasible reduction in subsidies to
improve GOB's financial position; the procurement system; marketing and in-
centive prices for foodgrains and other important crops; adequate and timely
supply of fertilizer, diesel fuel, seeds and pesticides; improved supply of
1/   Several such schemes have been identified in a recent joint GOB/IBRD
review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board and include subprojects
supported by FFWP.



-6-
institutional credit; better utilization of existing irrigation systems and
equipment; expanding investments in low capital intensive irrigation, drainage
and flood control works; development of location specific HYVs adapted to the
cropping seasons and hydrologic conditions of Bangladesh; strengthening of
extension and supportive applied research; intensified and expanded in-service
training; and improved project planning and implementation. To provide ade-
quate and timely feedback on sectoral performance and particularly as regards
production, farmgate prices and input use, the Plan would include establish-
ment of monitoring and evaluation cells within appropriate agencies of the
Government.
IDA Operations in the Agricultural Sector
2.18      In addition to assisting in preparation of the Medium Term Agri-
cultural Production Plan, IDA is involved in a major program of financing
agricultural and rural development. Up to date IDA has financed 14 projects
in the agricultural sector. Seven involve irrigation, drainage and flood
control and the remaining six the development of agricultural extension ser-
vices, agricultural research, jute cultivation, the seeds industry, inland
fisheries, grain storage and an area based rural development program. Of
projects in the irrigation, drainage, and flood control sector, the Chandpur
II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD, 1972, US$13.0 M), provides flood protec-
tion for about 140,000 ac and irrigation for about 75,000 ac; the Northwest
Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD, 1972, US$14.0 M), provides irrigation from
groundwater for about 180,000 ac; the Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit
542-BD, 1975, US$27.0 M), will provide irrigation for about 140,000 ac by
low-lift pumping; the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD, 1976,
US$21.0 M), will provide irrigation, flood control and drainage to 46,000 ac;
the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD, 1977, US$16.0 M), will provide
irrigation from groundwater for about 150,000 ac; the Muhuri Irrigation Project
(Credit 725-BD, 1977, US$21.0 M), will provide irrigation to about 35,000 ac
and improved drainage to about 50,000 ac. The Drainage and Flood Control
Project I (Credit 864-BD, 1978, US$19.0 M), will provide flood protection and
drainage to three areas totalling about 270,000 ac. The implementation of
these seven projects has involved substantial delays. Reasons for slippage in
implementation schedules have been primarily administrative and a consequence
of bureaucratic bottlenecks and controls that tend to constrain individual
initiative. Thus there have been difficulties in hiring of consultants;
appointment of project staff; timely release of budgetary allocations; approval
of contracts; coordination among implementing agencies; and procurement. The
Government has taken a number of steps to remedy the most serious bottlenecks,
and both IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and
supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems at the earliest
possible stage. In addition, IDA is assisting GOB in strenghtening key agri-
cultural ministries and agencies, e.g. the Water Development Board (WDB)
(Chapter V) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC),
through detailed studies of their organizations and operating procedures.
These steps have produced noticeable improvements in the rate of project
implementation and further improvements are expected.



-7 -
Cropping Patterns
2.19      In many areas of the country crop production is affected by one or
a combination of the following problems: early floods; intrusion of saline
water; poor drainage in the monsoon season; or lack of irrigation in the dry
season. Consequently, farmers are uncertain about the success of their cul-
tivation in the face of low yields and sometimes even partial or com,plete loss
of crops. Under these circumstances, there is a reluctance to use fertilizers
and other purchased inputs.
2.20      Cropping patterns vary in relation to climate, elevation of the
land and annual flooding patterns. Paddy, which is by far the major crop,
occupies about 80% of agricultural land. Jute occupies 6% and a variety
of other crops such as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables
the remaining 14%. The overall cropping intensity averages about 135%,
varying from 179% in the north, which has considerable irrigation (largely
from deep tubewells), to 114% in the south, which has limited irrigation
and is subject to tidal action, particularly during the wet season.
2.21      Three main paddy crops are grown in Bangladesh:
aus   -  short season varieties sown in March/April and
harvested in July/August;
aman  -  long season varieties sown in March/April or-June/July
and harvested in November/December 1/; and
boro  -  varieties grown in rabi (dry season) under irrigation.
Both aus and aman varieties may be grown from broadcast seed (b. aus or
b. aman) or transplanted (t. aus or t. aman); the transplanted crop gives
a higher yield.
2.22      The most common cropping pattern is aus and aman followed, where
irrigation or residual moisture makes it possible, by a dry season crop such
as boro rice, or wheat, vegetables, pulses and oilseeds. Farming equipment
and methods are primitive. Cattle are used for plowing and leveling of the
seedbed; most other field operations are performed by hand.
Supporting Services for Agriculture
2.23      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for agricultural
research and extension, and through BADC, for the procurement and distribution
of agricultural inputs.
1/   Those sown in March/April are floating varieties capable of surviving
in very deep water.



-8-
2.24      Fertilizer.  Although the demand for fertilizer in Bangladesh has
grown dramatically over the past decade, present use remains significantly
below recommended levels. Over half of the supply has been imported in
recent years. BADC imports and distributes all fertilizer to the thana
level where it is retailed by private dealers or cooperatives. In spite of
the Government's effort to meet demand, supplies have been inadequate and a
black market now operates in most parts of the country. In recognition of
the inadequate supplies and also the desirability of meeting the needs from
domestic supplies, Government has undertaken a program to recondition some
of the existing fertilizer plants as well as to construct a new plant at
Ashuganj (Cr. 527-BD). In addition, GOB is actively considering programs to
update and improve the existing distribution and storage system and in this
is receiving financial and technical assistance from USAID.
2.25      Plant Protection.  BADC is responsible for procurement of pesticides
while the Plant Protection Division of the MOA is responsible for storage,
distribution and guidance on application. The use of pesticides is not ex-
tensive. Prior to 1974, pesticides were supplied free to the farmers and
that often led to inefficient and wasteful use. Since then a 50% reduction
in the subsidy has cut down on wastage. Farmers' knowledge, however, about
types, dosages and protective measures is still inadequate. Supplies received
through bilateral aid are adequate to meet current demand.
2.26      Seeds.  BADC is responsible for seed production and distribution.
Currently, only rice and wheat seeds are multiplied and distributed locally
under the Registered Growers Scheme organized by BADC. A project financed
by IDA (Cr. 410-BD) for improving seed multiplication, certification and
distribution is underway and progressing satisfactorily.
2.27      Agricultural Research.  The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI), which was established in 1970, works in close cooperation with the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines, and is
responsible for research on various aspects of rice improvement and produc-
tion and for the training of extension staff and subject matter specialists.
The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) deals with development of crops
such as wheat, pulses and oilseeds.  Separate organizations also exist for
research on jute, cotton, tobacco and sugarcane.  Others involved in agri-
cultural research are the Mymensingh Agricultural University and the Soil
Fertility Institute.  The coordination of research is the responsibility of
the newly established Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council.
2.28      The quality of research conducted by BRRI is good.  The other re-
search organizations, however, suffer from lack of staff, funds and to some
extent, motivation due to low salaries and allowances and lack of transport.
Another major problem with the current research program is the lack of emphasis
on adapting basic research results to the different agro-enviromental con-
ditions found in Bangladesh. The Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD),
and the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 828-BD), financed by IDA are both
designed to strengthen agricultural research. Both projects are in progress.



-9-
2.29       Agricultural Extension Services.  The Directorate of Agriculture,
Extension and Management (DOAEM) in the MOA, maintains extension agents at
District, Sub-Division, Thana and Union levels. The Union Agricultural
Assistants (UAAs) which average one per 2,000 farm families are the primary
field extension workers. Their work is supervised by Thana Agricultural
Officers (TAOs).
2.30       The extension service has been largely ineffective because:
(a) its programs tend to be obsolete and diffuse; (b) the technical advice
given by extension workers often lags behind research findings; (c) the staff
is poorly trained and handicapped by a lack of transportation facilities,
housing and training materials; and (d) extension workers are often used by
other agencies for administrative work, such as census and statistical report-
ing. With assistance from IDA (Cr. 729-BD), Government is now reorganizing
the extension service in the North of the country (para 2.28) on the basis
of the Training and Visit System 1/.
2.31       Agricultural Credit.  Even though since liberation in 1971,
GOB has attempted to expand institutional credit, it is still not available
to the vast majority of farmers. Some 85% of them either use no credit or
depend upon private sources. The remaining 15% receive their credit from
the Agricultural Credit Banks (the Bangladesh Krishi Bank or the Bangladesh
Jatiya Sambaya Bank (a cooperative bank) or the six commercial banks which
were nationalized in 1972 and began to make agricultural loans in 1973.
The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) assists farmer groups on
processing these loans. IDA is currently financing, under the Second
Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 622-BD), a study by consultants of the
agricultural credit subsector.
1/   Reference may be made to "Agricultural Extension:  The Training and
Visit System" by Daniel Benor and James Q. Harrison, World Bank,
May 1977.



- 10 -
III. THE FOOD-FOR-WORK PROGRAM
Objectives and Background
3.01      The Food-For-Work Program (FFWP) is supported by grants of food-
grains from the World Food Program (WFP). Since its inception in 1975, other
donors have launched similar schemes (paras 3.09-3.10). The major purpose of
FFWP is to provide relief by employing the unemployed and underemployed in
activities of economic value. Typically these schemes are labor intensive
earthmoving works involving the construction, or repair and rehabilitation, of
embankments, roads, canals, tanks and drains; removal of water hyacinth from
irrigation and other waterways; and cleaning of village tanks and fish ponds.
In these activities food, normally wheat, is provided in lieu of cash wages.
To enhance the relief characteristics of FFWP its constituent schemes are
located, as far as is possible, in particularly disadvantaged areas and the
food "wage" set at a level that makes such employment attractive only to the
very poor. In practice, however, rural Bangladesh is universally poor and,
with unemployment and underemployment in the rural labor force averaging
about 35%, few areas, if any, would fail to qualify for participation.
-3.02      FFWP was started in 1975 following a decision in late 1974 by GOB
that, with the improvement in the overall foodgrain supply, the relief handouts
of foodgrain that had been necessary in earlier years should be progressively
replaced by food-for-work schemes of the type described briefly above.
3.03      At the beginning of 1975, GOB asked WFP to provide food aid to
support this policy. WFP responded with a grant of 56,240 metric tons of
wheat under an agreed Plan of Operations signed in May 1975 and involving a
cost to WFP of US$10.45 M, of which the cost of food was US$9 M. In the mean-
time, however, GOB with the concurrence of WFP, started to implement FFWP in
April 1975 using supplies from its own stocks. The initial grant of food was
designed to last one year. Extensions of FFWP, termed by WFP as Expansions,
were made in July 1976 for another year and in 1977 for a further three-year
period. Expansion I involved 108,000 tons (US$21 M total cost) and Expansion
II 314,000 tons (US$61 M). The Expansions were made following generally
favorable reports by multidisciplinary Project Evaluation Missions mounted by
WFP headquarters and which visited Bangladesh to review the progress and
impact of FFWP in April 1976 and April 1977. Another evaluation mission
visited Bangladesh in March 1979 and a Third Expansion covering a further
three years (for a probable 360,000 tons with a total cost to WFP of about
US$72 M including freight) is expected.
Method of Operation
3.04      Overall responsibility for coordinating FFWP and other food-for-work
schemes rests with the Secretary of the Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation
(MRR) assisted by two Joint Secretaries, one for FFWP and a second for pro-
grams supported by other donors, two Deputy Secretaries, five Section Officers
and supporting staff. As stipulated in the Plan of Operations a Coordinating



- 11 -
and Policy Advisory Committee, at the Secretary level, and chaired by the
Secretary MRR has been established to provide the policy framework for FFWP
and ensure coordination between participating ministries and agencies.
3.05      At the field level the key official in the administration of FFWP
and similar schemes is the Circle Officer, Development (CO). Each CO is res-
ponsible for four or five Thanas (the smallest central Government administra-
tive unit) and himself reports to a Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) whose sub-
division typically covers three to five circles. The CO has multitudinous
duties in the relief, welfare and development spheres. To assist him in
Food-For-Work activities MRR has created the position of Project Implementa-
tion Officer (PIO) for each Thana. The principal task of the PIO, usually a
sub-graduate engineer, is to organize and act as member-secretary of Thana
Project Implementation Committees (PIC) that are set up to organize and
supervise the labor needed to carry out approved scheme. The CO is chairman
of the PIC.
3.06      Schemes financed by FFWP originate usually in one of two ways.
First, those identified by Government agencies, in particular the WDB, MOA,
IRDP, and Ministry of Fisheries. In the case of these agencies, particularly
WDB, the schemes may have been long identified; some, for example, are in-
cluded in national or regional master development plans but have been held
in abeyance because of lack of funds. The second group comprise schemes
proposed by the Thana authorities; generally these subprojects are developed
jointly by elected Thana and Union (the basic local government administrative
unit) representatives, or even individuals, aided by Thana officials. In the
experience of FFWP these so-called local initiative schemes have tended to be
smaller, technically less well designed and prepared, not always economically
justified, and ultimately, if implemented, less well supervised than those
proposed and subsequently managed by the technical agencies of Government.
For this reason, WFP in Expansion I and II has, in agreement with MRR, pro-
gressively reduced its allocation for local initiative schemes and increased
the share of its grant of food for schemes formulated and supervised by
the technical agencies. Under Expansion I, covering the period March 1976 to
April 1977, about 50% of resources were directed to subprojects managed by
technical agencies. Under the ongoing Expansion II, and the future Expansion
III, the proportion has been increased to over 90%.
3.07      Schemes proposed for FFWP assistance by the technical agencies
are subject to approval by MRR which in turn obtains clearance from the WFP
representative in Dacca. In the case of WDB whizh directs over 80% of the
work supported by Expansion II of FFWP the propo;al is usually initiated by
the WDB Executive Engineer (EE) in charge of the area in which the proposed
project is located. To justify his proposal he submits a relatively simple
feasibility study encompassing broad technical features, cost estimates,
benefits and an economic analysis, through his Superintending Engineer (SE)
and Zonal Chief Engineer (ZCE) to the Chief Engineer (CE) of the Flood Control
Cell of WDB. The latter is responsible for appraising all FFWP schemes man-
aged by WDB. If the CE wishes to proceed further he obtains the clearance
of the Member, Implementation, WDB who then passes on the approved proposal



- 12 -
to MRR with a request for FFWP support. MRR consolidates the requests and
seeks approval of the WFP representative in Dacca. Following final sanction
of the scheme by WFP, MRR authorizes the SDO in charge of the administration of
the area to allocate specific amounts of wheat from locally held Government
stocks for use in connection with the schemes. The SDO also allocates MRR
funds to cover the cost of transport of the grain to the work site of the
District EE, WDB, who is ultimately responsible for the supervision of the
subproject 1/ (in the case of local initiated schemes the responsibility for
supervision rests with the CO assisted by the Thana PIO). In the case of both
WDB and local initiative schemes, PIC are formed to recruit and manage the
labor force required and, in the case of local initiative schemes these are
responsible for collecting the wheat from GOB godowns. For this they are paid
the cost of transportation by the SDO. Where a scheme involves more than one
Thana, for example a long embankment, a PIC is established for each Thana
involved. Supervisors are appointed by the PIC, each of whom is responsible
for at least five labor groups, each made up of 20-25 workers and headed by a
gang leader. The PIC is responsible for making payments in wheat. Routine
returns of wheat paid out and work completed are made to MRR which itself
submits quarterly statements on each scheme to WFP which are ultimately
incorporated in a quarterly report. MRR has its own audit and inspection
teams that regularly check accounts.
3.08      The standard payment for earthmoving, the principal activity in
FFWP schemes, is three seers of wheat (about 6 lbs) for a daily task of 70 cu
ft of earth moved, with additional allowances for above average leads or lifts.
At present wheat prices, three seers of wheat have a market value of about
Tk 5.5 comparing with an average cash wage of Tk 8-9 per day plus food for
similar work by workers privately employed for a daily task of 100 cu ft.
The task for women, who are encouraged to participate, is 50 cu ft and the
payment for this is also three seers. Three seers of wheat are estimated
to provide the energy requirements of a family of five, and thus about 90% of
the needs of the average Bangladesh family of 5.6 people. Many participants,
however, sell part or the whole of the wheat they earn in order to buy other
essential commodities. Generally wheat is distributed to workers twice
weekly as work progresses.
Other Food-For-Work Programs
3.09      USAID operates a program similar to FFWP and of a comparable size
in terms of wheat delivered (in the current year FFWP 107,000 tons, USAID
100,000 tons). The USAID program commenced operation in 1976 one year after
WFP assisted FFWP. Operationally the USAID program functions in the same way
as FFWP with the exception that CARE is employed by USAID as an executing
agency, and has a small team of technical experts which assists in scheme
1/   Commencing with the 1979 construction season, MRR allocates funds for
WDB schemes directly to WDB, which in turn re-allocates the required
amounts to EE's in charge of the schemes.



- 13 -
design and supervision. The USAID scheme deals basically with local initia-
tive subprojects. A number of other bilateral donors, in particular Canada,
Australia, Libya and the Federal Republic of Germany also made donations of
wheat for use in Food-For-Work schemes operated on FFWP principles. With the
exception of Canada, these donors do not provide special technical assistance.
In 1978 such bilateral donations excluding those of USAID, amounted to just
over 60,000 tons.
The CIDA Project
3.10      Since 1977 The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
have been financing a project called "Canadian Assistance to WFP assisted
Food-For-Work Schemes in Bangladesh."   This project was approved on May 19,
1977 and provides C$4 M for the construction of permanent structures in FFWP
schemes located in the Northwest Region and south of the Karnafuli River
in Chittagong District. The project includes the provision of consultants
(Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Ltd., Canada), to assist WDB in the
selection, planning, design and construction supervision of schemes. The
consultants work closely with WDB's Technical Unit (CIDA's name for the Flood
Control Cell (para 3.07)) and use criteria for project selection, which are
similar to those recommended for the proposed project. The CIDA program is
similar to the proposed project, except that it is smaller and currently runs
for three years. Disbursement procedures involve a quarterly advance of funds
to WDB based on a quarterly statement showing actual expenditures for the
previous quarter and forecast expenditure for the next quarter.
Achievements of FFWP and Similar Programs
3.11      Achievements so far have been significant.  The table below shows
wheat distributed under all Food-For-Work schemes in Bangladesh since the
inception of the programs in 1974/75, amount of work carried out, and the
total man-days involved.
Table 3.1: All Food-For-Work Projects Achievements (1974/75 - 1978/79)
No. of   Annual Wheat        Construction                 Man-days
Year     Schemes   Distribution Canals Embankments Roads  Tanks  Involved
Metric tons  ---------- miles      …-Nos    million
1974/75    Not
available    31,991    1,901         871    2,376    -       11
1975/76     1,554       208,625    1,001        774       900    -       75
1976/77     2,328       222,557    1,674      1,906    1,078   326       80
1977/78     2,087       275,400    2,261      2,303    1,470   198       98
1978/79     2,493       300,792    2,594      2,780    2,476   317    107
(target)



- 14 -
The following table provides data relating to works financed under
the FFWP by WFP.
Table 3.2: Physical Achievements, Wheat Allocated and Man-days
Employed under FFWP
Since Inception Up to March 31, 1978
Major Schemes      Wheat   Quantum    Man-       Canals/Embank-    Tanks   Land &
Under-   Com-    Distri-   Earth        days     ments Renovated/  Reno-   Hyacinth
taken   pleted    buted    works   Involved    Constructed          vated   Clearing
Nos     Nos      Metric   Million    Nos            miles            Nos    Million
tons     c ft    Million                                   sq ft
1,307    711    249,161   4,429        92           6,447             271     1,497
Problems and Issues Involving FFWP
3.12      The quality of works carried out under FFWP has been inspected by
WFP evaluation missions, by the consultants employed by CIDA (paras 3.10,
4.12 and 5.04) and the IDA appraisal mission.  The consensus is that the
quality of work is satisfactory on average although there are deficiencies in
basic design and quality of works and that significant modifications are often
required for the schemes to perform satisfactorily.  More often than not the
quality and ultimate utility of the schemes constructed is hindered by the
inability of GOB to provide sufficient funds for the structures and other
materials needed in addition to the earthworks financed under FFWP. Thus
almost always there are no permanent structures such as sluice gates, regu-
lators, siphons and other control structures, culverts and bridges. Because of
the lack of culverts newly constructed roads block drainage ways; major canals
cut across major rights of way because of lack of bridges; and flood protection
embankments are only partially effective due to the lack of structures to
close major drainage ways and of sluices to control water levels. In short,
the very large investments made in earthworks have not been complemented
with investments in essential permanent structures. Until these are installed,
FFWP while successfully providing relief to the under-privileged, will have
failed, in the greater part, to create installations of long-term economic
value.  Indeed, in some cases, the partially completed scheme may have a
deleterious impact on production and farm incomes as a consequence of the
adverse effect of unfinished works on the local hydrology.
3.13      The project appraised in this report would help remove these de-
ficiencies by providing permanent structures of selected WDB managed schemes.
When fully equipped, such schemes would become technically and economically
viable.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
4.01       Since 1973 and the publication of its report -- The Land and Water
Resources Sector Study - Bangladesh (Report No. PS-13, December 1, 1972) --
the Bank has advocated that Bangladesh should better focus its investments
in the irrigation, drainage, and flood control sector by concentrating
on activities with an earlier impact on foodgrain production than the long-
gestation major flood control and drainage activities that traditionally had
formed the greater part of Government's programs. In pursuit of this objec-
tive, Government and the Bank undertook a joint review 1/ of the investment
program of WDB with a view to redirection of the Boards' development strategy.
One result of the review was the recommendation, accepted by GOB, that WDB
should increase significantly the share of its investments in small-scale
irrigation, drainage and flood control projects that are low in cost and that
will produce early benefits. In particular the review recommended concentra-
tion on completion of projects financed by WFP and other external donors.
Therefore, this project carries. out one of the major recommendations of the
joint review.
The Project Area
4.02       About two-thirds of Bangladesh would be subject to project actions.
It would be carried out throughout Bangladesh with the exception of the
Northwest Region. The needs of the excluded area are being met by the CIDA
financed project (para 3.10). An alternative to the wide project coverage
proposed would have been to concentrate project activities in a smaller area.
This alternative was rejected because a wider project area permits project
activities to be directed to subprojects of the highest priority regardless
of location. As discussed in Chapter V, the WDB field organization is rela-
tively strong and it should be able to undertake project responsibilities
with a minimum of adjustment, provided project works are not excessively
concentrated.
4.03       Other donors, for example, Sweden and Denmark, have indicated an
interest in financing similar projects that woull entail construction of com-
plete projects -- earthworks and structures -- many of which would be in the
water sector. Should such or similar projects enmerge and should WDB be the
principal agency involved, a reduction in the size of the IDA project area
could become necessary to prevent both the overlapping of projects entailing
different procedures and the overloading of individual WDB officers. During
1/   Joint Document of the Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank --
Review of Bangladesh Water Development Board, Report No. 2327-BD,
April 2, 1979.



- 16 
negotiations assurances were obtained that IDA would be informed in advance by
Government of any proposals to initiate such overlapping projects and that in
cases where WDB might be required to play a principal role Government would
agree with IDA, prior to initiation of any new project, on the measures to be
taken to avoid any negative impact on the IDA financed project.
4.04      Conditions in the project area reflect the general situation in the
agricultural sector that is described in Chapter II. It is considered that
the general level of support services for agriculture and the incentives
offered by Government pricing policies are adequate to ensure the economic
use of facilities constructed under the project and to generate the benefits
described in Chapters VI and VII.
The Project
General
4.05      The project would involve the completion, by the provision of per-
manent structures and improvement of earthworks as necessary, of selected
schemes or subprojects constructed under FFWP. Subprojects would be selected
upon the basis of criteria agreed between Government and IDA (para 4.09).
The project would not attempt to complete all FFWP schemes and, indeed, would
be concerned only with a relatively small proportion of them. Currently,
there are 1,565 FFWP schemes completed, or in progress, and the number is
increasing by about 250 each year. Of the existing 1,565 schemes, between
40% and 50% (600-800) are expected to require the installation of structures
and of these about 500 are in the project area. It is anticipated that the
project would involve the completion of about 100 high priority schemes
and the betterment of about 350,000 ac of agricultural land. It is assumed
that the project would be completed within a five-year period although W,DB
would be encouraged, consistent with its absorptive capacity, to expedite
the works in the interest of an early repeater operation. In many respects
the proposed project, and the CIDA project, can be viewed as pioneer opera-
tions under which labor intensive ways and means of complementing relief
and voluntary activities would be tested and developed.
4.06      The project would be managed by WDB (Chapter V).  The project would
also include the provision to WDB of equipment and vehicles needed for project
implementation, and the engagement of consultants to assist WDB in the selec-
tion of subprojects, and supervision of the design and construction of project
financed works. Equipment and vehicles (Annex 2, Table 3) would be provided
to WDB from IDA funding, however, the consultants and their required vehicles
would be financed and supplied by CIDA.
4.07      Subprojects constructed under FFWP with WDB direction vary con-
siderably in size, from quite small schemes benefitting potentially less
than 1,000 ac to schemes involving 20,000 to 30,000 ac. All subprojects
managed by WDB have, as their principal objective, the increase of agricul-
tural production through either flood protection, the prevention of salt
water intrusion, improved drainage, the provision-of irrigation water or



- 17 -
combinations of these. Increases in production are expected to stem from
a switch from low to higher yielding cultivation practices, for example from
broadcast aman to transplanted aman; from increase in cropping intensities
and from prevention of yield losses due to floods.
4.08      The cost of completing FFWP schemes is expected to vary widely
around an estimated average cost of about US$100 per ac benefitted. Because
of the large number, small size, and wide dispersal of subprojects, it would
be impractical for IDA to carry out individual subproject appraisals. Thus
responsibility for such appraisals would be entrusted to WDB assisted by
consultants (paras 4.12 and 5.07). However, documentation for the first
six subproject appraisals shall be submitted to IDA for review and approval.
IDA's prior approval of these six appraisals shall be a prerequisite for any
authorized construction for these or other subprojects to be funded under this
project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the plans for the
first six appraised subprojects would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1980 for
review and approval as a pre-requisite for subproject funding. Also during
negotiations guidelines for assembly of technical information and for prepara-
tion of appraisal of schemes (Annex 3) were agreed to.
Criteria for Subproject Selection
4.09      To qualify for project finance FFWP subprojects would have to meet
criteria to be agreed during negotiations. These criteria would ensure the
technical, economic and financial viability of the subprojects. Included in
the criteria would be requirements that subprojects:
(a) would be constructed under FFWP and had been designed
originally by WDB;
(b) would be subject of an up-to-date technical, economic
and financial appraisal by WDB and its consultants that
included evaluation of the soils and hydrology of the
subproject area;
(c) would benefit at least 1,000 ac and/or 500 farm families,
and that at least 70% of these families would operate,
as owners or tenants, total holdings of 3 ac or less;
(d) would cost not more than US$150 per acre to complete in
direct costs;
(e) would yield an economic rate of return of not less than
25% on project financed investments (excludes sunk cost);
(f) would be completed before December 31, 1984;
(g) would be operated and maintained under arrangements satis-
factory to IDA (para 5.10);



- 18 -
(h) would have no serious adverse environmental impact (in
this regard particular attention would be paid to the
potential effects of the project on fish production); and
(i) would be consistent with the program for improving WDB's
water sector planning organization and procedures described
in the Joint Document. 1/
4.10       To provide a further check on the viability of subprojects financed,
the WDB appraisal reports on subprojects involving total direct expenditures
in excess of US$700,000 and per acre cost in excess of US$150 would be subject
to review and approval by IDA.  Assurances were obtained that WDB would
appraise and select subprojects according to the agreed criteria and guide-
lines (paras 4.08 and 4.09) and that individual subprojects estimated to cost
in excess of US$700,000 and per acre cost in excess of US$150 would be subject
to the review and approval of IDA.
The Six Subprojects Examined During Appraisal
4.11       In order to appraise the project as a whole, six subprojects repre-
sentative of different types of schemes supported by FFWP were examined in
detail by the appraisal mission (Map IBRD 14291R). While the nature of these
six subprojects reflect the different conditions found typically on FFWP
schemes, three of them (para 4.11(a), (b) and (e)) are considerably larger
than the average subproject expected to be proposed for financing under this
project. The typical subproject is expected to benefit about 3,500 ac with
a cost of about US$350,000. The six subprojects are described in detail in
Annex 1 and are summarized below:
(a) Bhola Island (West) Embankment Scheme. This is a flood pro-
tection scheme. The embankment, on the west coast of Bhola
Island, is 28 mi long and benefits an area of 30,000 ac with
a population of about 100,000 or 16,000 families. The main
crop is aman paddy, giving yields of only about 0.4 tons/ac.
Some 18 drainage regulators with necessary closure earth-
works are required to make the scheme effective. Yields
are then expected to rise to at least 0.56 tons/ac without
the use of additional inputs. Cropping intensity is expected
to increase from about 103% to 110%. The total project cost,
per ac cost and per benefitted family cost would be US$2.8 M,
US$93 and US$175, respectively;
(b) Bhola Island (South) Reclamation Scheme. The scheme con-
sists of embankments and diversion channels to exclude
saline water from the sea. It would benefit about 32,000
ac and a population of some 100,000 people or 16,000
families. The main crop is paddy, giving low yields of
only abot 0.30 tons/ac. Three drainage regulators and
earthwork closures of two large channels are required to
complete the scheme. Yields would then increase to
1/   Joint Document on Review of WDB, op. cit.



- 19 -
about 0.4 tons/ac. Cropping intensity is expected to
increase by about 10% to 103%. The total project cost,
per ac cost and per benefitted family cost would be
US$1.14 M, US$36 and US$70, respectively;
(c) Nurania Khal Drainage Scheme. This small drainage scheme
benefits about 3,200 ac with a population of 6,500 or 1,600
families. Paddy yields are low and insecure from flooding.
One drainage regulator and two bridges are required to
complete the scheme. Yields would increase and cropping
intensity would rise from 115% to about 135%. The total
project cost, per ac cost and per benefitted family cost
would be US$0.27 M, US$84 and US$170, respectively;
(d) Harihar River Excavation Scheme. The River has silted up
for about 20 mi and lost its drainage capacity causing
serious flooding in the monsoon season. The benefitted area
would be 12,000 ac with a population of 30,000 people or
about 5,000 families.  Yields are low (about 0.35 tons/ac),
but sometimes there is complete crop loss. Five drainage
regulators, 13 bridges and some cross drainage is required
to complete the scheme after the river has been reexcavated.
Yields should rise and become secure and cropping intensity
increase from 90% to 105%. The total project cost, per ac
cost and per benefitted family cost would be US$1.13 M,
US$94 and US$226, recpectively;
(e) Sanir Haor Submersible Embankment Scheme. This is a sub-
mersible embankment scheme where the early flood is excluded
to enable the boro crop to be harvested, thereafter flooding
occurs. The scheme covers 14,000 ac with a population of
about 40,000 or 6,000 families, most of whom live on the
embankment. One drainage sluice is required to keep out the
early flood effectively. Yields are expected to rise from
about 0.5 tons/ac to 0.65 tons/ac and cropping intensity to
increase from 90% to 96%. The total project cost, per ac
cost and per benefitted family cost would be US$0.46 M,
US$33 and US$76, respectively; and
(f) Dhurung Khal Irrigation Scheme. This scheme benefits about
6,000 ac with a population of around 10,000 or 1,700 families.
Boro crop yields are only about 0.95 tons/ac. The main weir
requires replacing and all check structures need repairs to
make the scheme effective. Yields shDuld then rise to about
1.15 tons/ac and cropping intensity from 95% to 110%. The
total project cost, per ac cost and per benefitted family
cost would be US$1.31 M, US$220 and US$770, respectively.
Consultants
4.12      Consultants (North West Hydraulics Ltd., Canada) are already
employed by CIDA on identical works (paras 3.10 and 5.07). Currently, they
have a Technical Advisor, a Project Manager (Construction) and a Design/



- 20 -
Construction Engineer as their expatriate staff with local supporting staff.
Consultants would be employed on the project to advise WDB on subproject
selection in accordance with the criteria (para 4.09), to check designs and
to supervise construction of structures and earthwork improvements (Annex 5).
The team scheduled to be assigned to this project is:
Profession                                   Man-Months
Expatriates      Local
Project Manager (Planning Engineer) /a            45
Technical Advisor /a                               16
Design Engineer                                   48
Construction Engineer                             45             162 /b
Construction Engineer                             18              -
Agricultural Economist                              6             12
Sub-total                                   178 /c          174
Total man-month                                      352
/a Joint assignment with the CIDA project.
/b Involves three engineers (one per region) that would assist
in subproject identification, data assembly and appraisal
during non-construction seasons.
/c   Consultants assigned to CIDA project will initiate work on
this project upon signing agreement between GOB and CIDA
(scheduled by January 1, 1980) with Project Manager, Technical
Advisor, Design Engineer and Agricultural Economist scheduled
to be on the,project by March 31, 1980.
Project Implementation
4.13      Project implementation would take 4-1/2 years.  The first year would
be devoted to procurement of the required equipment and vehicles, appointment
of consultants, and appraisal of subprojects by WDB assisted by the consult-
ants. It is anticipated that the planning and the detailed design of permanent
structures and necessary earthwork improvements in the selected subprojects
could be commenced around January 1980 with the construction of subprojects
started in October 1980 and completion of the project by June 1984 (Annex 2,
Table 12). Should WDB be able to implement the project faster than now
envisaged this would be encouraged in order to permit consideration of a
repeater project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that design
and construction specifications would be satisfactory to IDA and that the
implementation schedule (Annex 2, Table 12) that calls for initiation of
construction on about 15 subprojects during the 1980/81 construction season
would be met. Assurances were obtained also that annual detailed programs
with budgets for the forthcoming year would be forwarded to IDA from March
1980 annually until project completion.



- 21 -
Project Costs
4.14       The cost of subproject completion, i.e., excluding earthworks costs
met under FFWP will vary considerably. A range of from US$50 per ac to about
US$200, with an average of around US$100 per ac is indicated. This cost range
has been established from experience gained under the CIDA project (para
3.10), and evaluation by the IDA appraisal mission of six typical subprojects
illustrative of the main types of work to be undertaken. The cost estimates
for these subprojects are detailed in Annex 1, Tables 8 through 13 and their
location shown on Map IBRD 14291R. On the basis of these costs and the CIDA
experience it is estimated that an amount of US$35 million (Tk 541 million
equivalent) would be sufficient to cover the direct costs of completing about
100 subprojects benefitting about 350,000 ac and related administrative and
engineering expenses, equipment and consultancy costs as shown in summary
below:
Table 4.1: Cost Estimates /a
Foreign
Item                  Local   Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
--- Tk million ----  --- US$ million ---         %
Permanent Structures and
Earthwork Improvements  232.5 /b 148.8  381.3  15.0    9.6   24.6    40
Equipment and Vehicles        -         9.3    9.3    -       0.6    0.6   100
Engineering and Admin.       34.1       4.6   38.7   2.2    0.3    2.5    10
Consultants and
Training /c                 4.7      37.2   41.9   0.3    2.4    2.7   100
Sub-total               271.3    199.9  471.2  17.5   12.9   30.4    40
Price Contingencies          49.6      21.7   71.3   3.2    1.4    4.6    30
Total Project Cost    320.9    221.6  542.5  20.7   14.3   35.0 /d 40
/a   Small discrepancies due to rounding.
/b   Includes Tk 0.8 M for land acquisition, when it is required.
/c   Includes US$50,000 for training.
7-7  Includes US$2.6 M equivalent in taxes and duties.
The foreign exchange component of project costs is estimated at US$14.6 mil-
lion or 40%, and taxes and duties included in project costs at US$2.6 million
or 7.5%. Cost estimates for imported vehicles and equipment are based on
unit prices in recent contract awards and on international prices. Costs
for consulting services are estimated at an average billing rate of US$8,800
per month and are based on recent experience in Bangladesh. Monitoring and
evaluation costs have been included in engineering and administration, which
are estimated at about 10% of the cost of permanent structures and earthwork
improvements. As the project has the nature of a line of credit, provision
for physical contingencies has not been made. Price contingencies are based
on an annual inflation rate of 10% in Bangladesh and 6% internationally.



- 22 -
Financing
4.15      An IDA credit of US$25 million is proposed that would cover 77% of
total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The credit would finance
100% of foreign exchange costs and about 60% of local costs. The balance
of project costs would be financed by a grant from CIDA 1/ of US$3 million
equivalent, and US$7 million (Tk 108.5 million equivalent) through GOB annual
budgetary appropriations. To ensure prompt provision of project funds, it
was agreed during negotiations that as a condition of credit effectiveness
would be that GOB had approved the Project Proforma 2/ and a copy had been
sent to IDA. An assurance was also obtained that WDB would send IDA promptly
upon their preparation, the draft Annual Development Program, relating to
this project.
Procurement
4.16      Civil Works (US$25 million including contingencies).  These works
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) because they
would comprise relatively small, simple, labor-intensive and scattered works.
In addition, construction would be subject to unseasonable weather and flood
interruptions. The work would be carried out under contracts let through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to IDA. Small steel
gates required for the many scattered drainage sluices, regulators and control
gates would be varied in height and width. They would be designed, ordered
and built in the course of appraisal and approval of each individual subproject.
As such orders could not be consolidated on any major scale and thus, would
not be suitable for ICB, they would be procured through LCB or Force Account,
whichever is the more economic and efficient at that time. WDB workshops are
capable of manufacturing such gates at competitive costs.
4.17.     Equipment, Vehicles, Spare Parts and Materials.  (US$1.3 M including
contingencies). These would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of cif price or the prevailing
custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. Small items of equipment costing less than US$100,000
for each contract, which are either urgently needed or are not suitable for
ICB, would be purchased through normal Government procedures, on the basis of
comparing prices from no less than three suppliers. Such purchases would be
limited to a total of US$300,000. After the project, the vehicles and equip-
ment would be used for maintenance or moved to other projects.
4.18      Documents for all civil works contracts, estimated to cost above
US$100,000 and documents for equipment and vehicles contracts estimated to
cost above US$100,000 would be sent to IDA for review before bids were invited
and later before award. All other contracts would be awarded in accordance
1/   CIDA's approval is in process.
2/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for
release of funds.



- 23 -
with normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA and a summary
of the bid evaluations with the contracts would be sent to IDA before disburse-
ment is sought.
Accounts and Audits
4.19      Assurances were be obtained during negotiations that WDB would
maintain the following accounts in connection with project expenditures:
(a) expenditures on vehicles and equipment purchased for
project use (WDB, HQ);
(b) expenditures on consultants (WDB, HQ);
(c) direct expenditures -- labor, materials, tools, services
and full-time supervision -- on each individual subproject
(appropriate WDB, EE); and
(d) direct expenditures on the force account construction of
structures, such as gates (appropriate WDB Workshop Super-
visor).
4.20      Assurances were also obtained that project accounts would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and that copies of the
audited accounts would be despatched to IDA within six months of the close of
each fiscal year.
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a) 90% of civil works expenditures;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and materials;
(c) 100% of local ex-factory expenditures for locally
manufactured equipment, vehicles, spare parts and
materials; and
(d) 70% of expenditures for other equipment, vehicles, spare
parts and materials procured locally.
Full documentation for all expenditures would be submitted to IDA in support
of withdrawal applications, except for force account where a statement of
work performed, certified by the consultant, would be forwarded to IDA.
Documents for force account expenditures would be retained by WDB for review
by IDA missions. All documents would have been checked and certified by the
consultants (paras 4.23 and 5.07).



24
Joint Project Revolving Fund
4.22      Inadequate counterpart funding by GOB constitutes a major constraint
inhibiting the successful implementation of a number of priority development
programs, including IDA assisted projects in Bangladesh. This constraint
is largely attributable to the country's low per capita income (estimated
at around US$90 in 1973-77) and extremely weak capital resource base often
resulting in severe cash flow problems. The effects of GOB's current finan-
cial constraints are pervasive and in spite of various efforts to improve
the present situation, Bangladesh has not been able to realize the full
benefit of the significant amounts in financial assistance currently being
made available by a number of external aid agencies.  There is, therefore, a
need to resort to some pre-financing of certain project expenditures on a
selective basis if the implementation of priority programs that are critical
to Bangladesh's overall long-term development are not to be unduly delayed.
IDA has used systems of advance financing in countries whose financial problems
are similar to those of Bangladesh. It is against this background that a
Project Revolving Fund (fund) to be funded as a condition of credit effective-
ness in an initial amount of Tk 8.55 M (US$500,000 by IDA and Tk 0.80 M by
GOB) is proposed. The proposed fund would be operated by WDB and maintained
in a commercial bank, which is satisfactory to IDA. The two amounts represent
the proportions of finance to be contributed by IDA and the Government to the
expenditures to be met by withdrawals from the fund. The fund would be used
to finance: (a) civil works expenditures--carried out by contract or (b)
purchase of equipment, vehicles, spare parts and construction materials
procured locally without ICB. It is for expenditures of these natures that
local currency financing is often difficult. Contracts for materials, vehicles
and equipment obtained through ICB, as well as force account work would not be
financed from the fund. Initial advances from the account would be made, as
necessary, and at the discretion of WDB, to officers designated responsible
for subproject implementation following the subproject appraisal and approval
procedures (paras 5.04 through 5.06). These officers would report monthly to
WDB on the use of these funds and support their statements of expenditure with
appropriate documentation--certified statements of expenditure, invoices,
contracts, etc. A consolidated return would be prepared by WDB and submitted
to IDA together with a reimbursement claim for IDA's share of expenditures
financed from the fund. The claim would be supported with evidence that
Government's share of these costs had already been paid into the fund.
Quarterly withdrawal applications for the replenishment of the revolving fund
would be accompanied by the usual documentation presently submitted by WDB
under the existing irrigation projects, and would be accompanied by monthly
statements of the revolving fund account prepared by the financial institution
in which the revolving fund account is opened. The monthly statements would
give the details of all withdrawals and deposits as well as the opening and
closing balances of the account. Documentation provided by project officers
to support their expenditure statements would be retained by WDB headquarters
and be made available to IDA supervision missions. Should any disbursements
be made from the revolving fund which are not acceptable to IDA, the Govern-
ment would deposit the corresponding amount in the fund account. Assurances
were obtained that the procedures for use of the revolving fund (Annex 4)
would be employed and a condition of credit effectiveness would be the estab-
lishment of the revolving fund in a commercial bank and initial deposit of



- 25 -
Tk 800,000 by GOB. Assurances were also obtained that GOB would employ an
independent auditor to annually audit the fund account, statements of expendi-
ture and supporting documentation, that the auditor would produce an annual
report, and that a copy of each report would be sent to IDA within six months
of the close of each fiscal year.
4.23      The establishment of a Project Revolving Fund along these lines
would involve risks. The operation of the fund would be closely monitored
during project implementation with a view to improving procedures as
may be necessary. Since IDA would be reviewing after the fact, the process
of securing GOB's replenishment of expenditures irregularly incurred may
prove difficult and time consuming. To minimize this risk, the consultants
would be required to check and certify documents requesting IDA's replenish-
ment of the revolving fund.
4.24      The estimated annual expenditures, proposed credit allocation and
the estimated schedule of disbursements are shown in Annex 2, Tables 4, 5
and 6. It is expected that the credit would be fully disbursed by June 30,
1985, i.e., about one year after project completion.
Environmental Impact
4.25      None of the subprojects financed under the project are expected
to have any significant impact on public health. In the case of soil fer-
tility, however, there is no doubt that flood control embankments eliminate
the benefits of the nutritional effect of silt deposits caused by annual
floods. It is considered, however, that on balance the damage of annual
flooding to homes, vegetable gardens, fowl and cattle is worse than the benefit
of the silt deposition which can be replaced by use of either chemical or
organic fertilizers. Disturbance to fish culture by bunds and embankments is a
potential hazard and would be specifically investigated and guarded against as
part of WDB subproject appraisal and execution (para 4.09(h)).



- 26 -
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization and Procedures
5.01      The project would be managed by the Water Development Board (WDB)o
WDB was established in 1972 as a semi-autonomous agency within the Ministry
of Power, Water Resources and Flood Control and is responsible for providing
surface water irrigation, drainage, flood control, erosion control, town
protection and river training throughout Bangladesh. WDB is managed by a
Chairman and five Board Members covering planning, implementation, supply
and services, finance and administration. Under their overall direction, day-
to-day management is provided by 11 Chief Engineers (CE), and approximately
50 Superintending Engineers (SE) and Directors. WDB has approximately 2,000
fully professional staff, mainly engineers, of whom 1,100 are in Dacca. Of
6,500 technical and accounting staff, approximately 4,000 are in the field.
Ten thousand employees are non-technical.
5.02      WDB manages five ongoing IDA financed projects in the irrigation,
drainage and flood control sector. As discussed in para 2.18 all these
projects have been subject to serious delays in implementation. By mid-1977
the extent of delays was such that IDA made strong representations to Gov-
ernment concerning the need to improve the efficiency of WDB. Since that
time Government has taken a number of positive actions aimed at streamlining
WDB's administrative procedures and improving its overall performance. A new
chairman of WDB has been appointed; there has been a greater delegation of
authority to project directors, thereby enabling them to function more effec-
tively; the WDB project portfolio has been reviewed with a view to eliminating
uneconomic projects; and criteria for the selection of future projects have
been agreed with IDA. There was a noticeable overall improvement in WDB's
performance in 1978 as an organization and it is hoped that further improve-
ments will result from the implementation of the recommendations of a joint
GOB/Bank Review Mission that completed an in-depth review of WDB and its
program earlier in 1979. 1/
5.03      WDB's technical performance in the implementation of its five IDA
assisted projects has improved significantly. Chandpur is virtually complete,
Barisal is slightly ahead of schedule, and Karnafuli started well but is slip-
ping behind schedule largely due to lack of local funds. The Muhuri Project
is plagued currently by an internal dispute within the principal contracting
company and other problems; and the Drainage and Flood Control Project is only
now beginning to get underway. Intermittent delays in project implementation
continue and increasingly these are attributable to a lack of adequate counter-
part funding by the Government. Inadequate Government funding has been a
problem common to many development projects and was recently the subject of
a special study by the Bank which is being used to improve funding alloca-
tion procedures. The proposed project revolving fund (para 4.22) should help
1/   Bangladesh:  Joint Document of the Government of Bangladesh and World
Bank-Review of Bangladesh Water Development Board. Report No. 2327-BD,
April 2, 1979.



- 2/ -
minimize this problem in the proposed project. Another weakness in WDB's opera-
tions has been the delays often experienced in its selection for the award and
subsequent administration of large contracts.  It is unlikely that this will be
an issue in the proposed project as the various works involved comprise small
simple structures which are only likely to be of interest to small local
contractors and, in some instances, would be undertaken on the basis of force
account.
5.04      Subprojects for completion would be proposed by WDB ZCE's acting
upon the advice of their SE's and EE's. There are four WDB Zones, three of
which encompass the project area. Before making his recommendations the ZCE
would consult with the appropriate District Commissioner in charge of Admin-
istration in the area involved. Submissions by ZCE would be reviewed by the
WDB Flood Control Cell (FCC), its Chief Engineer (CEFCC) and the consultants.
Following an initial review to establish the desirability of proceeding
further, which would be based largely on the original proposal prepared to
obtain FFWP assistance, the CEFCC would commission an appraisal of the sub-
project. This would be carried out by staff of the FCC, the consultants
and the Zone, who would work in close collaboration with the local admin-
istration, including Thana and union officials, in the case of the social and
organizational aspects of the subprojects. A short appraisal report would be
prepared. Final design of each subproject would be carried out by the Design
and Research Branch (DRB) of WDB in Dacca in the case of the more complex
subprojects; or by Zonal staff for approval by DRB in that of simpler sub-
projects. Following completion of the design work, cost estimates would be
updated and responsibility for execution would pass to the *appropriate ZCE.
Copies of the appraisal report, designs, and updated cost estimates (direct
costs including full-time supervision) would be sent to the Bank's Resident
Mission in Dacca for information except in the case of subprojects described
in para 4.10 for which approval of IDA would be required (Chart 20213).
5.05      CEFCC would be the principal IDA contact and responsible for cor-
respondence with IDA including the submission of quarterly progress reports.
These would include the status of subprojects - proposed, initially reviewed,
appraised, designed, approved, under implementation and completed. CEFCC
would also be responsible for the preparation of claims for reimbursement
under the IDA credit.
5.06      At the Zone, line responsibility runs from the ZCE to SEs and through
them to EEs. Each ZCE is responsible for 100 to 400 technical personnel and
numerous non-technical supporting staff. Typically, the SE's jurisdiction
encompasses a geographic area or a major project or both. The EEs have geo-
graphic responsibilities which may encompass parts of large projects or the
whole of small projects. The Zonal organization Ls well suited to the imple-
mentation of the project. Generally, WDB engineers are underemployed - a
situation confirmed by the joint GOB/Bank review. Consequently, there is
not a shortage of trained personnel for this type of project. EEs have
authority to accept tenders for work costing up to Tk 500,000 and supplies
up to Tk 200,000, make local purchases of survey equipment, construction
equipment components, spare parts, etc. up to Tk 1 million, and rent offices
and godown (stores) accommodation up to Tk 2,500/month. Commensurably greater
thresholdds of authority are delegated to SEs and CEs.



- 28 -
Consultants
5.07      As discussed in para 4.12, consultants, financed under a grant from
CIDA, 1/ would be employed to advise the CFCC in subproject selection, review
of planning and design, supervision of construction, and to certify contractor
payment certificates and force account statements as well as locally procured
vehicles and equipment invoices. CIDA would finance, on a grant basis, the
cost of 352 m/m (178 m/m expatriate and 174 m/m local) of consultant services
under the proposed project. Assurances were obtained that not later than
January 1, 1980, WDB would approve the consultant firm nominated by CIDA whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are satis-
factory to IDA.
5.08      Training.  To increase knowledge and experience of local staff,
the consultants would provide on-the-job training to WDB staff who would work
closely with them on subproject selection, planning, design and construction
supervision. Particular emphasis would be placed on improvement of quality
of simple construction methods, for instance, manual earthwork, compaction
of earthwork, and quality of concrete work. Also during negotiations, the
consultants Terms of Reference were agreed to and they are presented in
Annex 5.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
5.09      In common with many developing countries, Bangladesh has difficulty
in finding funds for the routine maintenance of the public infrastructure.
For the continued success of subprojects financed under the project, there-
fore, a large part of routine maintenance would have to be provided by project
beneficiaries themselves. Fortunately, most maintenance would involve the
input of labor to repair earthworks and to clean drains and canals. Labor
is not in short supply and local councils (local government units) would be
able to mobilize sufficient labor for maintenance on a voluntary basis or, at
worst, at less than market cost -- possibly through an extension of programs
such as FFWP to help meet the cost of maintenance or rehabilitation. The
balance of maintenance costs, repair and maintenance of structures, would be
met directly by WDB. The total costs of such maintenance at 1979 prices for
the 350,000 ac of subprojects to be completed under the project are estimated
at about US$300,000 annually. This is equivalent to less than half a percent
of WDB's current annual development budget.
5.10      Appropriate assumption of O&M responsibilities in Bangladesh by the
local councils has not as yet been achieved, therefore, the primary respons-
ibility for the operation and maintenance of the subprojects shall rest with
WDB. However, GOB plans to gradually transfer this responsibility to local
councils in accordance with its policies outlined in the Thana Irrigation Pro-
gramme (TIP) Manual. Since the subprojects are small and scattered, it would
be more efficient and desirable for the local beneficiaries, through local
councils, to operate and maintain these schemes. To encourage local councils
to assume this O&M program, WDB plans to give priority in the identification
1/   CIDA's approval is in process.



- 29 -
of subprojects to areas covered by local councils that indicate an interest
in assuming such responsibility and are also prepared to make necessary bud-
getary allocation for this purpose. If local councils are unable or unwilling
to satisfactorily operate and maintain the subprojects, WDB will cause the
subprojects to be properly operated and maintained with adequate funding to
be provided by GOB for this purpose. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that: (a) primary O&M responsibility for the subprojects would be
assigned to WDB and GOB would provide WDB with adequate funds, facilities
and services for this purpose; (b) GOB would take necessary steps in line with
TIP to gradually cause the local councils to assume the O&M responsibility
for the subprojects; (c) WDB would give priority for subproject implementation
to areas served by local councils willing and able to assume the O&M respons-
ibility by allocating the necessary budget and manpower to accomplish the
required tasks and (d) in case the local councils fail in these O&M respon-
sibility, GOB would cause WDB to operate and maintain the subproject facilities.
5.11      The GOB/Bank Review of WDB examined the problem of the implementa-
tion and O&M of WDB schemes and recommended the establishment of two internal
task forces to examine ways and means of improving the Board's implementation
capacity including, inter alia, relieving the Member, Implementation of O&M
responsibilities and establishing a new position of Member, O&M, with asso-
ciated staff arrangements. Terms of Reference for these task forces as agreed
to by the Joint GOB/World Bank Review Mission are presented in Annex 6. UNDP
has indicated an interest in financing technical assistance to support these
task forces. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that WDB would
establish these two internal task forces by January 31, 1980 and seek UNDP
technical assistance in carrying out the assignments of these task forces.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12      Monitoring of the project progress would be through quarterly and
annual progress reports prepared by the CEFCC. The reports would include
all relevant data on physical and financial progress of the project together
with reasons for deviations, if any, from targets.
5.13      Evaluation studies would be employed to estimate the direct and
indirect benefits resulting from the project as well as the socio-economic
impact on project beneficiaries. The data for evaluation would be obtained
through selected in-depth interviews in sample subproject areas as well as
through canvassing representative samples of project beneficiaries. Bench-
mark surveys would be conducted during the first year of construction in
these selected subproject areas to establish the pre-project situation. Two
follow-up surveys would be conducted after completion of the project works--
the first after one year and the second after four years. The surveys would
include information on cropping patterns, yields, cultivation practices,
production and employment levels, as well as income levels for the various
classes of project beneficiaries. The evaluation studies and surveys would
be undertaken by well qualified local consulting firms or research institu-
tions selected in consultation with IDA. Assurances were obtained that before
January 1, 1981 WDB would prepare and submit to IDA for concurrence a detailed
proposal for monitoring the project benefits and the evaluation of the project
impact. The progress reports and the data from benefit surveys and evaluation
studies and surveys would form, in part, the basis for preparation of the
Project Completion Report by WDB.



- 30 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      It is expected that the project will affect agricultural production
on about 350,000 ac. The protection from early flooding and salt water
intrusion and the reduction in flooding depths and durations resulting from
project works would permit more intensive land use and enable shifts from aus
and b. aman to t. aman and/or from local to high yielding varieties. Paddy is
expected to continue to dominate cropping patterns. There is, however, also
expected to be an increase in acreage under dry season crops, mainly wheat.
Subproject works would be particularly beneficial in areas which have gene-
rally lower elevation and hence are subject to more severe flooding.
6.02      In the six subprojects studied by the appraisal mission, cropping
patterns are expected to change as follows:
Table 6.1: Present (P) and Future (F) Cropping Patterns in the
Six Subproject Areas
Bhola        Bhola     Nurania   Harihar          Sanir    Dhurung
Crop           West        South        Khal      River         Haor      Khal
P      F    P      F      P    F      P     F      P     F    P    F
---------------------------- '000 ac ---------------------------
Aus           -      -      -     -   1.6  1.4   2.5   2.0    -        -    -    -
B. Aman      12.0   8.0  12.0  10.0   -    -    2.0   1.5    -         -   2.0  2.5
T. Aman      16.0  20.0  18.0  20.0  1.4  1.7   5.0   7.0    -         -    -    -
Boro          3.0   5.0    -    3.0  0.3  0.4    -        -   12.6  13.5  4.0  4.5
Wheat          -     -      -     -   0.2  0.6   0.3   1.0    -        -    -    -
Jute           -     -      -     -   0.2  0.2   1.2   1.2    -        -    -    -
Total
Cropped
Area    31.0  33.0  30.0  33.0  3.7  4.3  11.0  12.7  12.6  13.5  6.0  7.0
6.03      Crop yields in the six subproject areas are expected to increase
moderately due mainly to improved water regulation. However, without the
project, it is believed that farming conditions in subproject areas would
deteriorate due to flooding, congested drainage, saline water intrusion and
soil salinity build-up. Estimated present and future paddy yields (paddy
would constitute 90% of the cropped area), with and without the project,
in the six subprojects examined by the appraisal mission are presented in
Table 6.2:



- 31 -
Table 6.2: Paddy Yields in the Six Subproject Areas
Subproject               Yield (tons/ac) /a
P      W     W
Bhola, west              0.45   0.37  0.56
Bhola, south             0.45   0.37  0.56
Nurania khal             0.75   0.60  0.82
Harihar River            0.82   0.75  0.94
Sanir Hoar               0.52   0.45  0.64
Dhurung khal             0.94   0.84  1.12
/a   The yield of the principal paddy crop is
shown.  In five subprojects this is expected
to be t. aman and in Dhurung Khal boro. Detailed
information on yields, acreage and production for
each subproject area is in Annex 1, Tables 1-7.
6.04      In order to estimate present and future production levels in the
350,000 ac expected to be benefitted under the project, changes in cropping
patterns and yields expected in the Harihar River subproject have been ex-
trapolated. Although the Harihar River subproject is larger than the expected
typical FFWP subprojects, the nature of the works - river and khal excavation,
costs per ac, yield potential and farming systems reflect the situation of
the type of subproject most likely to be undertaken in the project. Expected
foodgrain production in present, future without and future with project situ-_
ation for the 350,000 ac is summarized in Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: Summary of Estimated Foodgrain Production
of the Project
P     W      W
-- '000 tons --
Paddy
Aus                        49    38       45
T. aman (local)            45    35       36
T. aman (HYV)             121    98      191
Sub-total               215   171      272
Wheat                       5    13       26
Total Grain             220   184      298
Marketing
6.05      The marketing system in Bangladesh is largely traditional.  Most
growers dispose of a portion of their crop before or immediately upon harvest
because of (a) need for cash; (b) inability to hold grain in storage;
(c) crop loan obligations; and (d) tenure crop division arrangements. Such
farmers often have to buy grain later at higher prices for family consumption.
Only 2-3 million tons of foodgrain, or about 20-25% of national production,



- 32 -
actually enter commercial markets, and private traders handle about 80%
of such trade. In a market of this size and giving a demand increasing at
about 3% per year, no problems are seen of absorbing the estimated project
increased production of 78,000 tons annually (from the present level).
Traders buy grain principally at primary daily and local weekly markets.
Farmer cooperatives have been officially encouraged to market paddy and
engage in rice milling but success has been limited. Government foodgrain
procurement programs in the past have often been resented by farmers, par-
ticularly when procurement prices have been below the free market level.
To rationalize the system, Government policy was re-oriented after FY75 to
emphasize incentive pricing for producers. The procurement program, however,
still needs improvement. The 585 procurement centers operating nationwide
are inadequate in numbers and capacity and farmers, therefore, often sell to
middlemen at lower prices to acquire needed cash or to avoid time-consuming
transactions at procurement centers. To circumvent the problem of procure-
ment center inaccessibility, GOB has initiated a scheme of contracting
private dealers to procure on its behalf. The results of this initiative have
yet to be observed. In absolute terms, Government procurement has remained
small, averaging about 3% of national production. Through the FY77 season,
Government procured only aman paddy and rice, but in FY78 it began to purchase
aus and boro paddy and rice at identical base support prices as for aman.
Since foodgrain production in FY79 is expected to be below FY78 levels (para
2.07), Government procurement probably would drop substantially during FY79.
The aman crop currently provides over 80% of domestic procurement, aus 10%,
and boro 6%. Although procurement centers operate in every district, greatest
success has come from surplus districts--Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajshahi,
Patuakhali, Mymensingh and Sylet.
Prices
6.06      Government provides guaranteed support prices for paddy and wheat,
the procurement price in FY79 for each being Tk 80 per md, with an additional
Tk 4 per md to cover transport to procurement centers. Because of an inade-
quate procurement price, weaknesses in the official procurement machinery,
inadequate storage capacity and poor timing of food aid shipments, the Govern-
ment was unable to procure sufficient quantities of foodgrain in FY79.
The procurement price must be reviewed continually to ensure adequate incen-
tives in light of rising input prices and Government's strategy to stimulate
agricultural production. Paddy prices used in the financial analysis in this
report represent FY79 average prices based on farmgate data.
6.07      Fertilizer and pesticide prices used in project analyses are at
current subsidized levels. Prices for other inputs such as animal and human
labor are based on prevailing market prices.
Incomes
6.08      The impact of the project on farm income was analyzed for the six
subprojects. Because of data scarcity on non-farm and other agricultural
income, only crop production activities have been taken into account in



- 33 -
estimating farm income. Specific cropping patterns, yields and input
requirements have been incorporated for each subproject but income has been
calculated only for the average farm size in each subproject. As shown in
Table 6.4, the project would have a pronounced impact on net farm incomes in
the subproject areas. Incremental income would vary by subproject and among
individual farmers, but, in general, would be in the range of 30 to 50% of
present level. Although the overall income distribution would remain essen-
tially unchanged, the project would substantially reduce the level of absolute
poverty in the subproject areas.
Table 6.4: Annual Net Farm Income Per Farm /a
for the Six Subprojects
Future
Subproject                  Present (P)       With Project (W)
Tk       US$            Tk        US$
Bhola Island, West                 4,125      265           6,345      410
Bhola Island, South                3,305      215           5,115      330
Nurania Khal                       9,300      600          12,210      790
Harihar River /b                   6,480      420           8,250      530
Sanir Haor                         4,600      295           6,640      430
Dhurung Khal                       6,370      410           8,660      560
/a   Includes remuneration for family labor.
/b   Income development at Harihar is expected to best reflect income
movements caused by the project (para 6.04).
Cost Recovery
6.09      It is not proposed to seek the direct recovery of project costs from
beneficiaries. Most subprojects would involve flood protection or drainage
works the costs of which, in Bangladesh, are traditionally not recovered from
the beneficiaries of publicly financed schemes. Government's rationale for
current policy is that:
(a) beneficiaries are poor, and while such drainage and flood
protection works result in increased agricultural produc-
tion and incomes, these increases are very modest - in
the case of the six subprojects estimated net increase
in per capita income would range from Tk 290 to 485 (about
US$19-30 equivalent) per annum;
(b) drainage and flood control works do not benefit all land
equally and within the area of a scheme, or subproject,
benefits vary considerably from one holding to another.
Any flat rate system would thus tend to be inequitable
and any equitable system of direct recovery so compli-
cated as to be impractical.



- 34 -
6.10      A more workable system would be a tax, reflecting the value of land,
and that would rise automatically with the implementation of betterment mea-
sures. However, land taxes were abolished in Bangladesh in 1971 and their
reintroduction is not foreseen. In practice, therefore, public investments
in flood control and drainage are made as subsidies to the rural sector. The
recovery of costs of such investments foregone, however, are a relatively
small component of the total subsidy provided for the agriculture sector
which is dominated by the subsidies on inputs such as fertilizer, seeds,
pesticides and irrigation water - these amount in total to about Tk 1,600
million (US$103 million equivalent) annually compared with an implicit subsidy
of Tk 200 million (US$13 million) for drainage and flood control. Government
is now taking steps to reduce the subsidies on inputs and irrigation and
indications are that unit subsidies will be reduced by 20-30% over the next
two years, but since input use is expected to rise this will not necessarily
reduce the total subsidy bill.



- 35 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The principal benefit of the project would be increased foodgrain
production, of which paddy is expected to amount to 90%. Consequently, the
project would reduce Bangladesh's needs for foodgrain imports that in recent
years have averaged 1.8 million tons annually. Through increasing foodgrain
production farm incomes would rise and employment opportunities would be
increased, mainly through increasing the demand for on-farm labor.
7.02      The estimated impact of the project, extrapolated from expected
development at the Harihar subproject, in terms of increased production,
benefitting families, and increased on-farm employment is summarized below:
Total benefitted area (ac)                         350,000
Total area gained (ac)                              14,000
Directly benefitting farm families                 130,000
Directly benefitting family members                725,000
Increased foodgrain production (tons)              114,000
Increased farm employment (man-days)             6,300,000
7.03      As discussed in Chapter VI, estimated increases in foodgrain pro-
duction would stem from both higher yields - a consequence of better water
control - and changes in cropping patterns and practices. In most cases these
would entail a switch from broadcast aman to transplanted aman. No increase
in production is assumed from the use of additional inputs, such as fertilizer.
In all project analyses it is assumed that the use of such purchased inputs
would remain constant in pre- and post-project conditions. This is a conser-
vative assumption since project works would create conditions suitable for
the increased use of fertilizer and other purchased inputs.
7.04      The increase in demand for on-farm labor would result from the
changes in cropping practices described in para 6.02 and illustrated in
Table 7.1, which shows the expected development in labor demand in the six
subprojects examined by the appraisal mission. On the basis of these figures
a probable increase in demand for labor on the 350,000 ac benefitted by the
project of 6.4 million mandays has been extrapolated.
Table 7.1: Increased Farm Labor Requirement for
the Six Subprojects
Annual Increased
Subproject                        Labor Requirement
('000 man-days)
Bhola Island, West                        954
Bhola Island, South                       689
Nurania Khal                               67
Harihar River                             221
Sanir Haor                                275
Dhurung Khal                               119



- 36 -
Distributive Impact
7.05      Since the major result of the project would be to increase the
productivity of land, to a large extent the distribution of direct benefits
would follow the land ownership pattern. In establishing the criteria for
the project, however, particular attention was paid to ensuring that small
farmers (para 4.09 (c)) would get a fair chance to benefit from the project.
Because of the land ownership patterns, the sharecropping and land tenurial
arrangements of Bangladesh, however, even though about two-thirds of the
intended beneficiaries would belong to the "target group", only about one-
third of the direct benefits are expected to accrue to that group.
Economic Justification
7.06      Assumptions.  Principal assumptions used in the economic analysis of
the six subprojects are the following:
(a)  Benefits.  The benefits of the six subprojects are based on
the projected incremental net farm income (Annex 2, Table 7).
Future yields and production used in the estimates of such
incomes are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1-7. Production
costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 7. Annual direct
benefits are shown in Annex 2, Table 8.
(b)  Prices.  Estimated future farmgate prices of internationally
traded commodities were based on the Bank's 1985 world market
price forecasts, expressed in 1978 currency values, with
appropriate adjustments for freight, handling, processing
and quality difference (Annex 2, Tables 9 and 10). An
exchange rate of Tk 15.5 to US$1 was used in the analysis.
(c)  Period of Analysis.  A twenty-five year period of operation
plus construction time has been used for each of the sub-
projects.
(d)  Investments and O&M Costs.  All investment costs, except
taxes and duties, are included in the economic analysis.
Annual O&M costs for project works and services are also
included in the investment costs.
(e)  Phasing of Development.  Construction of individual subproject
would be accomplished in one to three years depending upon
the extent and complexity of construction, but most would
be completed within one dry season (Table 7.2).



- 37 -
Table 7.2: Phasing of Benefits
Subprojects               Year       1    2    3    4    5    6    7   8-30
----------% of full development-------
Bhola Island, West                     0    0    0   15   40   70   90   100
Bhola Island, South                    0    0   15   40   70   90  100   100
Nurania Khal                           0   50   90  100  100  100  100   100
Harihar River                          0   00   25   70   95  100  100   100
Sanir Haor                            0   50   90  100  100  100  100   100
Dhurung Khal                           0    0   25   70   95  100  100   100
The estimated costs and benefit streams for the six subprojects are given in
Annex 2, Table 12.
(f)  Yield Decline.  It is assumed that without the project,
conditions and yields in subproject areas would deteriorate
and that overall subproject production would decrease by
about 15% due to decreases in cropped area as well as
decrease in crop yields.
(g) Labor Costs are estimated at between Tk 4 and Tk 8 per
day depending on the time of year in which the labor
would be required.
(h) Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return (ERR)
has been computed separately for each of the six subprojects,
using future economic costs and future economic benefits.
Sunk costs, that is the cost of existing embankments, etc.
built under FFWP, have also been computed and employed in
an analysis for each subproject that takes account of such
sunk costs. The ERR for the six subprojects range from 19%
to 126% when no account is taken of sunk costs and from 14%
to 78% when such costs are taken into account. Individual
economic rates of return for the six subprojects are sum-
marized in Table 7.3. Of the six subprojects examined,
it was the view of the appraisal mission that Harihar River
subproject was the most representative, in terms of type
and nature, of what is perceived to be a typical subproject.
Extrapolating costs and benefits from the Harihar River sub-
project to the 350,000 ac expected to be the subject of
project actions indicated an overall ERR for the project of
about 35%. Further substantiating this estimate is the
criteria for selecting subprojects (para 4.09) that requires
a 25% ERR on project financed investments, which should
result in an ERR for the project greater than 25%.



- 38 -
Table 7.3 Economic Rate of Return of the Six Subprojects
Subproject                     Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Excluding         Including
Sunk Cost         Sunk Cost
Bhola Island, West /a              26               14
Bhola Island, South                59               28
Nurania Khal                       78               56
Harihar River                      36               23
Sanir Haor                        126               78
Dhurung Khal /a                    19               17
/a  These two subprojects would not qualify under the
criteria, para 4.09(e). Their economic viability
would be re-examined by WDB and their consultants
before their final exclusion from the project.
Sensitivity and Risk
7.07      Sensitivity tests indicate that the six subprojects remain viable
under a variety of adverse assumptions concerning cost and benefits. The
impact of some adverse assumptions on the ERR for the subprojects median is
shown in Table 7.4.
Table 7.4: Sensitivity Analysis
Alternatives                             Rate of Return (%)
a)  Basic Case, subprojects median                                35
b)  A decrease of 30% in project benefits (equivalent
to without a yield decline in the "without project"
situation)                                                  26
c)  An increase of 20% in project costs                           31
d)  A decrease of 20% in project benefits                         30
e)  (c) and (d) combined                                          26
f)  Benefits delayed one year                                     21
g)  Useful life reduced to 15 years                               34
7.08      Little risk is attached to the arrangement proposed for choosing,
designing and constructing subprojects. As discussed in Chapter V the field
service of WDB is well staffed and many of its engineers under-employed. At
headquarters WDB would be assisted by consultants who, additionally, would take
part in field supervision. The major risk to the project is that arrangements
for the O&M of subprojects will be unsatisfactory.  It is believed that the
arrangements briefly described for O&M in this report will be satisfactory but
it will be necessary for both Government and IDA to pay particular attention
to it in the course of project implementation.



- 39 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a)  IDA would be informed in advance of any proposals to
initiate overlapping projects and that in cases where WDB
might be required to play a principal role, GOB would agree
with IDA on measures to be taken to avoid any negative
effect on the IDA-financed project (para 4.03);
(b)  WDB would submit by June 30, 1980 the plans for the first
six appraised subprojects for IDA's review and approval
with such approval of these six appraisals being a pre-
requisite for authorized construction for these or other
sub-projects to be funded by this project (para 4.08);
(c)  WDB would select subprojects according to the agreed
IDA criteria and that individual subprojects estimated
to cost in excess of US$700,000 and per acre cost in excess
of US$150 would be reviewed and approved by IDA (para
4.10). In addition, the guidelines for assembly of tech-
nical information and for preparation of appraisal were
agreed to (Annex 3);
(d)  design and construction specifications would be satis-
factory to IDA (para 4.13);
(e)  annual detailed programs with budgets would be forwarded
to IDA from March 1980 annually until project completion
(para 4.13); and that the implementation schedule (Annex
2, Table 12) that calls for initiation of construction
of about 15 subprojects during the 1980/81 construction
season would be met (para. 4.13);
(f)  WDB would send to IDA promptly upon preparation the draft
Annual Development Program, relating to this project (para
4.15);
(g)  WDB would maintain the following accounts:
(i)  expenditures on vehicles and equipment purchased
for project use (WDB, HQ);
(ii) direct expenditures--labor, materials, tools,
services and full-time supervision--on each indi-
vidual subproject (as appropriate WDB, EE); and
(iii) direct expenditures on the force account con-
struction of structures, such as gates (appro-
priate WDB Workshop Supervisor) (para 4.19);



- 40 -
(h)  project accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA and copies of the audited report
would be despatched to IDA within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (para 4.20);
(i)  (i)  detailed procedures for the operation of the project
revolving fund account would be as agreed by Govern-
ment and IDA (Annex 4);
(ii) the project revolving fund account would be opened by
WDB; and
(iii) Government would employ an independent auditor to annually
audit the fund account expenditures and documentation
(para 4.22).
(j)  not later than January 1, 1980, WDB would approve the consul-
tant firm nominated by CIDA whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions were satisfactory to IDA (para 5.07)
and in accordance with agreed terms of reference for the
consultants (Annex 5);
(k)  (i)  WDB would be responsible for O&M and GOB would provide
adequate funding, facilities and services;
(ii) GOB would gradually shift the O&M responsibility to
local councils;
(iii) WDB would give priority for subproject implementation
to areas served by local councils willing and
able to assume O&M responsibility; and
(iv) If local' councils fail in their O&M responsibilities,
GOB would cause WDB to operate and maintain the sub-
projects facilities (para 5.10).
(1)  WDB would establish the two internal task forces on organiza-
tion and implementation by January 31, 1980 in accordance with
agreed terms of reference (Annex 6) and make a request for
UNDP's technical assistance in carrying out these assignments
(para 5.11); and
(m)  WDB would prepare and submit to IDA for concurrence, before
January 1, 1981, a detailed proposal for monitoring the
project benefits and the evaluation of project impact (para
5.13).
8.02       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:  (i) the Project
Proforma (PP) had been approved by GOB; (ii) a copy of the PP had been sent
to IDA (para 4.15); and (iii) GOB had established the revolving fund in a
commercial bank and deposited TK 800,000 (para 4.22).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$25 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be the Government of Bangladesh.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SMALL-SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
The Six Subproject Areas Examined During Appraisal
A.   Bhola Island (West), Bakarganj District
1.        The subproject area is located on the west coast of Bhola Island.
The embankment constructed under FFWP and the Coastal Embankment Program in
1977/78 is 28 mi long. The subproject would benefit an area of around
30,000 ac with a population of some 100,000 comprising about 16,000 families.
2.        Gaps in the newly constructed embankment have been left open both
at the intersections of khals and at low-lying spots, partly to drain off
the excess rainwater but mainly because there are no funds for the necessary
drainage regulators. The expected multiple function of the embankment - tidal
flood protection, soil-salinity control, drainage improvements and cyclone
surges limitation - cannot be achieved without the construction of the neces-
sary sluices and closures. Farmers are thus threatened by floods or poor
drainage which cause crop losses every year.
3.        The main crops, at present, are broadcast aman (12,000 ac), trans-
planted aman (16,000 ac) and wherever limited irrigation by low-lift pumps
(LLP) is available, boro paddy (3,000 ac). In the dry season, a small acreage
of chilli and pulses is also planted. Since most farmers have no assured
harvests, almost no production inputs (fertilizer, pesticides, etc) are even
applied to the fields and average yields are low. The aman paddy yields are
10-12 md/ac (0.37 - 0.45 tons/ac) which lag behind the 1977/78 national
average of 14.2 md/ac (0.52 tons/ac). The current cropping intensity of the
area is 103% and its annual paddy production is around 15,000 tons.
4.        With improved flood control, drainage and other water regulating
measures throughout the project, the planting of low yielding broadcast aman
would decrease, farmers would cultivate more HYV t. aman and boro paddy in
areas where more water could be retained for irrigation. Under the cultural
practices adopted by farmers at present, the yields would increase by around
25% and the cropping intensity from 103% to 110%, which would boost the
annual paddy production to about 22,300 tons, 49% more than the present
(Annex 1, Table 1). The estimated cost would be Tk 43.4 M (US$2.9 M equiva-
lent) or Tk 88.9 M if sunk costs were included (Annex 1, Table 8).
5.        The economic rate of return would be 26% and if sunk costs were
included, it would be 14%.
41



ANNEX 1
Page 2
B.   Bhola Island (South), Bakarganj District
1.        The subject is situated at the southern end of Bhola Island.  The
benefitted area would be about 32,000 ac, with a population of some 100,000
consisting of about 16,000 families.
2.        Since both the embankment and the diversion channels are incomplete
(FFWP would support these earthworks in 1979/80), and since there are no
closures at the mouths of the two main rivers or at the main khals, the whole
area is suffering from monsoon-caused floods, drainage congestion and soil
salinity by tidal inundation from the Bay of Bengal.
3.        Currently, farmers have trouble growing paddy in the monsoon season
and the yields are low, the average being 8-12 md/ac (0.30-0.45 tons/ac).
Furthermore, the salinity build-up in the soil makes cultivation in the dry
season more difficult. Although no survey data on either chemical or physical
properties of the soil is available, during appraisal a white layer was
covering most of the fields in the area. Farmers report that crop yields
are decreasing year by year. The situation will become worse if no proper
action is taken for flood protection and for soil improvement.
4.        Building closures at the mouths of rivers and khals and completing
the earthworks would ensure farmers good crop production. Protection against
flood and salinity instrusion, and improved drainage would increase the acre-
age of HYV t. aman in the monsoon season. Rainfall with drainage would
gradually leach the salt from the soil. Water retained in rivers or khals
during the dry season would irrigate (by LLP) more land for boro paddy and
other dryland crops. Therefore, the annual paddy production in the subproject
area at full development would rise to about 18,200 tons, which represents
more than 56% over present production and 136% over future production without
project improvement (Annex 1, Table 9). In addition, as soil salinity declined,
the growing pulses, chillies and vegetables would become feasible in the dry
season. The estimated cost would be Tk 17.6 M (US$1.2 M equivalent) or
Tk 43.6 M if sunk costs were included (Annex 1, Table 9).
5.        The economic rate of return would be 59% and if sunk costs were
included it would be 28%.
C.   Nurania Khal, Jessore District
1.        The subproject area is in the south of Jessore district, southwest
of Jessore town. Topographically, the area lies below the level of the sur-
rounding countryside. The subproject would cover 3,200 ac with a population
around 6,500 or 1,600 families.
2.        Monsoon floods and poor drainage are the two main threats to farming
in the area. The timing and duration of the floods combined have a signifi-
cant effect on crop production. The aus crop yield can be as high as 30 md/ac
(1.12 tons/ac) if the monsoon is timely, and if it can be harvested by the end
42



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of July before the flood comes. If the floods come early, the yield drops
to below 10 md/ac (0.37 tons/ac) and if the paddy plants are submerged conti-
nuously for over seven days, the entire crop is lost. The floods and drainage
congestion also have adverse effects on the aman paddy crop and lower its
yield to less than 10 md/ac. These setbacks, in fact, come quite frequently
and farming in the area is without any assurance of success at present.
3.        To improve this situation, the excavation of a 1.75 mi long khal
from Betagra to Nurina is being undertaken with FFWP support to drain off
the excess water. Upon completion of the earthworks in June 1979, and after
installing one regulator and constructing two bridges on the newly excavated
khal as proposed in the project, drainage would be improved. This improve-
ment would bring confidence to farmers in their farming practices and would
eventually raise crop yields. In addition, more water would be retained in
the khal during the dry season to irrigate (by LLP) more boro paddy, wheat and
vegetables. The annual foodgrain production at full development is projected
at around 3,900 tons, which would be more than 36% over the present production
and 72% over the future production without improvements (Annex 1, Table 3).
The estimated cost would be Tk 4.25 M (US$0.27 M equivalent) or Tk 5.5 M if
sunk costs were included (Annex 1, Table 10).
5.        The economic rate of return would be 78% and if sunk costs were
included it would be 56%.
D.   Harihar River, Jessore District
1.        The subproject area is east of Jessore town with the Harihar River
flowing through it. It would benefit 12,000 ac with a population of around
30,000 consisting of about 5,000 families.
2.        The Harihar River has silted up and has lost its drainage capacity,
causing serious problems during the monsoon season. Farmers are suffering
from uncertainties about their crop production. If the flood comes early in
May and stays until August or September, both aus and aman paddy crops are
badly affected, resulting in poor yields (less than 10 md/ac or 0.37 tons/ac).
Sometimes there is even a total crop loss. When the floods arrive late in
July and water depth remains below 2 ft, the average yields for aus could
be about 18 md/ac (0.67 tons/ac) and for transplanted aman, 22 md/ac (0.82
tons/ac). Maximum yields for both crops could reach 35-40 md/ac (1.3 to
1.5 tons/ac).
3.        A plan for re-excavation of the Harihar Liver over 19.5 mi in the
project area has been approved by the FFWP in 1978/79. To make the scheme
effective, five regulators and thirteen bridges would be constructed along
the river upon the completion of the re-excavation. With the improvement
farmers would be in less danger of crop failures. Moreover, it would not
only solve the drainage problem and raise the crop yields but would also
preserve more water in the khals during the dry season for irrigating boro
paddy, wheat and other dryland crops to increase the cropping intensity.
43



ANNEX 1
Page 4
4.        The total annual foodgrain production at full development is esti-
mated at about 10,250 tons, which indicates an increase of 37% over the
current production, 7,440 tons, and 61% over future production without any
improvements, 6,350 tons. The changes in yields, planting acreages and pro-
duction under the project are given in Annex 1, Table 4. The estimated cost
would be Tk 17.5 M (US$1.14 M equivalent) or Tk 28.1 M if sunk costs were
included (Annex 1, Table 11).
5.        The economic rate of return would be 36% and if sunk costs were
included it would be 23%.
1/
E.   Sanir Haorr  Sylet District
1.        Sanir Haor is situated in the northwest of Sylet District and lies
beside the mountainous Indian border. It covers an area of 14,000 ac with a
population of around 40,000 consisting some 6,000 families, and most of whom
are living in dwellings built on the embankment.
2.        Since the northwestern part of Sylet District is close to mountains
and has many rivers and plenty of rainfall (150-200 inches annually), usually
the floods come early in mid-April and continue until October affecting the
whole area. Therefore, farming in this area is restricted to within embank-
ments and is possible only during the period from the time of flood is reced-
ing in October to the arrival of the next flood in April; it extends for five
or six months and only permits a single crop.
3.        The existing embankment was built for protection against the early
floods to ensure the harvest of the boro crop paddy (the flood will submerge
the embankment later) and to preserve enough water in dry season for irriga-
tion. Since no permanent structures have been installed in the embankment
and openings are still left for drainage use, its full function cannot be
achieved at present. The production of the single boro paddy crop is un-
reliable. The average yield may reach 14 md/ac (0.52 tons/ac) for local
varieties and 30 md/ac (1.12 tons/ac) for HYV when irrigation is available
by LLP in the dry season. Sometimes, the yields would drop by more than 50%
and at other times farmers would lose the entire crop.
4.         Constructing a drainage sluice in the embankment as proposed in this
subproject would improve the existing distressed conditions. The successful
protection against early flood in the haor would give boro paddy crop enough
time to mature fully for harvest; its yield would rise by 20-30% and the
planted acreage would also increase. Thus, the construction of one single
structure would have a major beneficial effect on the area. The annual total
paddy production would increase to around 11,000 tons which represent a 48%
increase over the present production, 7,400 tons (Annex 1, Table 5). The
estimated cost would be Tk 7.1 M (US$0.46 M) or Tk 10 M if sunk costs were
included (Annex 1, Table 12).
1/   Haor, a Bengali word, means an area enclosed by embankment.
44



ANNEX 1
Page 5
5.        The economic rate of return would be 126% and if sunk costs were
included it would be 78%.
F.   Dhurung Khal, Chittagong District
1.        The subproject area is situated to the north of Chittagong city,
east of the Halda River and near Karnafuli Irrigation Project. It covers
6,400 ac with a population around 10,000 or 1,700 families.
2.        With FFWP assistance, the upstream section of the silted old course
of the Dhurung Khal, used as an irrigation canal, was re-excavated and the
embankment on the river upstream of the weir was repaird. Due, however, to
the poor condition of the check structures, the irrigation is not fully
effective. The 100 ft weir is also in bad condition and needs replacing.
The water supply is thus inefficient during the critical demand stage of the
boro crop and yields are only around 25 md/ac or 0.94 tons/ac.
3.        With the replacement of the weir and repair of the regulators as
proposed in this subproject, both drainage in the monsoon season and water
retaining capacity in the dry season would be improved. Paddy yields would
subsequently rise by about 20%. The annual total paddy production of the
area would reach 6,440 tons at the full development, an increase of 38%
over the present production (Annex 1, Table 6). The estimated cost would
be Tk 20.3 M (US$1.31 M) equivalent) or Tk 22.2 M if sunk costs were included
(Annex 1, Table 13).
4.        The economic rate of return would be 19% and if sunk costs were
included it would be 17%.
45



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Present and Future Yield, Production and Cropping Intensity1'
Subproject: Bhola Island West, Barisal
Benefitted Area ( 30,000 ac)
Present (P)                Future Without Project(W)        Future With Project (W)
Crop                              Area    Yield   Prod.          Area    Yield       Prod.       Area    Yield    Prod.
(ac)   (tons/ac) (tons)         (ac)  (tons/ac)   (tons)        (ac)  (tons/ac)  (tons)
B. Aman                         12,000    0.37   4,440         11,000    0.30       3,300        8,000   0.45       3,600
(10)                          (8)                             (12)
T. Aman                         16,000    0.45.  7,200         14,000    0.37       5,180       20,000   0.56    11,200
(12)                          (10)                            (15)
Boro                             3,000    1.12   3,360          3,000    1.05       3.150        5,000   1.50       7,500
(30)                          (28)                  -         (40)
Total                  31,000           15,000        28,000             11,630        33,000            22,300
Cropping Intensity        103                             93                              110.
1/
-   Yield figures in parentheses are maunds per acre; 26.8 maunds   1 metric ton.
5' 



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Present and Future Yield, Production and Cropping Intensity
Subproject: Bhola Island South, Barisal
Benefitted Area 32,000 ac
Present (P)               Future Without Project(W)    Future With Project (W)
Crop                            Area    Yield   Prod.         Area    Yield      Prod.       Area    Yield    Prod.
(ac)   (tons/ac) (tons)       (ac)  (tons/ac)   (tons)       (ac)  (tons/ac)  (tons)
B. Aman                        12,000    0.30    3,600      10,000    0.22      2,200       10,000     0.37   3,700
(8)                          (6)                              (10)
T. Aman                        18,000    0.45    8,100      15,000    0.37      5,550       20,000     0.56  11,200
(12)                         (10)                            (15)
Boro                              -        -        -          -         -         -         3,000      1.12   3,-360
-           _______             _ _ _ _ _   _______    (30)
Total                  30,000           11,700      25,000              7,750       33,000            182260
Cropping Intensity        94                           78                              103
IF3 
M
4'- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Present and Future Yield, Production and Cropping Intensity
Subproject: Nurania Khal Excavation. Jessore
Benefitted Area (3,200 ac)
Present (P)                Future Without Project(W)    Future With Project (W)
Crop                             Area    Yield   Prod.          Area    Yield       Prod.       Area    Yield    Prod.
(ac)   (tons/ac) (tons)        (ac)  (tons/ac)   (tons)        (ac)  (tons/ac)  (tons)
Aus                             1,600      0.75   1,200        1,300      0.60       780       1,400      0.82      1,148
(20)                           (16)                            (22)
T. Aman                         1,400      0.90   1,260        1,200      0.71       852       1,700      1.00      1,700
(24)                           (19)                            (27)
Boro                              300      1.12      336          300     1.12       336         400      1.20        480
(30)                           (30)                            (32)
Wheat                             200      0.56      112          400     0.75       300         600      0.94        564
(15)                           (20)                       .   (25)
Total Grain             3,500             2,908        3,200               2,268       4,100               3,892
Jute                              200      0.94      188          200     0.94       188         200      0.94        188
(25)                           (25)                            (25)
Total Crop              3,700                          3,400                           4,300
Cropping Intensity %    115                              106                             134
(D >
Go



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Present and Future Yield, Production and Cropping Intensity
Subproject: Harihar River Re-excavation, Jessore
Benefitted Area (12,000 ac)
Present (P)               Future Without Project(W)    Future With Project (W)
Crop                            Area    Yield   Prod.         Area    Yield       Prod.       Area    Yield    Prod.
(ac)   (tons/ac) (tons)        (ac)  (tons/ac)   (tons)       (ac)  (tons/ac)  (tons)
Aus                           2,500       0.67   1,675        2,200    0.60       1,320      2,000       0.75    1,500
(18)                         (16)                             (20)
B. Aman                       2,000       0.75   1,500        1,800    0.67       1,206      1,500       0.82    1,230
(20)                         (18)                             (22)
T. Aman                       5,000       0.82   4,100        4,500    0.75       3,375      7,000       0.94    6,580
(22)                         (20)                             (25)
Wheat                           300       0.56     168          600    0.75          450     1,000       0.94      940
(15)                         (20)                        ,    (25)
Total Grain              9,800              7,443        9,100               6,351    11,500               10,250
Jute                          1,200       0.94   1,128        1,200    0.94       1.128      1,200       0.94    1,128
_______      (25)                         (25)                             (25)
Total Crop              11,000                          10,300                         12,700
Cropping Intensity %        92                              86                            106
-  .
rJ M



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Present and Future Yield, Production and Cropping Intensityl'
Subproject: Sanir Haor Embankment, Sylet
Benefitted Area (14,000 ac)
Crop                                      Present (P)                   Future Without Projec()             Future With Prolect (W)
Boro  Area     Yield   Prod.            Area      Yield       Prod.         Area      Yield      Prod.
Boro                                (a      (to/a)  (sac)   (tons/ac)    (tons)                            (ac)   (tons/ac)   (tons)
Local Varieties                      11,200       0.52    5,824        10,000      0.45       4,500        10,700      0.64      6,848
(14)                             (12)                                (17)
HYV                                   1,400       1.12    1,568         1,400      1.00       1,400         2,800      1.50      4,200
_______      (30)   ____              400     (27)      5_900                      (40)
Total                    12,600                7,392       11,400                  5,900        13,500               11,048
Cropping Intensity            90                                81                                   96
Ul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
Lfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v 
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{ 



BANGLADESII
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Present and Future Yield, Production and Cropping Intensity!'
Subproject:  Dhurung Khal, Chittagong
Benefitted Area (6,400 ac)
Present (P)               Future Without Project(W)    Future With Project (W)
Crop                            Area    Yield   Prod.          Area    Yield      Prod.       Area    Yield    Prod.
(ac)   (tons/ac) (tons)        (ac)  (tons/ac)   (tons)       (ac)  (tons/ac)  (tons)
Aman                            2,000    0.45       900        1,800    0.37         666      2,500    0.56      1,400
(12)                          (10)                           (15)
Boro                            4,000    0.94   3,760          4,000    0.84      3,760       4,500    1.12      5,040
(25)                          (25)                           (30)
Total                    6,000            4,660         5,800              4,426       7,000              6,440
Cropping Intensity          94                             91                            109
I3 
(D >
Un



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Foodgrain Production in the Subproiect Areas
Present (P)                  Future Without Proiect (W)                          Future With Prolect (I)
Cropping 1/                       Cropping                 Decreased             Cropping                Increased    w over
Subpro1ect and Benefitted Area    Acreage   Intensitvy  Production   Acreage  Intensity  Production    % to P        Acreage  Intensity  Production    .        W
.ac               ac          %          tons        ac      - Z           tons                     ac        %           tons
Bhola Island, West (30,000)         31,000       103       15,000      28,000      93         11,630        29         33,000     110        22,300       49     92
Bhola Island, South (32,000)       30,000         94      11,700       25,000      78          7,750        33         33,000     103        18,260       56    136
Nuriana Khal, Jessore (3,200)        3,500       115        2,910       3,200     106          2,270        22          4,100     134         3,890       35     72
Harihar River, Jessore (12,000)      9,800        92        7,440       9,100      86          6,350        15         11,500     106        10,250       38      61
Sanir daor, Sylet (14,000)         12,600         90        7,390      11,400      81          5,900        20         13,500      96        11,050       49     87
Dhurung Rhal, Chittagong (6,400)    6,000         94       4,660        5,800      91          4,430          3         7,000     109         6,440       38     46
1/ Including all crops other than foodgrain crops.
Ul ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Is



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Bhola West Embankment Scheme
Cost Estimate
Item                                           Local      T & DI'   Foreign    Total         % f.e.V
----------------------Tk '000---------------------
A. Project Costs
Civil Works:
8 regulators, 3 and 4 vent @ Tk 1,800,000        6,900      1,700        5,800     14,400         40
10 regulators, 1 vent @ Tk 700,000                3,200        800        3,000       7,000        40
Closures and related earthworks improvements
improvements  LS3/                          8,000        -            -        8,000          -
Sub-total            18,100     2,500        8,800      29,400         30
Engineering and Administration
WDB engineering and administration - 10%          2,650        50          300       3,000        10
Consultants' share of cost - 5%                    100        -          1,400      1,500         90
Sub-total             2,750         50       1,700       4,500
Total Base Cost      20,850      2,550      10,500      33,900         30
Physical Contingencies 15%                       2,950        450        1,600      5,000         30
Price Contingencies, 10%, then 8%                2,600        400        1,500      4,500         30
Total Project Cost  26,400      32400       13,600      43,400         30
B.  Sunk Costs
Land Acquisition - land provided at no cost           -          -            -           -
Earthwork
110 M cu ft @ Tk 375/1,000 cu ft                   39,000        -          2,250     41,250          5
Administration and overhead 10%                      4,000       -            250       4,250         5
Total Sunk Cost      432000        -         22500      45,500          5
1/  T & D = Taxes and duties.                                                                                    XX
2/  % f.e. = Percentage Foreign Exchange.                                                                        00
LS = Lump sum.



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Bhola South Reclamation Scheme
Cost Estimate
Item                                               Local      T & D      Foreign    Total    % f.e.
…----------------    Tk '000…
A. Project Costs
Civil Works
2 regulators, 10 vent @ Tk 4,000,000                        3,900        900         3,200      8,000       40
1 regulators, 1 vent @ Tk 700,000                              300       100           300        700       40
Improvements to earthworks       LS                         3,300         -            -        3,300       -
Sub-total               7,500      1,000         3,500    12,000       30
Engineering and Administration
WDB engineering and administration - 10%                     1,100         -            100     1,200       10
Consultants share - 5%                                          50        -            550        600       90
Sub-total               1,150         -            650      1,800
Total Base Cost         8,650      1,000         4,150    13,800        30
Physical Contingencies 15%                                   1,320        150           600     2,070       30
Price Contingencies, 10%, then 8%                            1,130        100           500     1,730       30
Total Project Cost    11,100       1,250         5,250    17,600        30
B.  Sunk Costs
Land Acquisition - land provided at no cost                    -           -            -          -
Excavation
Earthwork closures 55 M cu ft @ Tk 375/1,000 cu ft          19,600         -           1,050   20,650        5
Channel connections   LS                                     2,000         -            -       2,000        -
Materials for closures LS                                      500         -                      500        -
Administration and overhead 10%                              2,750         -             100    2,850        -
Total Sunk Cost        24,850         -           1,150   26,000         5
D >4
in                                                                                                                     £ x



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE ANF FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Excavation of Nurania Khal Scheme
Cost Estimate
Item                                                Local      T & D      Foreign      Total      % f.e.
---------------------Tk '000…-------------------
A.  Project Cost
Civil Works
1 bridge 80 ft span       LS                                  300        100          300         700         40
1 bridge 70 ft span       LS                                  250         50          200         500         40
1 regulator, 4 vent       LS                                  900        200          700       1,800         40
Sub-total               1,450        350        1,200       3,000         40
Engineering and Administration
WDB engineering and administration - 10%                      270         -            30         300         10
Consultants' share - 5%                                       -           -           150         150        100
Sub-total                  270        -           180         450
Total Base Cost          1,720        350       1,380       3,450          30
Physical Contingcnies - 15%                                  250         50          200         500         40
Price Contingencies - 10%                                    150         30          120         300         40
Total Project Cost       2,120       430        1,700       4,250         40
B.  Sunk Costs
Land Acquisition
10 ac @ Tk 15,000                                             150         -            -          150
Excavation
5.0 M cu ft @ Tk 20011,000 cu ft                              950         -            50       1,000          5
Administration and overhead 10%                               100         -            -          100         _
Total Sunk Costs         1,200         -            50      1,250           5
(D >C
Ln
Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Harihar River Re-excavation Scheme
Cost Estimate
Item                                         Local     T & D      Foreign      Total       % f.e.
----------------------Tk'000-----------------------
A. Project Costs
Civil Works
13 bridges, span 80 ft to 120 ft      LS          .  3,200         800      2,500         6,500         40
5 regulators, one and two vent        LS              2,100        550      1,800         4,450         40
Cross drainage                                          780        100        220         1,100         20
Sub-total                    6,080     1,450       4,520        12,050        40
Engineering and Administration
WDB engineering and administration - 10%              1,080        -           120        1,200         10
Consultants' share - 5%                                  50        -          550           600         90
Sub-total                    1,130       -           670         1,800
Total Base Cost              7,210     1,450       5,190        13,850
Physical Contingencies - 15%                          1,080        200        820         2,100         40
Price Contingencies - 10%, then 8%                      800        150         650        1,600         40
Total Project Cost           9,090     1,800       6,660        17,550         40
B. Sunk Costs
Land Acquisition (given free)                           -          -           -             -           -
Excavation
43 M cu ft @ Tk 220/1,000 cu ft                       9,000        -          460         9,460          5
Administration and overhead, 10%                      1,000        -            40        1,040          -
Total Sunk Costs           -10,000                   500        10,500          5
a U,
0X



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Sanir Haor Submersible Embankment Scheme
Cost Estimate
Item                                              Local      T & D      Foreign       Total         % f.e.
… ------   '000 - ---------------------
A.  Project Costs
Civil Works
1 regulator, 8 vent        LS                              1,900         500       1,600        4,000          30
Embankment and drainage improvements  LS                   1,000         -            -         1,000          -
Sub-total              -       2,900        500        1,600        5,000          30
Engineering and Administration
WDB engineering and administration - 10%                     450         -            50           500         10
Consultants' share - 5%                                       25        -            225          250          90
Sub-total                        475        -            275          750
Total Base Cost                3,375         500       1,875        5,750
Physical Contingencies - 15%                                 500          50         300          850          30
Price Contingencies - 10%, then 8%                           300          50         150          500          30
Total Project Cost             4,175         600       2,325        7,100
B. Sunk Costs
Land Acquisition
40 ac @ Tk 10,000/ac                                         400         -           -            400
Excavation - embankment & drains
6.4 M cu ft @ Tk 375/1,000 cu ft                           2,275        -            125        2,400           5
Administration and overhead 10%                              225         -            25          250           5
Total Sunk Cost                2,900        _            150        3,050
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
Ln                                                                                                                           FX
s-Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Dhurung Khal Irrigation Scheme
Cost Estimate
Item                                        Local       T & D     Foreign       Total    % f.e.
…- - - - -- - - - -Tk    '000…-- - - - -- - - - - -
A.  Project Cost
Civil Works
Replacement of 100 ft weir                             4,800       1,200      4,000        10,000      40
Reconstruction of 7 No. check structures
@ Tk 500,000                                    1,600         400       1,500         3,500     40
Canal Improvements    LS                                 500         -          -             500      -
Sub-total                   6,900       1,600       5,500       14,000      40
Engineering and Administration
WDB engineering and administration - 10%               1,260         -          140         1,400      10
Consultants' share - 5%                                   50         -          650           700      90
Sub-total                   1,310         -           790         2,100
Total Base Cost             8,210       1,600       6,290        16,100     40
Physical Contingencies    - 15%                        1,100         300      1,000         2,400      40
Price Contingencies - 10% and 8%                         900         200        700         1800       40
Total Project Cost         10,210       2,100       7,990        20,300     40
B.  Sunk Costs
Land Acquisition                                         -           -          _             _         _
30 ac @ Tk 10,000                                        300         -          -             300       -
Excavation                                                                                              5
6.5 M cu ft @ Tk 220/1,000 cu ft                       1,350         -           50         1,400       5
Administration and overhead - 10%                        150         -          -             150       -
Total Sunk Cost             1,800         -            50         15
_                                 (D~~~~~~~~~~~~ >4
-n



BANGLADESH
SHALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Climatic Data 1i
Items       Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.         M       June    July    Aug.        Sept.      Oct.      Nov.    Dec.       Total
Rainfall (in)
Jessore          0.39    0.18    1.50    2.04         3.58   11.63   12.52   12.12    11.24          4.04      0.95    0.62       60.81
Khulna           0.38    0.66    2.82    2.47         6.27   12.41   14.13   14.32         9.40      4.10      2.40    1.21       70.57
Serajgani       0.19    0.59    1.41    3.37          5.94   11.07   16.00   12.29    11.39          3.90      0.51    0.12       66.78
Bogra            0.42    0.45    1.47    2.10         4.20   14.95   16.34   12.95    10.19          3,16      0.67    0.20       67.10
Chittagong       0.40    0.80    2.20    4.50    10.40   22.30   25.40   22.70    12.6               8.70      1.50    0.60    112.10
Barisal          0.60    0.60    1.50    3.30         7.60   16.90   17.00   16.80    11.70          8.50      1.20    0.20       86.00
Temperature (F )
maximum
Jessore         83         92     98      104         104    97       93       93         95         94       90       84         -
Khulna          86         93    100      103         103    97        95       94        97         96       92       88         -
Seraiganj       82         90     99      103         102    97       94       94        96          93       91       85         -
Bogra           81        89      99      104         104    97       93       94         94         92       88       84         -
Chittagong      89         91     96        96         98    94       99       92         94         95       92       88         -
Barisal         87         93    102      106         101   104        99      99         94         93       99       89         -
minimum
Jessore          45        47      50       65         67    73        73       74        73         68       65       47         -
Khulna          49   -   47        56       69         71    72        74       74        75         70       62       52         -
Serajganj       47        50      57       64          70    71       74       73        74          67       60       48         -
Bogra           46        48      55        66         67    73       74       75        73          68       58       48         -
Chittagong       57       48       58       63         65    70       73       71         72         69       57       50         -
Barisal         45        46       55       60         65    70       65       72        62          65       54       47         -
Humidity (M)
Jessore          78        70      70       70         75    86       87       86         86         82       78       77         -
.Kbulna          69        68      71       76         75    86        87       87        84         81       74       72
Serajganj       75        67       66      72          78    87       87       89        86          81       79       80         -
Bogra            78        65      61       68         76    87       86       87        86          81       78       77
Chittagong       67       65       67       72         76    84       85       85        84          81       72       71         _
Barisal          76       74       74       74         74    83       87       85        83          79       75       78         _
1/  Average for 10-year period, 1965-74 inclusive for selected stations except for rainfall in Chittagong & Barisal which
is a 30-year average.
tD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Lfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Land Area, Populations and Farm Size/
Island       Island
Unit    Bangladesh   Bhola/South   Bhola/Weet   Nurania Khal   Harihar River   Shanir Haor  Dhurung
Ex.          Re-Ex.         Embankment   Irrigaeton
Land
Gross Area (ac)        '000     35,280.0         50.0       -  50.0           8.0            30.0            15.4          n.a.
Benefitted Area
Before_Development
(ac) W             '000     19,400.0         30.0           28.0           3.0           11.5            13.4           5.8
After Development
(ac) W             '000        __            32.0           30.0           3.2           12.0            1.4.0          6.4
Popdlation
Rural                  '000     77,000          100           100             7              30              40           11
Rural People/sq mi
of Benifitted area  Number      2,540       2,130           2000          2000           1,600          1,870         1,100
Rural Labor Force      '000     16,000           34            36            36               9              11            n.ae.
Average Size house-
hold               Number          5.8          5.0           5,0           6.0             6.0             7.0          6.0
Farm Laborers/
Household          Number          n.a.         1.7           1,7           1.8             1.8             1.9          1.8
Rural People/ac
Benefitted Land    Number          4.0          2.9           2.9           3.2             2.4             3.4          n.a.
Rural Laborer/ac
Benefitted Land    Number          0.8         1.1            1.2           1.1             1.3             1.2
Average Size of Farm    acre           2.8          2.8           2,5           3.0             2.5             3.0          3.2
1, Data have been taken from several different sources and therefore may not  be completely compatible.
n.a. Not available                                                                                                      z 3
--   Not applicable
0



ANNEX 2
Table 3
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Equipment and Vehicles
Four-wheel drive vehicles 20G/ @ US$7,500                  US$150,000
Concrete Mixers (10/7) 50 @ US$3,000                          150,000
Vibrators 100 @ US$350                                         35,000
Pumps and Fittings (1 cusec) 50 @ US$1,000                     50,000
14' Speed boats and 40 h.p. outboard motors
20 @ US$3,500                                                70,000
Hand compactors 100 @ US$200                                   20,000
Miscellaneous Equipment                                        25,000
Spares and parts (20%)                                        lOO,OOO
TOTAL                           600,000
1/   Six for consultants to be financed and procured by CIDA.
61



ANNEX 2
Table 4
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                  Fiscal Year
Item                          Cost      1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
-----------      Tk Million------
Permanent Structures                381.3     -        45.3   110.0   115.0   111.0
Equipment and Vehicles                9.3     3.3       6.0     -       -        -
Engineering & Administration         38.7     3.5       9.4     9.8     9.5      6.5
Consultants                         41.9      3.2     10.5    10.5      9.5      8.2
471.2    10.0      71.2   130.3   134.0   125.7
Price Contingencies                  71.3     1.0     10.7    18.5    21.1    20.0
542.5    11.0     81.9   148.8   155.1   145.7
62



ANNEX 2
Table 5
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
% of
Amount Allocated           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent         To be Financed
(US$M)
(1)  Civil Works                        21.8                 90% of local
(including materials)                                   expenditures
(2)  Equipment, Vehicles,                0.7
spare parts and
materials (excluding
materials financed
under category (1)
(a)  directly imported                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally manufactured                               100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory
(c)  Other procurement                                  70% of expenditures.
(3)  Unallocated                         2.5
TOTAL                    25.0
63



ANNEX 2
Table 6
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estfimted Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
Disbursements            Disbursements
----US$ Million--------…
January - June 1980                         0.5                        0.5
July - December 1980                        1.0                        1.5
January - June 1981                          2.0                       3.5
July - December 1981                         2.0                       5.5
January - June 1982                          3.5                       9.0
July - December 1982                         3.5                      12.5
January - June 1983                         4.0                       16.5
July - December 1983                        4.0                       20.5
January - June 1984                          3.0                      23.5
July - December 1984                        1.0                       24.5
January - June 1985                         0.5                       25.0
64



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Farm Budget Summaries
Dhurung
Bhola Island West   Bhola Island South         Nuriana Khal      Harihar River.Jessore  Sanir Haor. Sylet    Rhal_ Chittagong
A. Land.Use - Cropped Area                 p     W       w      p        W      w       p              w      pW                     P           W       P         W  W
Aus                                  -     -       -      -        -       -     1.5    1.2    1.3    0.6       0.S   0,5      -     -      -      -     -       -
B. aman                            1.2   1.0    0.8      1.2      1.0    1.0      -      -       -     0.5      0.4   0.4      -     -     -      0.9   0.9      -
T. aman - local                    1.6   1.5    2.0      1.8      1.5    2,0    1.3    1.1    1.6    1.4        1.3   1.8    2.4   2.1   2.3       .            1.2
T. aman - HYV                        -     -       -      -        -      -       -      -       -      -        -     -      0.3   0.3   0.6      -     -       -
Boro                              0.3   0.3    0.5        -        -     0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4       -        -     -      -      -     -      1.9   1.8    2.1
Subtotal                    3.1   2.8    3.3       3.0     2.5    3.3    3.1    2.6    3.3    2.5        2.2   2.7    2.7   2.4   2.9    2.8   2.7    3.3
-Other Crop:
Wheat                                -                                           0.2    0.4    0.6      -       0.1   0.2      -     -      -      -     -       -
Jute                                 -     -       -      -        -      -      0.2    0.2    0.2    0.3       0.3   0.3      -     -      -      -     -       -
Total Cropped Area  (ac)    *1 28           3.3      3.0       .     3.3    3.7.   3.2    4.1    2.8       Z.6      j    LI   LA   LI    2.8   2.7    3.3
Net Cultivated Area(ac)       3.0   3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0       3.0   3.0    3.0   3.0   3.0    3.0   3.0    3.0
Cropping Intensity %          103    93    110       100      83    110    115    106    137    93           86   106     90    81    96       93    90    110
B. Gross Farm Income         Tk         4,800 3,720  7,200  3,840   1,520  5,880  9,960  7,920  13,200  7,080  6,000 9,120  5,160  3,960 7,560 7,080 6,480  9,720
C. Farm Production  Costs   Tk
Seed                                298   298    363    298       298    363    298    298    363       298    298   363    298    298   363   298   298    363
Fertilizer and Plant Protettion    -       -       -      -        -      -       -      -        -      -       -     -       -      -    -       -     -       -
Bullock depreciation                162   162    204    162       162    204    162    162       204    162    162   204    162    162   204   162   162    204
Hired Labor                         120    80    144      -        -      80      -      -       160     -       -    120      -      -    200   110   170    300
Miscellaneous                        96    74    144      77       50    118    199    158       264    142    120   182    103       79   151   142   130    194
Total Costs                    66Z  614    8        *37       510    765    659    618       991    602    580   869    563    539   918   712   760  1.061
D. Net Farm Income           Tk         4,124 3,106  6,345  3,303   1,010  5,115  9,301  7,302  12,209  6,478  5,420 8,251  4,597  3,421 6,642 6,368 5,720  8,659
-    Includes remuneration for family labor.
Ln



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONW  OL PROJECT
Annual Direct Benefits With Full Development
Bhola Island       Bhola Island    Nuriana Khail Harlhar River        Shanir Khal       ChittR
Item                   West (30,000 ac)  South (32,000 ac)   (3,200 -ac) Jessore(12,000 ac) Sylet (14,000 ac) (6,W4O0a
Gross Farm Income
p                              2,942               2,502             643           1,722               1,475               925
W                              2,280               1,642             510           1,471               1,132               847
W                              4,413               3,831             852           2,236               2,160             1,270
Gross Farm Expenses
P                                414                  350             43             148                 161                93
w                                376                  332             40             142                  154
W                                583                  498             64             213                  262              i39
I/
Net Farm Income-
P                              2,528               2,152             645           1,581               1,314               832
W                              1,904                1,310            471           1,329                  977              747
W                              3,830                3,333            788           2,023               1,898             1,131
Incremental Net Farm Income          1,926                2,023             317            694                  921              384
Incremental Farm Family Labor
Opportunity Cost                    372                  220              25              69                  78               30
Annual Direct Benefits               1,554                1,803             292             625                 843              354
'Includes remuneration for family labor.
oN



ANNEX 2
Table 9
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Prices for Financial and Economic Analyses 1/
Financial Price    Economic Price2/
Crop (Tk/md)
Paddy
Aman                                          80                     125
Aus                                           75                     115
Boro                                          75                    115
Wheat                                            80                     125
Jute                                             90                     120
Fertilizers (Tk/md)
Urea                                             70                     125
TSP                                              55                     145
MP                                               45                      85
Other Inputs
HYV Paddy Seeds (Tk/md)-/                       100                     150
Animal Labor (Tk/pair/day)                       12                       94
Farm Labor (Tk/manday)                           10                     4-8 -
1/ At constant 1978 price levels.
2/ See Table 10          for derivation of economic prices for inter-
nationally traded goods.
3/ For local varieties same as crop prices.
4/ Tk 4/man-day during slack months of Jan., Feb., May,June, Sept. and Oct.
Tk 6/man-day during moderately busy months of April, July, Aug. and Dse.
Tk 8/man-day during peak months of March and Nov.
67



ANNEX 2
Table 10
BaNGASH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Price of Inter-a-tian-ally TrddConsuodities
for Economic Analysis
ComoditY
Oil
Item                            Rice      Wheat     Jute      Seeds      Urea     TSP      MP
1. Projected 1985 World Market
Price (US$/ton)l/ 3/       410         174     364        615       203      171      76
2. Adjustmnuts for Quality           3/        4J
Differentials (1)         65-704        90-'   100        100       100      100    100
3. Projocted Price Adjusted
for Quality (US$/ton)    266-287       157     364        615       203      171      76
4. Shipping costs to/from                                                   5/
Chittagong (US$/ton)        25          40     -           30        lo-       30     30
5. FOB/CIF Chittagong Price
(US$/ton)                 291-31.    197       364        645      213       201    106
6. Handling and rransport        40          35      -50        40       -20        20     20
Cost Between the Port
and the Wholesale Market/
Main Godowns (US$/ton)7/
7. Price Ex-Godowns
(US$/ton)                 331-352      232     314        685      193       221    126
8. Processing, Handling           -156/    -l10/   -50         -50        30        35     25
and Transport Costs
Between the Wholesale
Market/Godowu and the
Farm Gate (US$/ton)7/
9. Farm Gate Price (US$/ton)  316-337       222      264       635       223       256    151
10. Processing RAtio (Z)            65      100       80       100       100       100    100
11. Farm Gate Price Adjusted
for Processing Losses
(US$/ton) (paddy)         205-219      222     211        635      223       256    151
12. (Tk/md) 8/ (paddy)         115-125      125      120       355       125       145     85
1/ Source: LIED Price Forecasts dated May 1978. The forecasts are in 1978 constant dollars.
2/ Pricing Basis: Rice       Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok.
Wheat     Canadian No.1 Western Red Spring, ex-'btore Thunder Bay.
Jute    ' Bangladesh white D.FOB Chittagong.
Oilseeds: Mustard seed, cif Europe.
Urea    : Bagged, FOB Europe.
TSP     :Bulk, FOB US Gulf.
MP      : Bulk, FOB Vancouver.
3/ For 25-35% broken. Larger discount for boro and aus crops which are of poorer quality
than the amen crop.
4/ Partially reflects strong consumer preference for rice in Bangladesh.
5/ Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because of proximity to markets in
South Asia would command a price advantage over European suppliers.
6/ Rural areas deficit in foodgrains; most will be marketed in villages and consumed locally.    68
7/ Assuming a SCF of 0.75 for ton-traded goods and services.
8/ Rounded.



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams of the Six Typical Subprojects
Bhola                         Harihar River    Sanir Khal         Dhurung Khal
Bhola Island West    Island South    Nurania Khal           Jessore          Sylet          Chittagong
Year                 Benefit      Cost    Benefit   Cost   Benefit   Cost  Benefit   Cost   Benefit   Cost   Benefit        Cost
--------------------------------------------------us$ 000-
Sunk Cost                          2,936             1,677               81              677                197                119
1                     0           839       0       490       0      274      0       484        0      458       0         645
2                     0           994       0       645    146         7      0       516      422        13      0         665
3                     0           968     270        56    263              156        34      759       13      89          28
4                   223           115     721        56    292              438        34      8 3        13    248          28
5                   622                 1,262        56    292              563                                 336
6                 1,088                 1,623                               625                                 3 4
7                 1,400                 1,803         ,                       l
8                 1a554                   v                  ,         \ ,             ' /       14
30                 1,554           115   1,803        56   29 2         7    62'5       34      843       13    354           28
Rate of Return, %
Including Sunk Cost                14                  28                56                23               78                  17
Excluding Sunk Cost                26                  59                78                36              126                  19
Capital Cost (US$/ac)"/
Including Sunk Cost                184                 85               102               140               44                 202
Excluding Sunk Cost                 86                 33                77                84               30                 183
Net Incremental Income (US$/ac)    52                  56                91                52               60                  55
I-  >C
1/  Excluding taxes and duties.



BANGLAD~ESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1979                    1980                           1981                  1982                  1983                  1984
Ist  2nd  3rd  4th   lst  2nd  3rd  4th   1st  2nd  3rd  4th   1at  2nd  3rd  4th-
Item                         O ND   J  FM          AM   J JASO0N             D    Qt  Qt   Qt   Qt    Qt   Qt  Qt  ot    Qt   Qt   Qt   Qt    Qt   Qt  at   Qt
1. Consultants                                 1/    2/
(1)  Recruitment                  __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _
(2) Service
2. Approval Proj. Proforma____
3. Selection Sutbprojects                 _______________________________________________
4. Field Survey of Selected                              a!                                b/                    cI                   d
Subproject                                                                                                                         T
a/                           h/                   cI                   dI
5. Appraisal Subprojects                                       ek
6. Final Design of Subproject 
7. Procurement of Equipment
& Vehicles                            ___________________________________
8.  Subproject  Construction                                                 ___________                                    ____________
9. Operation & Maintenance
Establishing WDB's                _____
internal task forces
a/b                                                ci                  d
10. Submitting Annual Program                   ______________________________________
& Budget
11. Monitoring & Evaluation
(1)  Proposal  Prepara--_________________
tion
(2) Executing_____________________________________________
12. Preparation of 2nd Phase
Project
l/ Approval of CIDA nominated consulting firm by GOB
~/Fielding of CIDA consulting team (minimum of Project Manager, Technical Advisor, Design Engineer,
Construction Engineers and Agricultural Economist).
Completion of Activities for:
a!  1980/81  Construction program (15 subprojects)                  bi  1981/82 Construction program (25 subprojects)
c/  1982/83  Construction program (in subprojects)                  d   1983/84 Construction program (30 subprojects)
I/ Submitting six sample subprojects to IDA for approval



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Guidelines for Assembly of Technical Information
and Preparation of Appraisal of Scheme
General Information
Because of the large number, small size, and wide dispersal of the
proposed drainage and flood control schemes (to be called hereinafter sub-
projects), appraisals will be carried out by WDB assisted by consultants.
However, documentation for the first six subproject appraisals shall be sub-
mitted to IDA for review and approval as a prerequisite for authorized con-
struction for these or other subprojects to be funded under this project.
In addition, WDB appraisal reports on subprojects with total direct expendi-
tures in excess of US$700,000 or per acre cost in excess of US$150 would be
subject to the review and approval by IDA.
Guidelines below are to be used by WDB, with assistance of the con-
sultants, in the assembly of technical data and preparation of appraisals for
the Food for Work Program (FFWP) subprojects which WDB includes in this Small
Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project. Each subproject must be prepared
separately, with an appraisal (economic evaluation) on each.
The size and complexity of the subprojects vary from a beneficial
area of about 1,000 ac with a cost of less than US$100,000 to relatively
larger a benefitted area over 25,000 ac and costing several million dollars.
Consequently, the detail of the data collection and appraisal preparation
will vary considerably on each subproject. Therefore, the following should
be viewed as guidelines and used as appropriate and prudent.
Basic Criteria for Selection of Subprojects
To qualify for project finance, FFWP subprojects would have to meet
the following criteria. These criteria would ensure the technical and eco-
nomic viability of the subprojects. The appraisals must indicate if the
subproject meets the following criteria:
(a)  would be constructed under FFWP and had been designed
originally by WDB;
(b) would be subject of an up-to-date technical and economic
appraisal by WDB and its consultants that included eval-
uation of the hydrology and soils of the subproject area;
71



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) would benefit at least 1,000 ac and/or 500 farm families
and that at least 70% of these families would operate, as
owners or tenants, buildings of 3 ac or less.
(d) would cost not more than US$150 per acre to complete in
direct costs;
(e) would yield an economic rate of return of not less than 25%
on projects financed investment (not to include sunk costs);
(f)  would be completed before December 31, 1984;
(g) would be operated and maintained under arrangements satis-
factory to IDA;
(h) would cause no serious adverse environmental impact (in this
regard particular attention would be paid to the potential
effects of the project on fish production); and
(i) would be consistent with the program for improving WDB's
water sector planning organization and procedures described
in the "Joint Document on the Review of BWDB" April 2, 1979.
General Description of Subproject
The following descriptive information would be shown in each
appraisal report:
1.   Location of subproject ........................
2.   Type:  Irrigation .............. Drainage .
Flood Control ..................... Other (Describe) .
3.   Benefitted Areas:  Gross ..... ...... ac.  Net ......   ac.
(Explain what kind of benefits; for example the areas are
presently grown to single crop of paddy; the flood embank-
ment protects 10,000 ac and 40,000 inhabitants, etc.);
4.   Benefitted People:  Population .........., Number of Farm
Units ................, Average Size Farm ............... ac.
Farms Under 3 ac .......... % Owner and Operator ........ % (ac)
Owner/Tenants .......... % (ac)  Tenants ......... % (ac).
5.   Present Problems or Conditions:  Describe the nature of
problems.
6.   Proposed Solutions:  Describe plan of development.  (Indicate
physical features; for example, construction of a flood con-
trol embankment about 10 ft high, 5 miles long around the
area and re-excavate drain to a depth of 8 ft and width of
50 ft approximately 2 miles long. A regulator will be built
in the drainage channel where it intersects the embankment,
etc.).                                                               72



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.   Expected Results of Development:  Describe qualitatively the
extent of improvement expected. For example, approximately
1,200 acres of farm land will be protected from annual flood,
etc.
8.   Is the scheme self-contained (independent) or a part of a large
project? (If part of larger project, briefly explain nature
of larger project including physical works, status of comple-
tion, responsible agency, financial data, etc.).
9.   Estimated life of subproject ....... years.
Agricultural Data
The following data and information relating to agriculture will be
shown:
1.   Soils Information (attach soils map if available).
Major Soil Type ........... Topography .
(slope) ...................
2.   Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production.
a.   Without Project
Crops              Area        Yield         Total Production
Aus ...........  ac .Mds/Ac ....                                Mds
Aman .......... ac             .      .. Mds/Ac ....            Mds
Boro.ac  ............ Mds/Ac ....                               Mds
T. Boro               ac..          .      ds/Ac ............ Mds
Wheat                 ac. ......... Mds/Ac ....                 Mds
Jute  .........       ac    .Mds/Ac  .... Mds
Sugarcane .....       ac .Mds/Ac ....                           Mds
b.   With Project
(same format as Without Project)
3.   Cropping Intensities
a.   Without Project ..........
b.   With Project .............
4.   Describe potential for changes in cropping patterns, yields
and cropping intensities resulting from subproject.
5.   For tabulating all agricultural data the following table
can be used for the Without and With Project data:
73



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Area    Av. Yields   Production    Value         Total Gross
Crops   Acres      Mds/Ac         Mds.      per Md *      Value (Tk)
*International Prices
6.   Prepare an estimate on the cost of production (simple farm
budget) including major inputs.
7.   From 5 and 6 above determine total net benefit (Tk) of sub-
project.
Basic Engineering Data (as appropriate)
1.   The subproject must be shown in the appraisal on an accurate
map to show following items:
(a)  Subproject area;
(b)  Drainage channel, embankment, river, canals, roads or
other structures which relate to the subproject;
(c)  Indicate earthwork built under FFWP including repairs;
and
(d)  Show location of structures required.  Indicate type
and identify each structure by number.
2.   Flood Data:
(a) Classify the scheme area into annual flood depth classes
in a manner similar to example below:
Flood Depth (ft)      Area (Acre)    % of Total Area
1 -  2              1,000              33
2 -  5                800              27
5 - 10                600              20
10+                    600              20
Total               3,000             100
(b) Average annual flood level and duration.
(c) Maximum (historic) flood level and estimate of occur-
rence (for example, once in ten years).
3.   Structures Data:
(a)  List the structures required in the Table below.  Use
the same identifying number as in 1 (d) above.
74



ANNEX 3
Page 5
List of Structures Required in Subproject
Identifying    Type of
Number      Structure      Describe why the Structures are Needed
1        Regulator     To prevent river flood from entering
protected area through drainage channel,
and to drain excess water from the area
when necessary.
2        Culvert       Drainage channel must be enlarged, the
present culvert is too small and backs
up water, etc.
(b) Prepare a single line drawing for each structure in above
list. Show dimensions of opening or important features of
structure. Indicate the top elevation, floor elevation,
length, width, etc. Attach a standard drawing if available.
(c) Prepare a hydraulic calculation for structures in 3(a)
above.
(d) For a pumping plant, indicate the number, size and type .of
pumps. Show calculations to substantiate the size and number
of pumps.
(e) Show the cost of each structure and total cost of structures
in the scheme, using the same identifying number as in 3(a)
above.
(f) Show the typical cross-section of existing embankment as
designed and built. Show the elevation of embankment top
and flood levels (annual and maximum) and describe its con-
dition.
(g) Show the typical cross-sections of each drainage channel as
designed, built and to be re-excavated. Give bed levels.
Show the hydraulic computation for the amount of water
required to be removed and the capacity of the drainage
channel and describe condition.
(h) Provide following information on the existing earthworks:
(i) Status of completion;
(ii) If not complete indicate estimate of cost to complete;
(iii) If existing embankment needs upgrading, calculate the
quantity of earthwork required to improve it to an
75



ANNEX 3
Page 6
acceptable standard and to proper elevation
(with drawings of new cross sections). State the
expected completion date and constructing agency.
(i) For a large scheme indicate the elevation of top of embank-
ment at every two miles along the length. Indicate minimum
free-board above normal (annual) flood level.
(j) If the subproject area has a salinity problem (salt water
intrusion, tidal action, etc) explain the problem.
(k) All design shall be in accordance with WDB specification as
concurred by the consultants.
Cost Estimates
1.   An estimate of capital cost by construction year shall be
made for each subproject broken down into identifiable
components.
2.   An estimate of O&M costs shall be made (including adminis-
trative overhead).
3.   Sunk costs shall not be considered in these estimates.
Economic Feasibility
1.   Economic viability for each subproject shall be determined
by economic rate of return calculated on conventional method.
Operation and Maintenance
1.   Prepare the annual maintenance cost estimate for the sub-
project's features (drains, embankments, pumping plants,
irrigation works, other structures, etc.).
2.   Status of and program for assumption of O&M by the local
Councils including statement on previous O&M experience
of the Council.
76



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Procedures for Use of Revolving Fund
1. As required under Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, a project Revolving Fund Account, hereafter referred to as "Fund", will
be established in ....... Bank, by the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(WDB).
2. Periodic deposits to this Fund will be made by WDB and the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA). Initial deposit of Taka 800,000 will
be made by WDB. IDA'S share will be deposited promptly after the Development
Credit Agreement becomes effective.
3. Upon receipt of notification from IDA/Washington, WDB shall take
steps to secure the prompt deposit by GOB of IDA's contributions to the Fund.
4.  As agreed between ...... Bank and WDB the Bank will forward to WDB,
with copies to IDA/Washington and Resident Mission/Dacca, a monthly statement,
signed by the authorized representative of the above bank. The monthly state-
ment should contain the following information: (i) account number, (ii) open-
ing balance, (iii) amount and date of each deposit, (iv) amount and date of
each withdrawal and (v) closing balance.
5. As required under Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement, WDB will
deposit in the Fund Taka 800,000 and will thereafter deposit in the Fund
amounts sufficient to maintain the level of WDB's contribution to the Fund
at Taka 800,000.
6. For purposes of withdrawals from the Fund WDB will designate two
persons who will be authorized to jointly sign checks to be presented to
..... Bank for withdrawals or transfers to the sub-project implementing unit's
accounts.
7. Withdrawals from the proceeds of the Fund will be made in accordance
with WDB's existing procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
8. WDB agrees that upon receipt of official notice from IDA/Washington
it will not make any further withdrawals from the Fund representing the bal-
ance of IDA's share in the Fund on date of receipt of such notice.
9.              Bank has agreed to audit the Fund accounts semi-annually
by its auditors, and forward the auditor's report to WDB and copies to IDA/
Washington and Resident Mission/Dacca.
77



ANNEX 4
Page 2
10. As provided in Section 2.02(c) of the Credit Agreement, WDB will
furnish to IDA in respect of each payment out of the Fund the following docu-
ments:  (i) running account bill, (ii) invoices, if any, and (iii) copies
of contracts or purchase orders all to be countersigned by the consultants'.
In addition to above documents WDB will provide to IDA other documentation
that it may reasonably request showing that the payment was made on account
of the reasonably cost of goods or services required for the project (other
than goods procured ICB force account).
11. WDB will submit withdrawal applications to IDA on a quarterly basis.
These applications will be supported by the documents referred to in Article
10.  In addition, WDB will submit ...... Bank's receipts showing WDB has re-
plenished its share of the Fund. In the payment instruction part of with-
drawal applications WDB will instruct IDA to deposit the amount requested to
the Fund.
12. If for any legitimate reason IDA/Washington disallows or reduces
the amount of a claim submitted by WDB, WDB will, immediately after receipt
of notification from IDA, deposit to the Fund from its own resources the
equivalent of such amount.
13. No deposit by IDA or WDB will be made to the Fund after the aggre-
gate disbursements and commitment under the Credit amount to $25.0 million.
14. Final date for settlement of the Fund's accounts will be determined
by the Association.
15.  WDB agreement dated ........ signed with .        Bank is attached.
WDB will not amend, change or abrogate any part of the above-mentioned agree-
ment or this agreement without written agreement from IDA/Washington.
78



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Consultant's Terms of Reference
Description of Work
For the purpose of this Agreement the Consultant shall provide
certain professional and technical expertise and other services required
to establish and operate the Canadian Technical Unit whose main purpose
is to provide the necessary planning and technical advice to support the
implementation of WFP assisted food-for-work schemes concerned with water
management.
Scope of Work
In general terms the scope of the consultant's work is coincident
with that of the Canadian Technical Unit and the counterpart Bangladesh
Technical Unit, and will involve the following:
(i) improving methods for selection and monitoring of
WFP assisted schemes;
(ii) working with WDB engineers to establish an order of
priority for schemes requiring appurtenant structures;
(iii)  coordinating and assisting with the mapping of existing
schemes, evaluating their success and identifying schemes
requiring appurtenant structures;
(iv) assisting the WDB engineers, or locally hired consultants
in standardizing the design of various appurtenant struc-
tures that are to be constructed;
(v) cooperating with local government and WDB officials
in order to provide on-the-job training in sub-project
selection, design and construction supervision;
(vi)  updating WDB's specifications and inspection procedures
for the construction of structures on selected subprojects;
and
(vii)  checking and countersigning documents prior to submit to
IDA for replenishment of the Project Revolving Fund.
79



ANNEX 5
Page 2
More specifically the consultant shall perform the following tasks
in accordance with the Plan of Operation for the project:
Construction
In consultation with the WDB the consultant shall provide to CIDA,
IDA, and to the Steering Committee on a quarterly basis the details of planned
construction work including all major components such as type and quantity of
structures and site location. A general indication of construction activity
for subsequent years shall accompany each quarterly report.
Procurement
The Consultant shall:
(i) make recommendations to Bangladesh on requirements for
and procurement of light equipment, materials and supplies
including labor costs for construction purposes; and
(ii) provide details of planned purchasing activity described
in (i) above including intended site usage on a quarterly
basis and giving a general indication of purchasing
activity for subsequent years.
For items of equipment, materials and supplies provided by IDA, the
consultant shall assist WDB in preparing specifications in accordance with
"Guidelines Under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits."
For items of 'equipment, materials and supplies financed by CIDA
to facilitate the work of the Technical Unit in planning, designing and exe-
cuting the work program, the consultants shall assist WDB in:
(i) preparing specifications where necessary and make appro-
priate recommenations for the approval of IDA/CIDA;
(ii) serving as purchasing agent on behalf of the Govern-
ent of Canada for the local purchase of such goods
described in (i) above as may be required and not
already procured by other mechanisms. The total
value of such procurement shall not exceed $55,000.00,
and must be carried out in accordance with the
Canadian "Guidelines for Procurement";
(iii) maintaining an inventory of the goods described in (i)
above and arrange for the satisfactory storage of
transfer of such goods upon termination of the project.
Locally-engaged Services
With the prior approval of CIDA, the consultant shall:
80



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(i)  locate, lease and maintain required private housing
and office accommodation at an agreed rental;
(ii)  hire and supervise local staff in the Technical Unit;
(iii)  sub-contract some aspects of the Unit's work to local
consulting firms with the approval of WDB on a no objec-
tion basis by WDB within 21 days.
Canadian Staff
The consultant shall provide the necessary professional and tech-
nical expertise in Canada and in Bangladesh to execute the scope of work
outlined above. It is envisious that consultants currently assigned to the
CIDA project will initiate work on this project upon signing the agreement
between CIDA and GOB (scheduled by January 1, 1980), with Project Manager,
Technical Advisor, Design Engineer, Ccnstruction Engineer and Agricultural
Economist scheduled to be on the project by March 1, 1980. The team will
ultimately consist of the following specialists to undertake the IDA work:
Profession                              Man-months
Expatriates    Local
Project Manager (Planning Engineer) /a             45           -
Technical Advisor /a                               16           -
Design Engineer                                    48           -
Construction Engineer                              45          162 /b
Construction Engineer                              18           -
Agricultural Economist                              6           12
Sub-total                                   178           174
Total man-month                                    352
/a   Joint assignment with the CIDA project.
7W   Involves three engineers (one per region) that would
assist in subproject identification, data assembly and
appraisal during non-construction seasons.
Performance and Reports
The performance of the work covered by this Agreement shall be
coordinated with any related work that may be undertaken by the respective
government.
The Consultant shall provide CIDA, IDA and WDB with fully updated
information listing the name and addresses of this personnel assigned to
the work overseas, including names of all accompanying dependents. This
information shall be updated to CIDA/IDA/WDB wherever any changes occur
either by new assignments, changes of address, return to Canada or other
circumstances that effect this report.
81



ANNEX 5
Page 4
The consultant shall cooperate with CIDA, IDA and Bangladesh
officials in providing such information as may be necessary for the pro-
duction of financial, technical and evaluation reports, through the FCC
and approved by Member Implementation, WDB for submission to CIDA/IDA.
These include the following which are to be signed by WDB, the executing
agency:
(i) Quarterly procurement reports outlining the progress of
purchasing construction equipment, materials and supplies
(including labor costs), acquired to further the progress
of the project. Purchasing activity should be matched to
the list of construction activities underway. Procurement
expenditures with a running tally shown in relation to
percentage of total available funding should be indicated.
In addition an estimate of expenditures for the forthcoming
period should be provided along with planned construction
activities;
(ii) Semi-annual technical progress reports on work performed
by the technical unit, on construction activities, and
related agricultural and other developments. The report
should contain a comparative analysis of work completed
against work activities forecast in the Plan of Operation,
an identification of problems encountered and their solu-
tions and the percentage of funds expended in relation to
work completed; and
(iii) Monthly progress reports outlining the progress of the work.
The Consultant shall provide CIDA and IDA with monthly progress
reports briefly outlining the progress of work and summarizing administrative
matters including expatriate and local manpower, vehicle operation and main-
tenance, office operation and maintenance and interval travel. Expenditures
as well as estimated manpower and purchasing requirements for the forthcoming
period should be provided.
82



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
TERMS OF REFERENCE
WDB TASK FORCES ON ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Background
1.         The Joint GOB/World Bank Review Mission (March 1978) of the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (WDB), as one of its major tasks, carried
out a review of the organization and management of WDB. Time and manpower
constraints precluded finalization and agreement on definitive recommendations.
However, the joint mission did identify many areas that require followup
attention. The joint mission therefore agreed that WDB should organize a
task force on organization and a task force on implementation that should
review these matters for the explicit purpose of making recommendations to
GOB and WDB officials on appropriate improvements.
2.         The future organization of WDB must reflect two major thrusts
coming out of the report of the joint review mission: (1) emphasis on widely
distributed lower cost per acre schemes, and (2) fourfold increase in irri-
gated service between now and 1984/85. This will require strengthening of the
field organization under the Zonal CE and organizing and properly funding a
strong separate entity for O&M.
Description of Program
3.         This program of work will be under the leadership of and within WDB.
WDB would organize a task force on organization and a task force on imple-
mentation to make specific studies resulting in followup recommendations for
improvement including the following areas:
O&M Task Force
(a) Removing the O&M function from Member, Implementation,
to enable him to focus full attention on implementing
schemes;
(b) Establishing a Member, Operation and Maintenance, and the
immediate transfer of staff involved in such work,as well
as adding to this staff as required;
(c) Under Member Planning, consolidating the Directorate of
Economic Planning into CE Planning; supplementing the
engineering cadre of CE Planning with other disciplines;
and initiating the decentralization of planning staff
to the field;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(d) Making the Zonal CE is administratively reportable to the
Chairman and technically responsible to the individual
members for appropriate program responsibilities;
(e) Reviewing the assignment of responsibilities and workload
among the Members, Supplies and Services, Administration,
Finance Implementation and Planning, and the possibility
of creating a small audit cell reporting to the Chairman;
(f) Transferring all or more of EPE's economists to the Chief
Engineer Planning, as well as a small number of agro-
nomists, biologists, hydrologists, sociologists, etc;
(g) Improving the relationship between extension members and
farmers by shifting the task of assessing incremental crop
values from the Extension Officers to the Land and Revenue
Officers;
(h)  Selecting on the basis of merit-cum-seniority (but with
primary emphasis on merit) among the five most senior
candidates for promotions to SE and CE positions and intro-
ducing, where necessary and possible, a system examination;
(i) Instituting an "incentive cash awards program" for the best
performing staff (perhaps the top 5%) in each major career
category, and publicizing the awards, the recipients and the
reasons;
(i) Introducing more realism into programming estimates and
schedules, with systematic followup on schedule control;
(k) Making clear to all staff the performance requirements
expected of them and use these as the basis for the annual
confidential reports;
(1) Attracting the best talent in key positions in Dacca which
are difficult to fill by making available suitable accommoda-
tion and transportation; and
(m) Strengthening the capability of the O&M Directorate to keep
procedures and staffing under continuous review.
Implementation Task Force
(a) Preparing a program for recommendations emanating from the World
Bank mission, "Operational Review of Local Currency Shortage
Problem" on financing and flow of funds for implementing WDB
schemes as adopted by GOB;
84



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(b) Introducing further delegation wherever possible, eliminating
unnecessary and redundant clearances and setting time norms for
clearance action, after which concurrence may be assumed;
(c) Improving local coordination by extending the Project Imple-
mentation Committee procedure now used mainly on IDA projects
to more WDB projects, provided officers in the required
disciplines are seconded to the project; and
(d) Reducing high ultimate costs due to delays in land acquisition
by considering means for (1) starting the process earlier, and
(2) deputizing the special land acquisition officer to the
particular project.
Organization of Program
4.        WDB should organize and have operational by July 1, 1979 the task
force on organization and the task force on implementation. It is suggested
that each task force be chaired by a Member of the Board. Report from each
task force to Chairman WDB should be within 12 months of initiation of study.
The joint mission recommended that UNDP technical assistance be requested to
assist the two task forces 1/. It is envisioned that WDB will be the co-
operating agency and World Bank the executing agency.
5.        The request for UNDP technical assistance should be made early in
1979 and would include funding for 24 man months of technical assistance.
Personnel                Man-Months         Cost 2/
US$
Management Specialist             12             120,000
Water Resources Adm.              12             120,000
240,000
Contingencies (15%)                              35,000
275,000
1/   UNDP officials, including the UNDP Resident Representative, indicated
interest in funding such a program during discussions held on the
subject in March and June 1978.
2/   Includes all cost, i.e. personal services, fringe benefits, travel,
lodging, etc.
8#5



ANNEX 7
BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Related Documents and Background Papers
1.   Rural works Project - Preparation of Technical Information March 1979
(Technical Unit of WBD and NEDECO)
2.   World Bank - Bangladesh - Current Economic Trends, Volumes I & II,
March 10, 1978
3.   World Bank - Bangladesh - Food Policy Review - December 12, 1977
4.   World Bank - Hardcore Program Report, February 8, 1973
5.   World Bank - Bangladesh - Land and Water Resources Sector Study,
Volumes VI & VII, December 1, 1972
6.   Canadian Assistance to WFP - Assisted FFW Schemes, July 1978,
(Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Ltd.)
7.   Handbook for Implementation and Documentation of CIDA Schemes
(Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Ltd.)
8.   Economic Analysis Background Tables
9.   Joint Document of the Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank -
Review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board, Report No. 2327-BD,
April 2, 1979.
10. Terms of Reference for CIDA's consultant, March 3, 1978.
86



BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
;       CHAIRMAN
|WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
[ (IMPLEMENTATION)SUPI&
CONSULTANTS                         CHIEF ENGINEER (C.E.)
C.E. DESIGN         TECHNICAL UNIT
I DA   C IDA                      ( F LOO D CONTR O L CE LL)
I    L m   m   m    m   m   m      I SELECTION AND
|-----            - 1      PLANNING
I~                                  
CONSTR UCTION
World Bank - 20213
87






r  >  > zv I N D I A                              BANGLADESH
S!<%t3  -'' %\w\t  1.2S                                              SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
F                                                                     ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE-9    Sanir Haor Embankment Schnee
g  Thnnursson,2   <  / < WDomar"~- \tF   '<  %,v; ,,    /                                      SW-2    Reexcavation of Harihar River
21                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SW-4    Excavation of Nurania Drain              2-*
SW-i    Construction of Embankment, Bhola
et.                   ~~~~~SW-1A: Souith Bhola Closuires
SE-2    Re-excavation of Dhurang Canal, Repairing Embankment
3%  ~~~~~~~9O95p' ~~~~~~~~~and Structures
2  \                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary Roads
DINA8PUR  '- - --                                                           District Boundaries
. -- , P- -   International Boundaries
4E       I ''        Y   L             4  \    S?k
A     S    Hr          I         N                                                     \   A
< e ;    9\A <    t                                                                               il>d 0)fi \t~~~9< 
N~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N D I A       
AkND
iT~~~~ >
I STANgf  D~ n I A       ItULNA qN4  K                                                                                           N    i          RANGAMAT,
This map has bean prepared by the    Xy\~H                                                                           by-                            Pta
Wo,ld Bak's staff -ciui AeY fo         ?                                                                                                                      .
the sonvetiettta of the redr of   /(%I                                  - 
22' the report to which it is d. tattce                                                                                                           J 
The dmnom3inatiots used an the
boundaies shoow on this ma 
ds not implY. o the Par of the
</ / tILANKA                                                                                                                                \             _(&  1
judgmnt o the l    status of              
any tenitoy ar arty endorsemntm-  >  j                 -
o,ecceptw)te of such boundaries.
9403959f  '-,      C H I'NA                                                                                                                     N     '
ISAt                jt-/ITN.
I N3,., A
BOY~   8of Bnga                                             D       23     5
N  I                                   9,Io.ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,                                                             C O~~~~~~



