Document of               FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2626-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATI.ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL
PROJECT
September 26, 1979
This document has a restricted dtribulon nd my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offiial dus. its ontents may no othwenie be disclosed without World Dank awthoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk 34.6868 to
the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar
and consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The
rate below has been used throughout this report except where other-
wise stated.
US$1            =  Tk 15.5
Tk 1            =  US$0.0645
Tk 1 million    =  US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                        =       0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                        =       1.509 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)              =       640 ac (259 ha)
I foot (ft)                        =       30.5 centimeters (cm)
I maund (md)                       =       82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)                 =       26.8 md
M                                  =       million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI    - Agricultural Research Institute
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRRI   -  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CEFCC  -  Chief Engineer, Flood Control Cell
CIDA   -  Canadian International Development Agency
CO     -  Circle Officer Development
DOAEM  -  Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
EE     -  Executive Engineer
FFWP   -  Food-for-Work Program
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
HYV    -  High Yielding Varieties
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
IRRI   -  International Rice Research Institute
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOA    -  Ministry oi- Agriculture
MRR    -  Ministry of Relief and Rahabilitation
PIC    -  Project Implementation Committee
PIO    -  Project Implementation Officer
SDO    -  Sub-divisional Officers
SE     -  Superintending Engineer
TAA    -  Thana Agricultural Assistant
UAA    -  IJnion Agricultural Assistant
WDB    -  Water Development Board
WFP    -  World Food Program
ZCE    -  Zonal Chief Engineer
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman  -   Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in
June) and harvested between November and February (b. aman
is broadcast, t.aman is transplanted).
Aus   -   Paddy planted during March and April and harvested between
June and August (b. aus is broadcast, t. aus is transplanted).
Boro  -   Paddy planted in winter and harvested between April and June.
Rabi  -   Dry season.
Paddy -   Unhulled rice.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the Performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:           US$25.0 M Equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Purpose:          The project would assist in financing permanent structures
and improvement of earthworks to complement various earth-
works schemes constructed under the Food-For-Work-Program.
It would include the provision of equipment and vehicles for
project implementation as well as consultants to assist the
Water Development Board (WDB) in the selection, planning,
design and supervision of sub-projects. The project would,
in the sub-project areas, result in significant increases in
annual f'oodgrain (mainly paddy) production ranging from 35%
to 53% over current levels. While incremental increases in
net farm incomes would vary by sub-project and among indi-
vidual f'armers, net farm incomes would, in general, increase
by 50% to 100%. The project would increase employment oppor-
tunities in the rural areas, primarily through changes in
land use, an increase in cropping intensity and an improve-
ment in crop yields. The project beneficiaries would
comprise farming communities residing in the sub-project
areas. The criteria for sub-project selection are designed
to ensure that the project would be mainly directed towards
the development of smaller schemes with the aim of ensuring
that a reasonable percentage of project benefits would
accrue to small farmers.



- ii -
Estimated Project                                                          Foreign
Costs:  a/                                    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
------US$ million----       %
Item
Permanent Structures and
Earthwork Improvements      15.0 b/  9.6    24.6         40
Equipment and Vehicles          -       0.6      0.6      100
Engineering and
Administration                2.2     0.3      2.5       10
Consultants                    -        2.7      2.7      100
Sub-total                  17.2    13.2    30.4         40
Price Contingencies             3.2      1.4     4.6       30
Total Project Cost         20.4    14.6    35.0 c/   40
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
-- US$ Million ------
IDA                            15.0        10.0        25.0
GOB                             7.0           -         7.0
CIDA                            0.3         2.7         3.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  FY80   FY81   FY82  FY83   FY84
Annual                         3.5    5.5    7.5   7.0    1.5
Cumulative                     3.5    9.0   16.5  23.5   25.0
Economic Rate
of Return:      Over 25%
Appraisal
Report:         Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
Project, September 26, 1979, Report No. 2507b-BD
a/   Small discrepancies due to rounding.
b/   Includes US$0.05 M for land acquisition.
c/   Includes US$2.6 M equivalent in taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND ]RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVfE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$25.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to assist in the financing of a Small Scale
Drainage and Flood Control Project. The proposed project would also be
financed by a grant of US$3.0 M equivalent from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the country in June 1978; its report
entitled "B3angladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No.
2245-BD) was circulated on December 15, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent in December 1971, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
need to fashion a national government out of a provincial administration, to
establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry, trade, and
banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry to the changed market
conditions.
4.         The first years of independence were difficult.  Poor harvests in
1972/73 were followed by damnaging floods in 1974. Bangladesh's terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply. The production of jute, the predominant export,
stagnated. Inflation, declining real wages, labor unrest and political
instability added to the troubles. During this early period, relief,
rehabilitation, and consolidation of Government authority were unavoidably
the paramount concerns of policy makers.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater
political stability, signal a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and somewhat brighten its economic prospects. The present
time can be characterized as a period of consolidation of the country's
economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970's. It is also a period
which offers planners and policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the
longer-term needs of development.  In recognition of its need for a funda-
mental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a
new Five 'Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
has given GOB officials time to carefully consider the development strategy
and policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July
1980.



- 2-
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        The most notable recent political development was the parliamentary
election held in February 1979. Since 1975, Bangladesh had been governed
under martial law and without a parliament. In the recent elections, some 29
political parties and groups contested the 300 seats in the National Assembly.
Roughly two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party
headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who had previously been confirmed as
President in an election held in June 1978. The Assembly has substantial
powers, including control over the country's finances. Martial law was
lifted following the convening of the new Parliament in March 1979. One
area in which the Government expects these developments to have a salutary
effect is in the investment climate; it is hoped that both domestic and
foreign investors will be encouraged.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.  Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline in
the previous year, and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly
8% in real terms. For the third year in a row, Bangladesh was spared major
droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain output reached a record level of 13.1
million tons. The favorable results in agriculture were explained not only by
good weather but also by constructive Government actions resulting in sharply
increased supplies of fertilizer, other agricultural inputs and credit, and
larger and more efficient procurement effort, at prices attractive to farmers.
Results for wheat were particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased
substantially, partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme. The
strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival in consumer
demand, an increase in investment, and improved availability of imported raw
materials. Capacity utilization in industry was stimulated by increased
demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, by an intensification of construc-
tion activity, and by a liberalized import policy for industrial raw materials
and spare parts.
8.        It is still too early to make an accurate assessment of the economy's
overall performance in FY79. Agricultural production appears to have been at
least 200,000 tons below the level reached in FY78, mainly due to poor weather.
Reduced foodgrain procurement, delayed food imports and a high rate of off-
take through the ration system in the first half of CY1979 led to food stocks
falling to undesirably low levels. Beginning in April 1979, however, the
Government actively undertook to purchase additional food and to negotiate
increased and accelerated foodgrain import deliveries from several donors.
These actions appear to have ensured that some 1.7 million tons of food will
be delivered to Bangladesh in the period June-November 1979. Agreement was
also reached between GOB and the donors that a special meeting of the Bangla-
desh Aid Group would be convened in early 1980 (when results of the next
aman harvest will be known). This meeting will ascertain the food aid
requirements for CY1980 and will focus anew on the food policy issues that
were the subject of the Bank's 1977 report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy
Review" (Report No. 1764a-BD, dated December 12, 1977).
9.        Notwithstanding the decline in agricultural output in FY79, sub-
stantial growth was reported in other sectors, notably manufacturing and
construction. Both private and public sector investments have also shown



-3-
some growth momentum.  According to the FY80 budget document, the revised
FY79 Annual. Development Program was 33% larger than in FY78, while dis-
bursements of project aid increased by some Tk 1.4 billion (about $90 M),
representing a 35% increase over FY78. Nevertheless, it is still uncertain
whether the overall GDP growth rate for FY79 was ahead of population growth.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
In FY78, the acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25%. Current expenditure
meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a substantial upward
adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel.  The net result
was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same time, develop-
ment expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid disbursements,
deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of current revenue.
Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome aspect of current
developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued to rise during FY78
and began to have its effect: on the price level. The cost of living increased
by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77. Seeking to keep inflation
under control, the Government drew up a balanced budget for FY79.  Preliminary
results for FY79 indicate that total revenues rose by about 20% whereas
current expenditures increased by less than 10%, in current prices. The
resultant increase in the current surplus was nearly 80% above that realized
in FY78, representing a considerable gain in domestic resource mobilization.
As in the previous year, hoiwever, there was a rapid growth in money supply
and inflation continued at a rate of about 12%.
11.       There is scope to increase taxation, improve tax administration and
reduce the very large subsidies to public corporations.  The Government has
been considering new means to mobilize additional domestic resources. At the
June 1978 meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group, the Government announced its
decision to establish five committees to consider the following issues:
(i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) rationalization of the rate
structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic pricing by public
utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies, including the
fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial performance of public
sector enterprises. The committees have recently concluded their work.
Furthermore, a detailed survey of the jute industry was recently completed;
this should lead to a modernization program and eventually to improved manage-
ment practices, increased labor productivity and better financial performance.
The final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was also submitted to the
Governmenl: in early 1979. A modest start was made to implement some of the
recommendations of both the resource mobilization committees and the Commis-
sion in the context of the FY80 budget.
12.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
13.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-dolubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in



-4-
FY77 to $852 M FY78. The increased export earnings in FY78 represented
a continuation of a trend that began with the 1975 devaluation. The main
determinant of the FY78 improvement was a 16% increase in export prices,
especially of traditional exports such as jute and tea. Although raw jute
exports declined due to supply shortages, jute goods exports were buoyant,
mainly due to fiber shortages in international markets, some substitution of
jute for synthetics, and government incentive policies, including special
export bonus subsidies. Jute and jute product exports still account for about
70% of total Bangladeshi exports. The growth of minor and non-traditional
exports in FY78 was modest as compared with the previous year.
14.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 M in FY78 and were
projected to exceed $100 M in FY79. An offsetting effect, however, has been
the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This has led both to higher costs for
skills in short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects. (An
analysis of this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently
underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's external research
program.)
15.       The balance of payments for FY79 was marked by a slower growth in
imports despite a substantial increase in project aid disbursements. The
trade deficit was nevertheless larger than in the previous year partly because
of some deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in
FY78. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the overall gap covered
by foreign aid disbursements in FY79 was estimated at about $1 billion.
International reserves rose during the year by about $65 M to reach US$357 M
as of June 30, 1979.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
16.       Notwithstanding the progress achieved in the mid-1970s, especially
in foodgrain output and per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of
Bangladesh are still: mass poverty; a unique environment prone to natural
disasters; and dependence on aid, not only for investment financing but also
for food and other recurrent inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality
is high, and human fertility remains largely unchecked. A large part of the
adult population is illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed.
Although the economy has largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the
early 1970's, in a number of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In
FY78 per capita income ($91), domestic savings (3% of GDP), per capita rice
production (notwithstanding that year's record crop) and average nutrition
levels remained depressed below their pre-independence levels. The investment
ratio (13% of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate, after some
years of depression to considerably lower levels. Foreign aid still covers
some 75-80% of public investment.
17.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 M tons annually in recent years
(1.3 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be inadequate
for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented. The density



-5-
of population on the land is already extremely high, and landlessness is on
the increase; almost half th,e rural population (comprising nearly 90% of
Bangladesh's 85 M people) is landless or virtually landless. Population
growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually. The country's
resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other natural re-
soures, except for natural gas deposits, are meager.  The infraLtcucture
remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and administrative skills has
hindered the country's ability both to plan and to implement its policies
and projects effectively.
18.       Confronted by these formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Governni-t is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP) to
rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and longer-term devel-
opment strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population control and rural
development as top priorities. A nationwide framework for family planning
services has been established, and experiments have been made with various
types of rural development models. Steps have been taken to provide incentive
prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement policies, to reduce the
levels of producer and consumer subsidies, and to improve the working of
public sector corporations, most notably in the jute manufacturing sector.
Greater sccpe is being given to the private industrial sector. The Government
has established a Project Implementation Bureau as a means to help speed up
the slow pace of project implementation. The beneficial results of these
reforms areb not always readily apparent, and in a number of cases will take
considerable time to show. The TYP itself is, of course, unlikely to change
the course of development, since its period is too short and most of the
development: budget during these two years (83%) is preempted by ongoing
projects. Moreover, the TYP's targets in the fundamental areas of employment
creation and population control are unrealistic. A further weakness is that
the TYP does not clearly indicate which uneconomic projects have been weeded
out nor what criteria are to be used to make decisions about abandoning
such projects during the remainder of the TYP period.
19.       W4ork on a Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the Second Five Year Plan
is still in a preliminary stage. Present indications are that the Government
will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and institutional changes to
bring about a rural orientation and decentralization of planning; (ii) achieve-
ment of food self-sufficiency by 1985; (iii) employment creation and population
control; (iv) drastic reductions in subsidies, and other means to mobilize
domestic resources; and (iv') a major new effort to reduce illiteracy. It
remains to be seen, of course, what specific new modalities will be devised
for achieving these broad objectives. But clearly these are all central
objectives, and much of IDA's own economic and sectoral work program is
currently addressed to the analysis of rural development (including the
dynamics of demographic growth), food production, trade policy and industrial
development prospects, and domestic resource mobilization. Considerable
attention is also being given, particularly by IDA's resident mission, to
finding ways and means to improve aid coordination and project implementation.
20.       External Capital ]Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource molbilization, Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is becoming even more important in view of the fact



- 6 -
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. It is
estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $800 million in FY78,
rose to around $1 billion in FY79, comprising $200 million of food, $475
million of commodities and $300 million of project aid. To build up the
pipeline for FY80, required FY79 commitments were estimated at approximately
$1,600 million. On the basis of donor pledges and indications given at the
January 1979 Aid Group meetings, and taking into account actual and prospec-
tive commitments by other donors, it appears that this target has been real-
ized. For some time to come, Bangladesh's capital and current import
requirements must be met to a large extent by external assistance if its
economic growth and execution of current development plans are not to be
slowed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
21.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 M (includ-
ing US$44.1 M for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of August 31, 1979, 35 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 M referred to in paragraph 22,
have been made, totalling US$975.7 M. Of these, US$525 M have been for eight
program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricultural development,
but also included amounts for population, telecommunications, transport,
power, water supply and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the
105th member of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (High Speed Shipbuilding
and Engineering Co., Ltd.) was approved on May 10, 1979.
22.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bilat-
eral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became indepen-
dent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it could
do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid
is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank
Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 M were signed on February
14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt
is not expected to rise significantly above the present level of about 27%
over the next few years.
23.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of August 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, due inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of
contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Govern-
ment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are begin-
ning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement



-7-
performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because of a
shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and
organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to strengthen
the key ministries and agencies dealing with agriculture and water resources,
such as, the Water Development Board (WDB) and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) through detailed studies of their organizational
and operating procedures. These steps have produced noticeable improvements
in the rate of project implementation and further improvements are expected.
IDA and GOB have also given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and
supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems at an early
stage, thereby reducing the risk of undue delays in project implementation.
Furthermore, the Govern,ment has taken a number of steps, including improved
procedures for recruitment of civil servants and increased emphasis on train-
ing which should gradually improve the quality of public administration. On
the organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing
planning cells in the main ministries and agencies and is strengthening the
Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under
specific projects and under three Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 490-BD,
622-BD and 872-BD).
Agricultural Operations
24.       Of the 27 new project credits totalling US$450.7 M, 14 credits
totalling IJS$241.5 M have been directed towards agriculture and rural devel-
opment (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allocated
to this sector).  In line with the strategy set forth in the Bank Group's
"Land and W4ater Resources Sector Study" (Report No. PS-13) IDA-supported
projects have emphasized:
(a) expansion of irrigation, drainage and flood control facili-
ties through technically simple, low cost, short gestation
water control projects;
(b) strengthening of agricultural supporting services such as
extension, applied research, credit, small farmer cooperatives
and rural training; and
(c) improvement of farm input supplies such as seeds and
fertilizers.
25.       Several of the IDA-supported agricultural projects--among them the
Chandpur 1I Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD), the Northwest Tubewells
Project (Credit 341-BD) and the Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 381-BD)--are
complete or nearing completion and the preliminar:y assessment of the likely
benefits indicates the soundness of these investments. Other projects also
remain economically viable although in many cases the pace of implementation
has been rather disappointing and their completion is likely to be delayed
because of the reasons stated in paragraph 23 above. In addition to the
measures dliscussed in that paragraph, the Government and IDA have also given
increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervision of the various
projects in order to identify and resolve the potential problems at an early
stage. The above measures have resulted in visible improvements in project



-8-
implementation and disbursements over the past two years. Further improve-
ments are feasible in many cases and are being pursued as part of the ongoing
dialogue between the Government and the Association. However, given the
complexities of development administration in Bangladesh, the aid agencies
also need to place a greater emphasis on technical assistance for project
preparation, monitoring and supervision as well as institutional development.
They also need to set realistic timetables and targets for their future
lending programs.
26.       The fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending to Bangladesh. However, in the short-term, the rate of lending
for agriculture will be based upon progress in improving the currently
limited absorptive capacity of the various implementing agencies.
Other Sectors
27.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight program credits
approved to date. The industrial sector has also benefitted from DFC and
small scale industry projects and a fertilizer production project. IFC is
currently in the process of identifying further suitable investment opportun-
ities following the approval of its first project referred to in paragraph 21
above.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was approved on May 29, 1979. Improved
education and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending
in this field has emphasized agricultural and technical training; a project
for vocational and management education was recently approved.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, major efforts are being made to
identify and provide much needed assistance both in support of agricultural
development as well as other critical infrastructural areas such as trans-
portation, industry, water, energy and power, and telecommunications. A
power project was approved on June 16, 1979 and further credits to finance
a second Dacca Water Supply project and a fertilizer imports program were
approved on June 26, 1979. In addition to the proposed credit, the processing
of a low lift pump project and a second highway project is currently underway.
Particular emphasis will continue to be placed on projects which provide
infrastructure for the rural sector, process or provide outlets for products
from the rural areas, reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange
resources and make a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's
overall development efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign
exchange position, IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs.
However, all external lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of
resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by
difficulties in the preparation and implementation of development projects.
The Government's capacity to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by
a low domestic savings rate and recent measures taken by the Government to
help correct this deficiency are discussed in paragraph 11 above. In these
circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as



-9-
agricultural and rural development -- where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also
justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provide the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strat:egy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the phyisical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
increasingly have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design,
preparation and implementation to administrative realities. They will also
have to contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision
than is the case in many oither countries. There are, however, enormous
opportunities for making significant progress in improving economic conditions
for the people of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will
require painstaking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
32.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 75% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the coun-
try's exports. About 75% of the agricultural GDP is derived from crops and
the rest from forestry (4%), fisheries (13%) and livestock (8%). Bangladesh
has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac are under cultivation at
a cropping intensity averasging 135% in recent years. Rice, by far the most
important: crop, accounts f'or about 80% of the cropped area; jute, the prin-
cipal export, for 6%, and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses,
oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables for the remaining 14%. Agricultural pro-
ductivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; paddy yield of
about 0.5 ton per ac is barely half the average for Asia as a whole.
33.       The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural
poor in order to improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase
export earnings. The Government's strategy for the sector emphasizes strength-
ening of rural institutions, improved farm input supplies, better utilization
of existing irrigation facilities, and further expansion of irrigation
facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation schemes.
Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production
34.       Available data on unemployment and rural poverty in Bangladesh in-
dicate an increasingly precarious situation. A recent survey indicates that



- 10 -
the distribution of land ownership in rural Bangladesh is highly skewed and
may be deteriorating. Landlessness is increasing and fragmentation of hold-
ings brought about by population pressure is reducing more and more farms to
below-subsistence size. It is estimated that 50% of rural households are
landless and that only 25% of all rural households now own more than 2 ac,
the minimum holding size necessary to provide subsistence income. However,
even many of the larger landowners (over 8 acres) would be considered small
and poor in countries other than Bangladesh. The heavy pressure of popula-
tion on the land represents a major development constraint, constitu es an
obstacle to efficient farm management and makes the organization of coopera-
tive irrigation systems difficult. An additional constraint is the agricul-
tural tenancy arrangements, under which about 30% of Bangladesh farmers
operate. Under the customary rental arrangements, tenants normally provide
all of the inputs, but receive only about half of the crop and have no right
of occupancy. There is therefore, little incentive to develop land for
irrigation or to adopt improved farming practices.
35.       A number of organizational deficiencies have also adversely affected
growth. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations.
Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and unreliable
distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers and pesti-
cides, and by the absence of an effective extension system. Adequate market-
ing, processing and storage facilities as well as a rational and efficient
credit policy, have also been lacking. Agricultural planning has generally
been based on a poor data base, inadequate analysis, and very little feedback
from operating departments, resulting in unrealistic targets, inflexible and
uncoordinated programs, and unexpected bottlenecks during implementation.
Project implementation has often suffered from an over-centralization of
decision-making, cumbersome administrative procedures, inadequately
trained manpower and poor conditions of service and poorly defined work
responsibilities.
Development Strategy and Issues
36.       Given the constraints inhibiting a more rapid growth of the agri-
cultural sector, any effective policy to raise significantly the level of
production and assure long-term growth must provide for a more timely and
adequate supply of modern farm inputs (fertilizer, HYV seeds, pesticides,
credit and extension) and also, an effective input/output pricing policy to
provide suitable incentives to farmers.
37.       Furthermore, since increased production must come essentially from
land already under cultivation, the provision of irrigation facilities would
be the principal means of increasing land use intensity, particularly during
the dry season (November to March). Successive governments have introduced
various programs to provide flood protection, drainage and irrigation facil-
ities, aimed at increasing the intensity of cultivable land use. Earlier
government policies had emphasized the development of large-scale gravity
irrigation and flood control projects. However, by the early 1960s, there
was a change in emphasis with priority being given to greater reliance on the
use of low lift pumps (LLPs) and tubewells. This strategy has proved econom-
ically attractive and is now yielding significant results. The establishment



- 11 -
of WDB in 1959 and BADC in 1961 were perceived as efforts to improve perfor-
mance iL tue irrigation sub--sector in order to achieve an overall increase in
the level of agricultural production. Since their inception, both institutions
have been instrumental in implementing a number of schemes to provide flood
protection, drainage and irrigation, and in increasing the intensity of land
use. Through the implementation of a number of programs, the traditional
bucket-liiEt method used by farmers for irrigating dry season (boro) crops is
gradually being replaced by modern irrigation facilities such as LLPs and
shallow tubewell (STWs). By 1978, a total area of around 2.7 M ac of land
was under irrigation, of which only about 0.9 M ac was still being irrigated
by traditional methods.
38.       LLPs are small capacity (1-2 cusec) diesel powered centrifugal
pumps used to raise irrigation water from perennial streams and ponds.
Following their introduction in the late 1950s, an estimated 37,000 LLPs
have already been fielded, irrigating a total land area of around 1.4 M ac.
While the implementation oE the LLP program has, in general, been largely
successful, a major constraint to expansion of the program has been the
limited availability of surface water, particularly during the dry season.
However, it is estimated that existing surface water resources could support
additional fieldings of around 100,000 LLPs after which, further expansion
of the program would have to be in conjunction with the improvement of natural
channels, including the provision of associated control structures.
39.       Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer another good prospect for
quick-yielding, high return expansion of irrigated areas where surface water
is not available. Conservative estimates based on preliminary investigations
indicate that some 4 M ac could be irrigated by tubewells. Two kinds of
tubewells are used in Bangladesh--deep tubewells (DTWs-typically using 20 hp
diesel engines and yielding about two to three cusec) and shallow tubewells
(STWs-typically equipped with 5 to 6 hp diesel engines yielding less than one
cusec). Hand pumps capable of irrigating 1/3 ac are currently irrigating
approximately 20,000 ac.
40.       Until recently, much of the emphasis in groundwater development was
placed on DTWs, and it is expected that by the end of this year, 9,000 DTWs
will be in operation. However, STWs can be used by smaller groups of farmers,
and are less expensive and simpler to install and maintain. As a result, the
Government has been encouraging greater utilization of STWs. Although so far
only about 7,000 STWs have been installed, proposals have been approved or are
under consideration for installing an additional 35,000 STWs over the next 4-5
years. By the early 1980s, these 35,000 STWs are expected to irrigate about
0.4 million ac. Ultimately, Bangladesh should be able to absorb about 100,000
STWs irrigating over one million ac.
41.       GOB's current TYP allocations for water resource development amount
to Tk 3,250 M (US$210 M), representing about 35% of the total gross develop-
ment out:lay for agriculture, water resources, and rural institutions and about
10% of t:he total national planned expenditures. Of the planned total for
water resource development, an estimated Tk 1,890 M (58%) would be directed
to WDB projects consisting mainly of drainage and flood control systems and
irrigation schemes. Another Tk 1,325 M (41%) would be allocated to BADC
primariLy for investment in irrigation facilities. Through TYP investments,



- 12 -
irrigated area is expected to increase from 2.7 to 3.3 M. While this target
may appear unrealistic on the basis of historical trends it is, nevertheless,
possible that on more modest assumptions total irrigated area could reach
about 2.9 million ac by 1980, implying a 4.3% growth over the previous
two years.
42.       Realization of GOB's objective to achieve national foodgrain self-
sufficiency by 1985 would require the timely implementation of a number of
institutional reforms and, depending on the incremental yield assumptions
used, an offtake of between 1.5 and 2.0 M tons p.a. of fertilizers; about
4.8 M ac of irrigated land; and an increase in the use of HYVs to around
8.0 M ac. While investments in these inputs would be attractive and assure
high returns, an expanded program for the provision of inputs in such magni-
tudes would not be feasible on budgetary grounds if, inter alia, GOB's current
levels of input subsidies are maintained. Nor can the continued retention of
such subsidies be justified on grounds of equity as the main beneficiaries
are generally the larger farmers. There is, therefore, a need for phasing
out existing subsidies on farm inputs though in doing so care would have to be
taken in formulating an effective input/output pricing policy that would offer
sufficient incentive to farmers through the provision of appropriate output
price support measures.
The Food-for-Work Program
43.       The major purpose of the Food-for-Work Program (FFWP) is to provide
relief by employing the unemployed and underemployed in various schemes of
economic value. Typically, such schemes are labor intensive earthmoving works
such as the construction or repair and maintenance of embankments, roads,
canals, tanks and drains; removal of water hyacinth from irrigation and other
waterways; and cleaning of village tanks and fish ponds. In return for
undertaking these activities food (normally wheat) is provided in lieu of cash
wages. In rural Bangladesh, with unemployment and underemployment in the
rural labor force averaging between 35% and 50%, few areas, if any, would fail
to qualify for a scheme.
44.       The FFWP is a WFP sponsored program which was started in Bangladesh
in 1975 following a decision in late 1974 that the relief handouts of foodgrain
that had been necessary in earlier years be replaced progressively by produc-
tive food-for-work schemes. At the beginning of 1975, GOB asked WFP to
provide food aid to support this policy.  WFP responded with a grant of 56,000
metric tons of wheat involving a cost to WFP of US$10.45 M, of which the cost
of food was US$9 M.  The initial grant of food was designed to last one year.
Extensions of FFWP were made in July 1976 for another year and in 1977 for a
further three-year period involving 108,000 tons (US$21 M) and 314,000 tons
(US$61 M) respectively.  A third extension covering five years (for a probable
600,000 tons at a total cost to WFP of about US$120 M) is likely.
45.       Overall responsibility for coordinating FFWP schemes rests with
the Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation (MRR). A Coordinating and Policy
Advisory Committee, established at the Secretary level and chaired by the
Secretary MRR provides the policy framework for FFWP and ensures coordination
among participating ministries and agencies. The day-to-day implementation of
FFWP schemes within each Thana (the lowest central government administrative



- 13 -
unit) is vested in a specially created Project Implementation Committee (PIC),
of which the Circle Development Officer (CO), who is usually responsible for
about 4 to 5 Thanas, is chairman. The PIC is responsible for the recruitment
of labor requ.ired for the execution of each scheme and also, for payment for
work done, irL kind (usually wheat).
46.       FFWP schemes are usually initiated either by GOB's technical
agencies (e.g., WDB, IRDP, etc.) or by local government authorities, such as
Thana and Union (the lowest local government unit) councils. FFWP schemes
are usually based on the expressed needs of local communities and therefore
engender a st:rong interest and commitment among the inhabitants of each
area in which each scheme is located. In general, local initiative schemes
(proposed by Thana and Union councils) are usually less sound (technically
and economically) than those proposed by GOB's technical agencies. However,
within the context of its overall rural development strategy, GOB attaches
importance to local initiative schemes as a means of promoting strong local
government institutions that would provide the basic framework for encouraging
greater productivity, providing greater employment opportunities and for
facilitating the mobilization of the domestic investment capital required for
further growth of the rural sector. To qualify for assistance under the WFP
program, FFWP schemes must first be approved by the MRR and later sanctioned
by the WFP representative in D)acca. Detailed reports on wheat paid out and
work completed are submitted for incorporation in quarterly reports compiled
by WDB. In addition, MRR maintains its own audit and inspection teams that
regularly check the accounts of its assisted schemes.
47.       The standard paymenit for earthmoving, the principal activity in
FFWP schemes, is three seers of wheat (about 2.8 kg) for a daily task of 70
cu ft of earth moved, with ad,ditional allowances being paid for above average
carries or lifts. At present wheat prices, three seers of wheat have a market
value of about Tk 5.5 compared to an average cash wage in rural areas of
Tk 8-9 per day plus food for similar work by workers privately employed for
a daily task of 100 cu ft. The task for women, who are encouraged to parti-
cipate, is 50 cu ft, the payment for which is also three seers of wheat.
Three seers of wheat are estimated to provide the energy requirements of a
family of five and about 90% of the needs of the average Bangladesh family of
5.6 people. Many participants, however, sell all or part of the wheat they
earn in order to buy other essential commodities. Generally, wheat is dis-
tributed to workers twice weekly as work progresses.
48.       Minimal equipment is used by the workers, basically hoes and baskets,
and usually no equipment is available for compaction or other mechanical
processes.
Other Food-for-Work and Related Schemes
49.       USAID operates a scheme basically similar to the FFWP and of a com-
parable size' in terms of wheat delivered (in the current year FFWP 107,000
metric tons/USAID 100,000 metric tons). The USAID scheme which commenced
operations in 1976 is implemented through CARE, as executing agency, has a
small team of technical experts which assists in the design and supervision
of its schemes and deals onlv with local initiative schemes (see paragraph 46
above). A number of other bilateral donors, in particular Canada, Australia,



- 14 -
Libya 1r!d the Federal Republic of Germany, have also made donations of wheat
for use in food-for-work schemes operated oil FFWP principles. In 1978, such
bilateral donations, excluding those of USAID, amounted to just over 60,000
metric tons.
50.        Since 1977, CIDA has been financing a project called "Canadian
Assistance to WFP assisted Food-for-Work scheme in Bangladesh." This proj-
ect provides C$4 M for the construction of permanent structures in FFWP sub-
projects located in the Northwest Region and the Chittagong district south
of the Karnafuli river. Since February 1978, CIDA has engaged consultants to
assist WDB in the selection, planning, design and construction supervision of
its assisted schemes on the basis of criteria for project selection similar
to those recommended for the proposed project.
Achievements and Problems
51.       Over the period 1974/75-1977/78 some 6,000 FFWP schemes sponsored
by various agencies were undertaken, involving an input in labor of about
264 M man-days and for which around 740,000 metric tons of wheat were distri-
buted. GOB's planned target for 1978/79 provides for the completion of an
additional 2,500 schemes for which an estimated 300,000 metric tons of wheat
is expected to be distributed to meet a labor requirement of some 107 M
man-days.
52.       In 1978, food-for-work schemes of all types deployed approximately
270,000 tons of wheat with a current cif value of about US$54 M. GOB's costs
associated with these schemes, including internal transportation costs are
estimated at around US$8 M, giving a total cost of about US$62 M. Based on
prevailing wage rates of around Tk 8-9 per day, the cost of works completed
in 1978 is estimated at US$108 M, which suggests an estimated incremental
employment benefit of around US$46 M to the rural population in that year.
The area of land benefitted by flood control, drainage and irrigation schemes
undertaken during 1978 was around 1.5 M ac. However, as discussed below, in
most cases, additional expenditures are required to finance permanent struc-
tures to permit such schemes to function effectively. At present, the prin-
cipal benefit of most food-for-work schemes is in the form of the incomes
accruing to poor people with very limited alternative employment opportunities.
Realization of the considerable potential long-term benefits of food-for-work
schemes can only be achieved through complementary investments in permanent
structures. Part of these investment requirements would be met by funds
provided under the proposed project.
53.       A major constraint in maximizing the benefits from FFWP schemes
is the shortage of funds for the provision of permanent structures needed to
complement the existing earthworks, such as sluice gates, culverts and drains.
Because of the lack of culverts, newly constructed roads block drainage ways;
dugout canals cut across major rights of way without any bridge crossings;
and flood protection embankments are only partially effective due to the lack
of structures to close drainage ways, and sluices to control water levels.
Until the necessary permanent structures are installed, FFWP schemes while
successfully providing relief to the under-privileged, will have failed for
the most part to create installations of long-term economic value. Indeed,
in some cases, the failure to provide such structures may have a deleterious



-.15 -
impact on production and farm incomes as a consequence of the adverse effect
of unfinished works on the local hydrology. The proposed project would help
correct these deficiencies.
Bank Group Role in the Agriculture Sector
54.       The Bank's Hardcore Program Report of 1973, recommended, inter alia,
criteria for the selection of irrigation and flood control projects. Such
projects should: contribute to rapid increase in food production; be self-
contained or part of a phased plan; be economically viable; and incorporate
labor intensive methods. Based on these criteria, IDA has to date financed
14 projects as part of a major program in support of the agricultural and
rural development sector. At full development, several of these projects
will provide irrigation to about 626,000 ac and drainage and flood control
to a further 460,000 ac. The remaining seven projects cover the development
of agricultural extension services, agricultural research, jute cultivation,
the seeds industry, inland fishery development, the provision of grain storage
facilities and an area based rural development program.
55.       Furthermore, at Government's request, IDA is working with various
GOB agencies to help prepare a Medium-Term Agricultural Production Plan which
would address a number of issues inhibiting a more balanced and rapid growth
of the sectcr. During the preparation of the Plan, special attention will be
paid to: achieving the quickest feasible reduction in subsidies to improve
GOB's overall financial position; GOB's existing procurement system; marketing
and incentive prices for foodgrains and other important crops; adequate and
timely supply of fertilizer, diesel fuel, seeds and pesticides; improved
supply of institutional credit; better utilization of existing irrigation
systems and equipment; expanding investments in labor intensive irrigation,
drainage ancd flood control works; development of location specific HYVs
adapted to t:he cropping seasons and hydrologic conditions of Bangladesh;
strengtheninig of extension and supportive applied research; intensified and
expanded in-service training; and improved project planning and implementation.
To provide adequate and timely feedback on sectoral performance, the Plan
would include establishment of monitoring and evaluation cells within appro-
priate agencies of the Goverrnment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
56.       The proposed project was prepared by WDB, assisted by consultants
(NEDECO, Netherlands), and was appraised by a mission that visited Bangladesh
in February 1979. For purposes of appraisal, six schemes involving flood
protection, drainage, reclamation, river improvement, irrigation and submer-
sible embankments were analyzed. A report entitled "Bangladesh - Small Scale
Drainage and Flood Control Project Staff Appraisal Report," dated September 26,
1979, No. 2507c-BD is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are summarized in Annex III to this report.  Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington in September 1979; the Bangladesh delegation
was led by Mr. Mustafizur Rahman, Chairman, Bangladesh Water Development
Board.



- 16 -
Project Description
57.       The proposed project would assist in financing permanent structures
(commonly known as appurtenant structures) and improvements in earthworks in
order to render fully effective priority schemes (sub-projects) initially con-
structed under the FFWP. Currently, there are 1,565 FFWP schemes undertaken
under the WFP completed or in progress, and the number is increasing by
about 250 each year. The project would not attempt to cover all FFWP schemes
and, indeed, would be concerned only with a relatively small proportion of
them. Of the existing 1,565 sub-projects, between 40% and 50% (600-800) are
expected to require the installation of structures and of these about 500 are
in the project area. The project would finance the cost of permanent struc-
tures in about 100 to 125 high priority FFWP schemes and lead to the betterment
of about 350,000 ac of agricultural land. The project can be viewed as a
pioneer operation and would be completed within a five-year period. Given
the urgent need for investments of the type proposed WDB would be encouraged,
consistent with its absorptive capacity, to expedite the works in the interest
of an early repeater operation.
58.       The project area would cover FFWP schemes located throughout
Bangladesh with the exception of the Northwest Region and the Chittagong
District south of the Karnafuli River. The areas excluded are being supported
by a similar CIDA financed project. The wide project area will permit the
selection of sub-projects of the highest priority regardless of location.
59.       The proposed project would provide equipment and vehicles needed for
project implementation, the engagement of consultants to assist WDB in the
selection of subprojects and supervision of the design and construction of
project financed works.
60.       Sub-projects would vary widely in size and cost, averaging about an
estimated US$100 per ac benefitted. Since it would be impracticable for IDA
to appraise each individual sub-project, in view of the large number, small
size and dispersed nature of the works involved, responsibility for sub-project
appraisals would be entrusted to WDB, assisted by consultants. Sub-project
appraisals would be undertaken in accordance with standard guidelines agreed
with IDA.
Water Development Board
61.       The proposed project would be implemented through WDB.  WDB was
reconstituted in 1972 as a semi-autonomous agency within the Ministry of Power,
Water Resources and Flood Control and is responsible for providing surface
water irrigation, drainage, flood control, erosion control, town protection
and river training throughout Bangladesh. WDB is managed by a Chairman and a
five member Board covering planning, implementation, supply and services, fi-
nance and administration. Under their overall direction, day-to-day management
is provided by 11 Chief Engineers (CE), and approximately 50 Superintending
Engineers (SE) and Directors. WDB has approximately 2,000 fully professional
staff, mainly engineers, of whom 1,100 are in Dacca. Of its 6,500 technical
and accounting staff, approximately 4,000 are engaged in field assignments.



- 17 -
62.       Currently, WDB is implementing five ongoing IDA assisted projects
all of which have been subject to various degrees of delay. By mid-1977 the
extent of delays was such that IDA made strong representations to the Govern-
ment requesting that early steps be taken to improve WDB's overall efficiency.
Since then the Government has taken a number of measures aimed at streamlining
WDB's prc,cedures and improving its overall performance. There has been a
greater delegation of authority to project directors; WDB's project portfolio
has been reviewed with a view to eliminating uneconomic projects; and criteria
for the selection of future projects have been agreed with IDA. Implementation
of the five on-going IDA assisted WDB projects has also improved significantly.
Further improvements are expected to result from the implementation of the
recommenclations of a recent GOB/Bank Review Mission that completed an in-depth
review of WDB and its program earlier in 1979. 1/  Intermittent delays continue
to be experienced, but they are mainly attributable to a lack of adequate
counterpart funding by the Government. This problem is common to many devel-
opment projects in Bangladesh and was recently the subject of a special study
by the Bank. The results of the study are currently being reviewed by GOB.
Sub-project Selection Criteria and Procedures
63.       In order to ensure the technical, economic and financial viability
of sub-projects WDB, assisted by consultants, would select on-going or com-
pleted FFWP schemes in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA (Section 3.02
of the draft DCA). These criteria would require, inter alia, that the sub-
projects:
(a)  have been designed originally by WDB and constructed
under FFWP;
(b) have been subjected to a recent technical, economic
and financial appraisal by WDB and its consultants,
including an evaluation of the soils and hydrology
of the subproject area;
(c) would benefit at least 1,000 ac and/or 500 farm families,
with at least 70% of these families operating, as owners
or tenants, total holdings of less than 3 acres;
(d) would cost not more than US$150 per acre to complete in
direct costs (except with IDA's approval);
(e) would yield an economic rate of return of not less than
25% on project financed investments;
(f) would be completed before December 31, 1984; and
(g) would have no serious adverse environmental impact (in
this regard particular attention would be paid to the
potential effects of the project on fish production).
1/   Bangladesh:  Joint Document of the Government of Bangladesh and World
Bank-Review of Bangladesh Water Development Board. Report No. 2327-BD,
April 2, 1979.



- 18 -
64.       To provide a further check on the viability of sub-projects financed,
the WDB appraisal reports on sub-projects involving total direct expenditures in
excess of US$700,000 would be subject to review and approval by IDA. It is ex-
pected that less than 10% of the sub-projects selected will fall into this
category.
65.       WDB activities are organized into four zones, each of which is admin-
istered by a Zonal Chief Engineer (ZCE). The project area covers three WDB
Zones. Sub-projects for completion would be proposed by WDB's ZCEs acting on
the advice of their Superintendent Engineers (SE) and Executive Engineers (EE).
Before making his recommendations, the ZCE would consult with the appropriate
District Commissioner in charge of Administration in the area involved. The
recommendations of the ZCE would be reviewed by the WDB Flood Control Call
(FCC), its Chief Engineer (CEFCC) and the consultants. Following an initial
review, the CEFCC would commission an appraisal of the sub-project. Appraisal
of sub-projects would be carried out by staff of the FCC, the consultants and
the Zone in close collaboration with the local administration, including Thana
and Union Council officials, particularly with regard to the social and organ-
izational aspects of each sub-project. The appraisal of sub-projects would be
in accordance with a standard set of guidelines agreed with IDA and the
Appraisal Report for each sub-project would conform to the format agreed
under these guidelines. Final design of each sub-project would be carried out
by the Design and Research Branch (DRB) of WDB at Dacca in the case of the
more complex sub-projects; or, by Zonal staff with the approval of DRB in the
case of simpler sub-projects. Responsibility for the execution of sub-projects
based on approved designs and cost estimates would be vested in the ZCE within
whose jurisdiction the sub-project is located. Copies of sub-project appraisal
reports together with designs and cost estimates (direct costs including
full-time supervision) would be sent to the Bank's Resident Mission in Dacca
for information, except in the case of sub-projects described in paragraph
64 above for which approval of the Association would be required.
66.       At the Zonal level, line responsibility descends from the ZCE to
SEs and through them to EEs. Each ZCE is responsible for 100 to 400 tech-
nical personnel and numerous non-technical support staff. Typically, the
SE's jurisdiction encompasses a geographic area of a major project. The EEs
have geographic responsibilities which may encompass parts of large projects
or the whole of small projects. Generally, WDB engineers are underemployed --
a situation confirmed by the recent joint Government/Bank review referred
to in paragraph 63 above. Consequently, there is no shortage of trained
personnel. EEs have authority to accept tenders for work costing up to
Tk 500,000 and supplies of up to Tk 200,000; make local purchases of survey
equipment, construction equipment components, spare parts, etc. of up to
Tk 1 M; and, rent offices and godown accommodation of up to Tk 2,500/month.
Commensurably greater thresholds of authority are delegated to SEs and ZCEs.
67.       The CEFCC would be the principal IDA contact and would be respon-
sible for correspondence with IDA, including the submission of quarterly
progress reports. These would include the status of sub-projects -- proposed,
initially reviewed, appraised, designed, approved, under implementation and
completed. The CEFCC would also be responsible for the preparation of with-
drawal applications for disbursement under the proposed credit.



- 19 -
Technical Assistance
68.       WDB would employ consultants to assist its Technical Unit, inter
alia, in the selection, design and supervision of construction of sub-projects.
A total oi 352 man-monLas (178 expatiiate and 174 local) of consultants'
services, amounting to US$2.7 M would be required to cover the five-year
project implementation period.  Costs for consultants' services have been
estimated at an average monthly billing rate of US$8,800, based on recent
experience in Bangladesh. WDB's Technical Unit is currently being assisted by
consultanl:s (Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Ltd., Canada) in the implementa-
tion of a similar on-going CIDA assisted project (paragraph 50 above). CIDA
is processing a proposal for financing, on a grant basis, the consultant
services *required under the proposed project. CIDA and WDB would reach
agreement no later than January 1, 1980 on the appointment of a consultant
firm whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA). A reasonable number
of sub-projects have already been identified and, in some cases, WDB has
prepared the required preliminary designs. CIDA would make arrangements with
their existing consultants to ensure that a sufficient number of designs are
updated and completed so tlaat construction would commence in the 1980/81
season. CIDA would also finance, on a grant basis, the cost of vehicles
(US$60,000) required for use by the consultants.
Training
69.       To further develop local expertise and experience in the selection,
design and supervision of sub-projects, so as to enable WDB staff to under-
take future projects of a similar nature on their own, the consultants would
provide on-the-job trainin,g to WDB staff who are assigned to work under the
proposed project. Particular emphasis would be placed on the improvement of
construclion methods, including simple compaction techniques and quality of
work. The cost of trainirLg (US$50,000) would be financed by CIDA on a grant
basis.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
70.       In common with many developing countries, Bangladesh has difficulty
in finding funds for the routine maintenance of public infrastructure. For
the continued success of sub-projects financed under the project, there-
fore, a large part of routine maintenance would have to be provided by project
beneficiaries themselves. Most maintenance would involve the input of labor
to repair earthworks and to clean drains and canals. Labor is not in short
supply and Local Councils (local government units) would be able to mobilize
sufficie!nt labor for maintenance on a voluntary basis or, at worst, at less
than market cost -- possibly through an extension of programs such as FFWP to
help meet the cost of maintenance or rehabilitation. The balance of main-
tenance costs (repair and maintenance of structures) would be met directly by
WDB through provisions made in its annual budget. The total costs of such
maintenince at 1979 prices for the 350,000 ac of subprojects to be completed
under the project are estimated at about US$300,000 annually. This is equiv-
alent to less than half a percent of WDB's current annual development budget.



- 20 -
71.       GOB's policy, as stated in its Thana Irrigation Programme (TIP)
Manual, is to gradually transfer to Local Councils responsibility for the
operation and maintenance for schemes such as those to be assisted under
the proposed project. While this policy should provide a more efficient
and practical framework for meeting the O&M requirements of such schemes,
it will, nevertheless, take time for Local Councils to develop to the
stage where they could be expected to discharge such obligations fully and
effectively. Until this capability is developed, primary responsibility
for O&M for the sub-projects would be vested in WDB, with GOB providing
adequate funds for such purposes. However, in order to encourage Local
Councils to assume responsibility for O&M, WDB would give priority in the
selection of sub-projects to those for which the respective Local Councils
had expressed a willingness to undertake adequate responsibility for O&M and
are prepared to make the necessary budgetary and manpower allocations for
such purposes (Section 4.02 of the draft DCA).
72.       The GOB/Bank Review of WDB referred to in paragraph 62 above
examined, inter alia, the issue of strengthening the O&M arrangements for WDB
schemes and recommended the establishment of two internal task forces to
examine ways and means of improving the Board's implementation capacity,
including relieving the Member, Implementation of O&M responsibilities and
establishing a new position of Member, O&M, with associated staff arrangements.
GOB would establish not later than January 31, 1980, two task forces on the
basis of terms of reference already agreed with IDA and request UNDP's assist-
ance for the financing of technical assistance in the execution of the assign-
ments of both task forces (see Supplemental Letter to the draft DCA).
Implementation Schedule
73.       Project implementation would be spread over a five-year period
1980-1984. The first year would be devoted to procurement of the required
equipment and vehicles, selection and appointment of consultants, and review
of sub-projects. The planning and detailed design of sub-projects selected
for assistance would commence around January 1980. Annual detailed programs
with budgets for the forthcoming year would be forwarded to IDA from March
1980 annually until project completion. The construction of sub-projects
would be started in October 1980 and be completed by June 1984. It is envi-
saged that the proposed project would be the first phase of a program to
assist GOB in the provision of permanent structures to complete various
earthworks constructed under the FFWP. The preparation of a Phase II project,
depending on the successful implementation of Phase I, would commence in
mid-1983.
Project Costs
74.       The total project cost, including taxes and duties (US$2.6 M), is
estimated at US$35.0 M, of which US$14.6 million or 40% would be foreign
exchange. If sunk costs were added, the total project costs would be about
US$47.0 M. The cost estimates for imported vehicles and equipment are
based on unit prices in recent contract awards and on international prices.
Costs of civil works (permanent structures) are based on recent experience in
Bangladesh. Costs for expatriate consulting services (178 man-months) esti-
mated at an average billing rate of US$8,800 per man-month are based on recent



- 21 -
experience in Bangladesh. Monitoring and evaluation costs have been included
in engineering and administration costs. Base costs have been adjusted to
mid-1979 prices. Price contingencies are based on a projected annual infla-
tion rate oE 10% in Bangladesh and 6% internationally.
Project Financing
75.        The proposed IDA credit of US$25.0 M (covering 77% of total project
costs (excluding taxes and duties) would finance 100% of foreign exchange
costs and about 60% of local costs. The balance of project costs would be
financed by a grant of US$3 M equivalent from CIDA and US$7 M (Tk 108.5 M
equivalent, including taxes and duties) by GOB through annual budgetary
allocations. WDB would agree with IDA its draft proposals for inclusion in
the Annual Development Program, for the project before submission to GOB for
approval. To ensure the provision of project budgetary funds, it would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council had approved the Project Proforma 1/ (Section 5.01(a) of the
draft DCA).
Procurement
76.       Civil Works (US$25.0 M including contingencies).  These works
(permanent structures) would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding (ICB) because they comprise small, simple, labor-intensive and
scattered works. In addition, construction would be subject to seasonal
weather and flood interruptions. The works would be carried out under con-
tracts let through local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with pro-
cedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Small steel gates required for the
many scattered drainage regulators and control gates, totalling about
US$100,000, would be varied in height and width. They would be designed and
built as each individual subproject is approved during the project implemen-
tation period and, as such, cannot be consolidated into a large order. They
would, thus, not be suitable for ICB and would be procured through LCB or
force accotnt, whichever is more economic and efficient. WDB workshops are
capable of manufacturing such gates at competitive prices. If undertaken by
force accotnt, the quarterly statements of expenditures would be certified and
sent to IDii for reimbursement. Details of payrolls as well as vouchers for
materials and supplies would be kept in the EE's offices for inspection by
supervision missions.
77.       Equipment, Vehicles and Spare Parts (US$0.7 million).  These would
be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A prefer-
ence limited to 15% of the cif price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever
is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Small items of equipment costing less than US$100,000 for each contract, which
are either urgently needed or are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased
through normal Government procedures, on the basis of comparing prices from
no less than three suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to a total of
US$300,000. On completion of the project, the vehicles and equipment would be
used for maintenance or moved to other projects.
1/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for
the hiring of staff and release of project funds.



- 22 -
78.       Documents for all civil works contracts estimated to cost above
US$100,000 and documents for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost above
US$100,000 would be sent to IDA for review before bids were invited and later
before award. All other contracts would be awarded in accordance with normal
Government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. A summary of the bid
evaluations with the contracts would be sent to IDA before disbursement is
sought,
Disbursements
79.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a) 90% of civil works expenditures;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and construction materials;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured equipment, vehicles, spare parts and construction
materials procured under ICB; and
(d) 70% of local expenditures for other equipment, vehicles, spare
parts and construction materials procured locally without ICB.
Full documentation for all expenditures would be submitted to IDA in support
of withdrawal applications, except for force account where a statement of work
performed, certified by the consultants would be required before submission to
IDA. Documents for force account expenditures would be retained by WDB for
review by IDA supervision missions. All documents would have been checked
and certified by the consultants. It is expected that the credit would be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1985, i.e., about one year after project
completion.
Project Revolving Fund
80.       Inadequate counterpart funding by GOB constitutes a major constraint
inhibiting the successful implementation of a number of priority development
programs, including IDA assisted projects in Bangladesh. The effects of GOB's
current financial constraints are pervasive and consequently, Bangladesh has
not been able to realize the full benefit of the significant amounts of
financial assistance currently being made available by a number of external
aid agencies. There is, therefore, a need to resort to some pre-financing of
certain project expenditures on a selective basis if the implementation of
priority programs that are critical to Bangladesh's overall long-term devel-
opment is not to be unduly delayed. It is against this background that a
Project Revolving Fund (Fund) to be funded in an amount of Tk 8.55 m
(US$500,000 by IDA and Tk 800,000 by GOB) is proposed.
81.       The proposed Fund would be operated by WDB and would be maintained
in a commercial bank, which is satisfactory to IDA. The respective contribu-
tions by IDA and GOB reflect the proportion of expenditures to be financed by
IDA and GOB in withdrawals under the Fund. The Fund would be used to finance:
(a) civil works carried out by contractors; and (b) purchase of equipment,



- 23 -
vehicles, spare parts and construction materials procured locally without ICB.
It is for expenditures of this nature that local currency financing is often
difficult. Contracts for materials, vehicles and equipment obtained through
ICB as well as force account would not be financed from the Fund. Initial
advances from the account would be made, as necessary, and at the discretion
of WDB, to eac. designated ZCE responsible for sub-project implementation
following the sub-project appraisal and approval procedures discussed in
paragraph 65 above. Each ZCE would submit monthly to WDB a statement of
expenditure supported by appropriate documentation. A consolidated return
would be prepared by WDB and submitted to IDA together with a withdrawal
application for expenditures financed from the Fund. The withdrawal applica-
tion would 'be supported with evidence that GOB's share of these costs had
already been paid into the Fund. Quarterly withdrawal applications for the
replenishment of the Fund would be supported by detailed documentation and
monthly statements of account prepared by the Commercial Bank operating the
Fund account. The monthly statements would give details of all withdrawals
and deposits as well as the opening and closing balances of the account. All
disbursements from the Fund dlisallowed by IDA would be met by GOB and further
disbursements by IDA into the Fund would be suspended until such amount had
been deposited into the Fund by GOB.
82.       The operation of the Fund would be in accordance with procedures
agreed with IDA. The Consultants would be required to check and certify all
statements of expenditures prior to submission to IDA for replenishment of the
Fund. As EL condition of credit effectiveness, GOB would establish a Project
Revolving Fund and deposit in the Fund an initial amount of Tk 800,000 (Section
5.01(b) of the draft DCA). GOB would employ an independent auditor to audit
the Fund st:atements of expenditures and supporting documentation. The auditor
would produce a report within four weeks of the end of each fiscal quarter. A
copy of each report would be sent to IDA promptly for review (Section 4.01(c)
of the drafEt DCA).
Cost Recovery
83.       The sub-projects to be financed under the proposed project have
traditionally been regarded in Bangladesh as social investments and costs have
accordingly not been recovered from beneficiaries. Drainage and flood
control sc'hemes do not confer equal benefits on all land within such schemes
and consequently, imposition of a flat tax may prove inequitable. On the
other hand, a more equitablea tax system related to accrued benefits may prove
too complicated and difficu'Lt to administer. Furthermore, the beneficiaries
under the proposed project would comprise farming communities in the rural
areas whose average family incomes are well below subsistence levels. While
net farm incomes would increase by 50% to 100% (paragraph 87) the net increases
in per capita incomes will be modest (varying in the case of the sub-projects
reviewed during appraisal from about US$20 to US$30 equivalent per annum). In
the circumstances, no specific measures for the recovery of project costs are
proposed.
Monitoring and Evaluation
84.       Monitoring of the project's progress would be through quarterly and
annual progress reports prepared by the CEFCC in accordance with formats



- 24 -
agreed with IDA. The reports would include all relevant data on physical and
financial progress of the project together with reasons for deviations, if
any, from targets.
85.       Evaluation of the project would be done by estimating the direct and
indirect benefits resulting from the project as well as the socio-economic
characteristics of the project beneficiaries. The data for evaluation would
be obtained through a few selected in-depth interviews in selected sub-project
areas as well as through canvassing representative samples of project benefi-
ciaries. A benchmark survey would be conducted about one year before project
completion in the sub-project areas to establish the pre-project situation.
Two follow-up surveys would be conducted after completion of the project works
-- the first after one year and the second after four years. The surveys
would include information on cropping patterns, yields, cultivation practices,
production and employment levels, as well as income levels for the various
classes of project beneficiaries. The evaluation studies and surveys would be
undertaken by well qualified local consulting firms or research institutions
selected in consultation with IDA. Prior to January 1, 1981, WDB would
prepare and submit to IDA for concurrence a detailed proposal for evaluation
of the project impact (Section 3.05(d) of the draft DCA). The progress
reports and the data from evaluation studies and surveys would form, in part,
the basis for preparation of the Project Completion Report by WDB.
Environmental Impact
86.       None of the sub-projects financed are expected to have any signi-
ficant impact on public health. Flood control measures eliminate the benefits
of the nutritional effect of silt deposits caused by annual floods, but the
damage caused by the annual flooding to homes, vegetable gardens, poultry and
cattle is worse than the benefits of the silt deposit which can be replaced by
use of fertilizers. Disturbance to fish culture by bunds and embankments is a
potential hazard and would be specifically investigated as part of WDB sub-
project appraisal.
Economic Justification
87.       The economic rates of return for each of the six typical sub-
projects covered during project appraisal range from 19% to 126% when no
account is taken of previous investments and from 17% to 78% when sunk costs
are taken into account. The overall economic rate of return from investments
to be made under the proposed project (treating previous investments as sunk
costs) is estimated to be over 25%. The project's principal direct benefi-
ciaries would be the population living in the sub-project areas who would
benefit directly from increased farm incomes and an increase in employment
opportunities. The proposed project would also result in significant in-
creases in annual foodgrain (mainly paddy) production, in the sub-project
areas ranging from 35% to 50% over current levels. While incremental increases
in net farm incomes would vary by sub-project and among individual farmers, in
general, net farm incomes would increase by 50% to 100%. Since the major
effect of the project would be an increase in the productivity of cultivable
land, the distribution of benefits would reflect current land ownership
patterns in Bangladesh. The criteria for the selection of sub-projects (see
paragraph 63 above) have been designed to ensure that the project would



-25 -
be mainly directed towards the development of smaller schemes with the aim
of ensuring that a reasonable percentage of the benefits would accrue to small
farmers. The project would increase employment opportunities in the rural
areas, induced, primarily by changes in land use, increases in cropping inten-
sity and improvement in crop yields. Peak family labor availability is
estimated at 40 man-days/month. Since most family labor would be adequate in
meeting monthly labor requirements for the majority of small farms, most of
the benefits associated with increased employment would accrue to the partici-
pating farm families. Demand f'or hired labor would also increase on larger
farms (3 ac and above) thereby creating additional employment opportunities
for landless and sub-marginal farmers. At full development in 1985, and after
allowing for a projected increase in population in the project area, the
proportion of below subsistence level households would decline.
Risks
88.       Little risk is attached to the construction of civil works under
the proposed project because W)B's field establishments are well staffed with
qualified engineers most of whom are currently under-employed. However, there
is a risk that the subsequent operation and maintenance of sub-projects may
not be carried out satisfactorily. While the arrangements proposed in para-
graphs 81-83 above are intended to minimize this risk, it would, nevertheless,
be necessary for both GOB and IDA to pay particular attention to this issue
during project implementation with a view to taking appropriate remedial mea-
sures as may be necessary. The operation of the proposed Project Revolving
Fund would involve risks primarily through its use for expenditures that are
not reimbursable under the proposed credit. The consultants would be required
to check and certify all statements of expenditure under the Fund prior to the
submission to IDA for replenishment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Developmeent Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distrilbuted to the Executive Directors separately.
90.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional condit:ions of effectiveness of the Credit would be
(i) the approval of the Project Proforma by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (paragraph 75); and (ii) the establishment of the
Project Revolving Fund and the deposit by GOB into the Fund of an initial
amount of Tk 800,000 (paragraph 82).
91.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
92.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
September 26, 1979



-27-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3k
_   NCVDZ5B - MI"W. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REzrENCE GRoups (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IAN.ADKS                                               La
LAND AREA (TROUSAND SQ. IN.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIKATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL     101.1                                MONsT URZCET    GEOGRArHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   l970 lb ESTIMATE /b       RECION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP L.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0        60.0      90.0           167.4      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER WITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EI^UIVALENT)      ..          ..       28.0            65.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, HID-YEARt
(MILLICINS)                       53.9        70.8      82.7
URBAN POI'ULATION (PERCET OF TOTAL) 4.8          6.4       9.2            12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER So  KM.                      374.0       492.0     574.0            85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ, KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0       730.0     8t8.0           322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PRCENT)
0-14 Y3S.                         U.3         46.4      46.2            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YhS.                        52.5         5L.0      51.1            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3i.2        2.6       2.6             2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATIIN GROVWT RATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              t.7         2.8       2.1 /j          2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                               ..         6.2       7.4             4.2        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BflITH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.8        50.3      49.5            45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.2        22.9      28.1            17.3       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTIONK RATE             3.5         3.1        ..             3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       .        345.6     655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WE)    ..             ..       4.7            13.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUtRITION
INDEX Of PFOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            106.2       100.0      93.7            95.6       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY o0
CALORIES (PERCeMT OF
REQUIRZYNTS)                    89.0        89.0      93.0            91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTElNS (GRAlS PER DAT)          42.6          ..      58.5            49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMM AND PULSE         9.2         ..        8.0            12.6        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NORTALITY RATE       ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          7.5
HZALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YARus)    38.7        43.3      45.0            43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAN)                              ..          ..     140.0            99.5       102.7        82.5
ACCESS 70 SAFE WATER (PERCUT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        45.0      56.0            30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        13.0      22.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..        47.0      61.0            17.2        14.1        18.2
ACCESS 1Q0 EXCRETA DISPOSAL (FPEXUrT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.0            15.7        16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0            66.9        65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             2.5         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0 /h   7600.0/h 11000.0          8830.8    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   11000O.0 /b  72030.0Zh 56070.0         8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          110(0.0 A   8120.0 /A 5200.0           1624.5      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               .            .        ...                      183.3       278.4
RURAL                                                                            1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..               ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         5.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        .                ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               .            .        ..
URBAN                               .            .        ..                         1.8,        2.3
RURAL                               .            .        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
MTTAL                                           . .        .                        25.9        28 3
URBAN       3_ .                                         3.0
RURAL                               .            .        ...                        8.7        l0.3



-28-
ANNEX I
RAN6LAPDES  - SOCAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
REFPUNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAZES
UllCLUDESH                                             /
- MOST RECENT EST1IMATE)
SALE        SANI     NEXT RICHER
ffOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOKE
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTI}ATE Lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENDOLLlElT RATIOS
PRIMARY-    TOTAL                 47.0        61.0       73.0            59.1       62.9         75.8
PUUl                 26.0        42.0      51.0             38.4       45.9        67.9
SECOIDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0        19.0      25.0             19.9       14.4         17.7
FUMLE                 1.0         8.0      11.0              9.9        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF S3CUSAR)  1.0           1.0        ..              1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-T5ACER RATIO
PRDAR                               *-        49.0      50.0             38.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           ..        26.0      24.0             23.5       19.8        23.5
ADULS LITERACY RAWE (PIRCUT)        21.6           ..      23.0            35.6       36.7         63.7
CONlUIHPTIjOI
PASSING  GAt   PER pSTWUSTUB
POPULATION                          ..         0.4        0.4 LI          2.2        3.1          7.2
EADIO RCEIVES PEt TQUSA4D
POPULATION                           .         6.0        ..             14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RtcESivs PER TEUSAD
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..               ..        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPZR ("DAILY GENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATiON PER
TWUSAND POPuLATION                    *-           *        5.0             6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEIA ANNUAL ATStiDANCz PER CAPITA   ..          ..         ..              ..        1.4          1.6
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0    24500.0   26200.0
'EKAI  (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.5       17.0            21.3       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0        86.0       78.0            62.8       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.3         3.5        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEN1)
TOTAL                               36.0         34.6      34.4            35.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                58.7         55.8      55.3            52.4       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                              11.4         11.8      12.1            15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONO4IC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3          1.4       1.4             1.3         1.3         1.3
INCQME DISTIRUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INOME
RECZIVED By
HIGHEST 5 PRCENT Or WOUSESOLDS   18.3 /        16.7 /1     ..            18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOuSEHOLDS  44.5 k      42.3 <       ..            42.8       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PIRCGST 0r NOUSESOLDS    6.9  k       7.9 L      ..             7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT 0O  HOUSESOLDS   17.9 7k    19.6 /1      *-            19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUP8
ESTItATED ASSOLUTE POVETY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PEl CAPITA)
URAI                                ..          ..      110.0            80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       90.0            67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       29.0            39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATICSN BOLW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       61.0            50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                .           ..      70.0            44.6       48.0         36.7
Not av*llable
Not applicabla.
NOTES
/a    The Adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate  between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Incom  ($280 or Les  per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita.
1976);  /f  The 1970-75 growth rate is aboormlly low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass populatioa movement across the borders during chat period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.82 per snnue; L Av. 1961-65; Jh Regiscered, not all practicing n Lche
country; A Govt. establishmnts only; /I 1972; /k 1963-64; /1 1966-67.
September. 1978



SIAn' The.0 -.ted grou.p averages for each indicator cc. Ppusplation-weightsd geometric means, excluding the, sxtreas valuas of the indicator and the most
populated -ountry in each group. Coverage of countries Sanas the indicators depends on availahility of data an.d is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group aveages for lapital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal. housing. income distribution and poverty are
si.ple populatio-weighted geooetric meioa without 0.,.a exclusion of eatrame values.
LANS ARIA (thousand sq. km:'                                                                Population par hospital bad - total, urban, end rural - Pop.lation  (total,
Toa     ..Ttlsrface atr- comprising land are  aend inland waters,                    urban, end rsural) divided by their respective number of hospital bads
Agri-l-rutO    - ost recent: estimate of --icuslturac          -o sau.d tesporarily          available in public end private general '. specialized hospital atid re-
o er ye-mantlp  for crop,,, pastures, market aod kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are estmol. shments permanently stsffed by
lie fallou.                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~at least mone physician.  Establishments providing principally custcdial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and nedi-
IS4P PER CAPI1TA__LCS)  - GNP per capita -etimates at current earket Prices,                   cal centers not permanenitly staffed by a physician (hut by a medical as-
calc1lted by su.-oo.so   method aSo World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                      distent, nurse, aidwifs. etc.) which offer in-patient accomodation and
1960, 1970, and L977 data,                                                                 provide a. limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions ser hospital bad - Total number of admissions to or discharges
tNERGYC'  ONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual Consumption of .oatrcial **..gy                       from hospitals dlividd by the  umushr of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gao-
thermal elootrloity) it kilograms, of Coal equivalent per capita.                     ROUSING
Av ...a. sloe of ho..sehold             p.,,ns0C  houstho1d) - total. urbac. and coral-
POPULATION A.'D VITAL STATISEITS                                                              A housshold consists of a group af individuals who shore living quarters
Total pop.lation. old--nv      'AILl111m) - As of July 1; if not available.                 sod their main meals.  A hoarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-pea       cimarem; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the hou.ashoid foe Statistical p..poase.  Statistical deinitions of house-
TcbaopopE-ulation (pearcen:    _total) - Ratio of urban tm total popula-                     hold vary.
tiers; diffe-ent defiafttous, of urban areas may affect comtparability                  Aversas number of pasrons ner room - total. uebao. and rural - Average nun-
of data song  -cutries,                                                                   har of persons per room is all, urban, and rural occpied conentional
PoouL.t-ic9i.                                                                               dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclud* ono-premaeent. Structures and
Per  s. ik.,- Mid-year population per squats kilometer (100 hectares)                       unoccupied parts.
of total area,                                                                           horses to electricity (p.trslt of detilirgs) - total, urban, and rural -
Per  S__. lo.ariyl~ture land - Computed as abov. f or agricultural lend                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only,                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population A&. s-truct-ure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired (65 pears and over) an percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adiusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound an,nual                     Primary school - total, _nd femuale - Total and female enrollment of all ages
grouth colon of total and s,rbacn mid-year populations f or 1950-60.                       at the primary level as percentages, of respectively primar   schoo-age
1960-70. and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normaolly includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rae(e   hsan)- Annual live births pet thoua..nd of                               different lengths of primary aduoa.tiou; for countries wtth universal eda-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages endinig ins i960 and                     cation enrollment may enceeod 155 percent mince smom  pupils are below or
1970 and live-year average, erding in 1975 for most recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate__(per tho,usand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary School - total, end female - Comoputed as above; Secondary educa-
veer population; tn--YoAr arithmstlc averages anding in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at leagt four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average onrding in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructious for pupils
Cron  recodotio  rae  .Average number of daughtar   wm,an will bear                   .usally of 12 to 17 years of age; coirresp-onden  courses are generally
to her uuma.o-      odcI   v  period if she mpapriances present age-                       excluded.
specif 1c fertility rate,; nusclly five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollet  pren   f aendary) - Vocational institutions in-
i970, And 1975.                                                                             ud tchia.1  industrial, or other programs which operate independently
tuniCy oiolano             ,s.amnual (thousa.nds) - AmnuaI numb.r of                         or as deparcets..t  of secondary i-tritations.
uc-eptors of birth-con;rol devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - crimAry. end secondary - Total students enro1lld in
planniog Program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers inL the  0cre-
Family panln.. gs-oo-ra  (perc-t of married wm)-Pranasof                                     sponding levels.
-arild soomn of child-bearing  age (11-44 years) who ass birth-control                 Adult literacy race (parcent) - Literate adults (able to read and writs) as
devices to all married women in sass, age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 1) years and ove.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONRUMPTION
IndeIo offo  poutonpr capita (1970-100) - Index nmuser of per                             PassengercOars (per thousand Population) -Passenger cars comprise motor cars
-apita a.noal production of all food commeodities.                                       sea ting less than tight parsons ; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of osiories (percent of resuirseant.) - Computed from,                   vehicle..
ene rgy equivalent of set food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand Population) - all types of receivers f or radio
per day..  Available supplies comprise domastic production, imports laes                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
erporto. and ohasges 00 stock.  Net Supplies exclude animal foed. seeds,                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wan in
quanities used 1n food processing, and losses in distnibution.  Re-                      effect; date for rcret years may not be Comparable since most countries
q,iraenert. wote estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished Licensing.
sal activity and health Considering environmental toemprature, body                     TV receivers (per thouaand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
.eights, age And nsx distributi... of population, and allowing 10 per-                     pubiic per thousand popalation; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in counu-
coot toy. .n..e at household level,                                                        tries and in ye.ar  when registration of TV sets was it effect.
Per capi~t. ~suplyfprti(aes rd)- Protein content of per                                    ewpp r crclation  (par thoumand population) - Shows ths average ccuc
capit a ct sapply oi fnod per day.  Pecupyo   odisdfnda                                     ino   dalygneral interest neweppe'.defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requiremeorto fur all countries established by UTSDA provide for                   cation. devoted primarily to recording gnorsal news.  It is o.nsidered to
o alicum ul    Woc   a;0o grams of total protein Per day and 20 glama                      be "daily" If it appears at least tour times a seek.
of animal aod pulse Protein, of which 10 greado  should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance por capita Per pear - Pased asn the number of tickets
Those standards ore lover than those of 75 greass of total protein and                     sold during the year, Occluding admissions to drive-in cinereas and mobile
23 oroen of  nimai pr-tein As an average for the world, Propose.d by                       unit..
FAl in the Third Worild food Survey.
Per  .aPita pr-tain suppl.y from animal and pulse - Proteini supply of food              UMPLOTSMN
de-ived from  animals ,sd pulses in grass per day.                                      Totallabor force (thou..ands) -fnoialactive persoos. including ornd
Child (ags  i-a   mortalo,y rate  (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unempined but ocxcluding housewives. stadects, etc.  Definil
004 in Age group 1-4 -rars, to children in this age grsoup.                                tione in various countries are not comparable.
Femal  (Par ...t) -  sea1e laker force om per-ntcge of total iahrr forc.
PMLATH                                                                                     Agtriculture (percent) - Labor force L. farmintg, forestry. hunting and fishing
Lifo~ enetnya   it  (years) - Average number of yeare of life                                as percentage of total labor force.
remining at bortch;  -unally five-year averages ending  in 1960. 1970.                 Intdustry, (percnt) - Labor fror  in mining.  to-trn-tin. manufacturing and
And 1975.                                                                                  electricity.  water and gas -as Percentage of total La.bnr force.
Infant  -otAlity rate ('er thonnand) - Annual dacthe of infants under                     Participation rate (percent) - total,- "le, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per tisouand ILiv   birhts.                                                'enale labor forc  aSo p.r.ectag.s of the i, r-sp-ttos populations.
Acceos to safe .uter (pearcent of PoPulation) - total. uroein, ad rural -                     These are  niD's adjusted participation rates reflectingag-c
Number of people (total, urban, end rural) with reasonable ...ceas to                      structure of the populatico. ond 1ung time trend.
safe w-ter supply (lotiudes treated surface waters or antreated but                     E-onmic depnden-v ratio - Ratio of populartn order 15 and 65 And over to
uncontamlnated water sach as that from protected boreheles, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-hi peace.
and saoitacy veils) as percentages of their respectIve populationa.
Oa an arbam area a Pablic fountain or standpost locatedL not sore                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than il0 -terer   from n houise may be considered as being within rea-                  Paerentage of private income (both ic cash and bind) received by richest 5
somabie acceso of that house.  Sn rural areas reasonable eccess would                      percent. richest 20 Percent, poorest 20 percent. end poorest hi perCent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do sot h-ave to                       of households.
spend a di.prop.rtlao.st part af the day In fetching the fanily'e
water needs.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acces I  eareradlaosa  (prcen  ofpoplatin)     toal,urban. and           Estimated absolute poverty income lev_el  US,' per capita) - urban sand rural-
rur.1 -  acbet of p-ple (tota, urban, and  -rura) served bysaceeca.                          Absolute povecty i-ncoe level is that ictan  level below  which a. ni..ln
dIs1posal A. p-enetages of their respective populatioss.  Excr'eta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential ron-food requirements  is not
(10000-! no, itrlode the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable. 
,re--ot. of huma  a--tec  and wt-acebywa--r-nn   system                                 Etsimated relative po.vert, incom   lev-l (US$) per Capita) - urban  and rural1
,r the use of 710 prIieis and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level lees thas one-third
Poooirpcpu6railan - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal incomet of the country.
phi ecocuon qualifled foom a medical school at onivar-oty level.                        Estimated peoou.lsti   below  nuv-rty Lsotma lee  ienet -purbas end corl 
Po_ltonpr  usioptrson - Population divided by nonber of                               Percent of population (urban and raral) who are eithe'r "absolute poor" or
pr-trlclng male And fenale graduate marcs, practical nurses, and                           "relative poor" whichever, is greeter.
Ecnoonoic asd Social Sacs DivlioiOe
Economic Antalysis and Projections Department



-30-.
ANINEX I
iAmosmt  in millions of~ U.S. dollarsa
Actual                         Estimated          1960-   1965-    1973-            AV.6
AV. 1967-69  1972/73  1974175 176719/8                                 1965    1970       1978            _979 1974/75 19-77/78
NATTCGIAL ACC0UNTS
Ito Constant 1972-1973 Prices   Ex~change Rate             hiver5   AnnulGrwh  ae                As Percent of GIYI
,rosi: Domesti'c Product           6,1        ,3        ,1          ,.                 .33              4.        .         .1           98.5   101.8   lolAi
1,aiius from Terms of Trade (.)       89          -     -117         -148                -88                                               1.5    -1.8    -1.1
7ro.~~~s ~~s~estic Income   6TThT    si~~~~~~~  ~;3~~   7.10         i774-5            5.6      2.5       5.8           100.0   100.0   100.0
import (inc]. NFS)                   879       747       703          506                791           20.6      6.8       0.7            14.4    11.0    10.2
Exports   1   import capacity)    598           369       197         243                315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
Resource Gap                        2781       378       506         2-63              _464.6                                                       7*9      T
Consumption Expenditures           5,66      5,817    6,404         6,764              7,521            5.7      3.6       5.2            92.9   100.1    97.1
nvostment    ' ~(mncl. stocks)    714     394       499         660                700            13.3      8.8      12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                     433         16        .6         343               2?2             4.3    10.0       72.0             6.8    -0.1       2.9
National Savings                     416         32        10         378                279            8.7    20.5       56.3             7.1      0.2      3.6
MRCIIANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                              As Percent of Total
:Mpor's
Capital goods                        ..      100       135          227               318              ,        ..      22.9              ..     16.8    23.5
Intermediate goods (l.ffuels)       ..       176       386.        270                459                       ..      21.9              ..    30.4    34.1
P'esand related materials
of' which.  Petroleum             ..        23       155         141                166              .        ..      48.5              ..    10.0    1      .3
Consumption goods                            428       726       ~                    406                       ..      Z..                     42.8      3.1
Totfal Merch. Imorts (elf)         35r7      727    1.402          865              1,349                               12.2                   100.0   100.0
Exrports
P'rimar-y products (exl. fuels)     ..       145       119         220                203              .        ..       7.0              ..    40.9    40.8
-:elsansd related materials
of which: Petroleum
'4anufactured god                    .       195       239         240                294              .        ..       8.5              ..    59.1    59.2
Ital March. Exports (fob)  '~~~ri   ~     **~3'0      -z0                 477.9                                                     100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border Trase
M4erchandise Trade Indices                      Aeage 197,2-73   170
Export Price Index               -61--    10            3          118                137..                     .        6.5
Irm,ort Price Index                 52       100       215         189                ISO.                      .      12.5
:rms of Trade Index               118       100        62          62                 76              .        .      -5.6
Exports Volume index               148       100        s0         115                107              .        .        1.5
,IALJE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange Rates                Average Aninual lrowth Rates         A: Percent of Total
Agr cuiture                    3,542    3,403    3,712          4,020              4.318              .        ..       4.8            59        59       57
IusrariMining              420       42         66          582                642              .       ..       9.2              7         7        8
ler--ice               ~~~~~~ ~~~~2,050    1,848    2.146  244             2.645               .       ..       7.4            _34        34       35
ITt al,                         6,012    5,663    6,324          7.044              7,605                                6.1           100       100       on0
PUBLII FINIANCE                                                                                                                            As Per.  n
(Centr-al Government)
-rr'tPece1-pts                317       280       469         563                665              .        ..      34.2           5.3        7.2      d.3
Caz  tExpenditures            365       364       419         464                553              .        ..      16.8           6.1        6.4      7.1
Bugary lains-48                          -84        50           99                112                                            - 0.8       0.8      1.4
Ot,-.-r  ~ blic Sector               .        .                      ..                                .        .          ..
PTu,Lic a1 ctcr Investment        421        239      248          5 1,6              5 14             .               10.3            7.0       3.8'     6.6'
us $ million LT
CjmRENTT EXPENDITURE DETAILS'                            Actual                  Estimated      DETAIL  liN                           At Av.  1917/78  P and ER
As v,Total Cucren- Expend.)               1969/70 1972173 1974/75 1967          1977/78       PUBLIC SECTOR                        Two-Year Plan   7. of Total
Education                   ..       15.5 ~~~~~~~~  T~~T47         13.0~~      IWVESTNOINT PROGRAM                     (197-8/779- 19779/80)
Dtner 3ociai Servic-:             .                  4.5      3.6      4.2         4.9        Social Sectors                              287         13.2
Agriculture  and                                                                              AgriculIture                                600         27.6
Other Economic Services                   .         5.0    12.5       6.6         7.0        industry and Mining                         380        17.5
Admintistration and Defense                 .       70.4    57.1    61.5          61.2        Power                                       314         14.4
,'oher                                      .        4.6    12.3    15.3          13.9        Transport and comsunication,                387         17.8
Total Current Expenditures        100.0   100.0   100~~~~~~~TO-. 0  100.0    Otner                                       2.06        9.5
T___tal___Current      _____Expenditures__________________O-O._____                            Total Expenditures                        2,174        100.0
SELECTED JILICATORS                                  1960-      1965-        1973-              FINANCING
(Calcilated from 3-Year averaged data)               i965       1970         1976
Average  0COR                                           ..      t74          0-U.89                 Putlic 5,-otor Savings                   557        25.6
TIsort Elasticity                                      .        1.29         1.11                  Program aid counterpart                  838        38.6
MBLrginal Dosmestic Savings ftate                       .       0.22        0.05                   Foreign Prol-ect Aid                     605        27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                          .       0.35         0.05                  Qt3er (mncl. darm. borroving)             174         8.0
Total Financing                       2,174       100.0
LA2R FORCE AND                                    Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per ,Worker (1.9 72- 73   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUT7Y PER WORKER                  In Millions             of Total           19 61 -'73        In UJ.S.Dollars        ercent  i Aenge            19 70 -73
19 60/61    192/.J73 19 60/61   1.972/73  Growth Rate          19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                ..         166          ..76
Indsty1.0                                        1.8       5         7          5.0                 .         29.                     10
Service                              1.8         3.9      10        15          6.7                --         484          ..222
Total                               18_.9       26.2    1-00       -10-0        2.8               248         21i7        100         100         -4.9
not applicable         - nili or negligibl~e
nt available         -  less than half the smallest unit shown
Notr.e":  Figures are on fiscal year basis (JulY 1-JuOSG 80).Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/I     Plan targets.



-31-
841 I3 O  P?lWS1    DTS116L AS8IMTA8   AND MR
(n alnlim or r,S. 86llw e ctnewv pninee)
A 1        t7 Z17  197/7                                      m            oe. AA     u oM-,.
~79             6        9/0 1 97Z171974 - 1978
5u4    ALANCE OF PADWTS
bocts (tnc1. NF5)                            315          369            358          529            589            648                       13.7
norts(nci )                                 -639         -747         -1I402         -957        -1,427          .1,*79                        9.8
41heiumebl                      nc  SY 2 -3-78    -1,428                                                                               - I,M7 4
Tntereot (net)                I
Dtrect 7nsant n7cotr   I
WorkerS' !ttaec              I                             45             7            66            83              93                          _
Current                       I                         -nsfer  (net)    I
b7n oCurr en rcounts13-.07:iil- 3 
Priate Direct Tcv. wtnt
Official Capitel Or nte                                   482            397           229           386            400                       13.6
Public M1LT Loo.
Disbursmenes                                            $76            527          273            411            695                        5.2
-R % Pu es                                                              -25          -16            -51            -54                          -
Wiet U1SbUr.ssont3                             --        7---- 
Othtr MALT Loom,
DO.bo neemmte                                                           ..
Net Di.borsemet                                             . .
C-pitl trenesctctseo ..*. i.                              -205           334           -44            16            _33
Crhoog  in Net Racrv e. (.- bn.4ee.)                       -20          -196           -80            24              25                                  Actuil L nd period                   Eotiated
Oror.. R.o..-   (Cod period)                               107           263           293           269            244                           5ILZ7i3  13974175   197/it  19791;    1977/78
DF7J2AN  DEbT jStVR7CE
,ublic Debt Out. & Dieborsed         228      1.366      1,812      2.065       2,556
ORAr /'JD L0AN 22999CFiWTMS
^rrin a7 N, atnt & 5r.nt-like                              514           368           338           452            toteoe on Pubic Debt                          10         21        72           27
Repayments an Public Debt                      25         78         17          51
:tb'c IRiT    n                                                                                                    Total Publin Debt Service            -         35         99         42          78
-'RD                                                                                  -Ntbhr Dent 3.rvic: (nest)                                    *.         *
68           150           s0            211          Total Debt Servtc  (net)
/Itnr Holtilatat.1                          ..            11            87           84             74
c overts                                                204            678          200            376        Wr=den on Eport 3rtning (s)
S'Pplier.                                   ..           35             17             2            IL
pion nial tnotttuttot.                                     -             -            5             13          ?ubli7  Debt Service                         9.S        22.4        7.9         13.7
Zond7                                                    -              -            -                         Total Debt Sss_vice
7ublic Loon.       .                       _            _TDS0Direot Dyvat. Cnc.
TCtol Public M&LT Lonsa _.                                 338           932           34 
Averqe Teoem of public Debt
Atnertl _ bt Otot.tdig; an Jose 30. 1978                             7nt. as S Prior Teer LDD                     2.0          1 5        1.4         1.3
,_.,Id___ DOPtc;t-                                                                                                 Anort. as S Prior leor D&D                    5 0         5.7        0.' 95
'dold Sack                                                                     -_C
CIA                                                     554                       21.7                          7SRD Debt Ceu. & Disbursed
D         tther itilat.ral                               64                         2.5                               a rs S Public Debt OD             -       4.0         3.0        2.7          2.2
Nnverrcttecnt                                        1.746                        68.4                               as S Public Debt Src.e             -                   1.6        7.5         4.4
111                        4.3
-ivnncol Coot/tutions                                   26                         1.0                         MDA Debt out. & Disbursed
oods                                                                                                             "  as S Public Debt OkD             7.1      18.7         21.0       22.7        21.7
?ubh: 'ebts  - .i                                                                                                   a   s S 7eblic Debtb Service       -       23           20         75          49
Voh; ety T. Debt                                   --a       uioDb   evc                                                                                 2.3         2.0        7.3         4.9
.ToEl Public YhLT Debt                               2.5S6                       100.0
Other MALT Debts
Shaor-ter. Debt (diSb. Onra)
cot appi.able                                                        e  staff e..ite
. t  -ot aalable                                                      -  nil or negligible
.ot available seperstely                                             --  ee  Iben half  e
but included tn total                                                     lee  uthen hoaithen
ovebr 197S



-32-                       ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 11 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    428.3         -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                   25.0      1.9
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.0        .5
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0      1.9
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.3       .2
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.0       3.9
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.0      5.4
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.5       4.5
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.7       1.1
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                  20.0      11.6
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.0      32.1
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.0      10.8
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.0      20.2
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0      13.6
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.0       9.4
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.5       5.3
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.0      14.3
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.0      14.3



-33-                        ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   ShaLlow Tubewells                          16.0     15.9
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                          21.0     19.3
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                     10.0      9.2
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                   5.0      4.1
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.0      10.1
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.0      18.9
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                       25.0     25.0
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                     7.0      7.0
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.0      6.0
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.0     19.0 /a
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                        75.0     32.4
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.0     10.0
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                       6.0      6.0 /a
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                        25.0     25.0 /a
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Fsmily Health                          32.0      32.0 /a
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
District                               28.0      28.0 /a
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.0      22.0 /a
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer imports             25.0      25.0
Total,                                                      54.9  1,184.3    463.7
of which has been repaid                                   0        0.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,183.9
Total undisbursed                                            0      464.7    463.7
/a   Not effective.



-34-                        ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: October 31, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads) have
been substantially completed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Tele-
communications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding generally
satisfactorily. However some deficiencies have been found in the construc-
tion and maintenance of project facilities.  The Government has agreed to
draw up a plan of action for remedying these deficiencies during the next
construction season.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development has started.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-35-                       ANNEX II
development for 2400 wells started in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit
for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed. A request
is currently under consideration for an extension of the closing date to permit
the financing of, inter alia, distribution channels in order to increase the
effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome of this review, the Closing
Date has been initially extendled to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high.  Staff morale has also improved considerably.  Civil works
are underway but are being de'Layed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment area undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1S976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Tle project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.



-36-                       ANNEX II
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been
received and have been reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. The first phase of orders are being placed



-37-                        ANNEX II
for at least 1,500 tubewells with suppliers. A consultant for workshop man-
agement has been hired and th,e preparation of tender documents for workshop
tools and machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5
project zonal workshops has been completed.  Thana irrigation Mrns are yet to
be reviewed by consultants.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consuLtants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni ]Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
The project is operating reasonably well in the Bogra District,
but not so well in the other districts where lack of transportation impeded
adequate supervision of extension efforts.  The situation should improve with
the arrival, of additional vehicles scheduled for early summer. Key problems
are coordiniation between research and extension, selection of contact farmers
and their attendance during extension agent visits, and inadequate local
currency support. In addition extension agents need to be instructed to
limit the number of points to be covered in each farmer training session.
Project staff are working toward achieving improvements in these areas.
Cr. No. 76j    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.



-38-                       ANNEX II
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
One year after effectiveness, project actions are proceeding
steadily: the first batch of construction contracts, out of a total of
possibly 10 batches, have been awarded; equipment procurement is well under-
way and the project construction, implementation and monitoring units have
been established. Improvements in the system for domestic food procurement
have been identified for implementation in 1979 aman season. A pilot project
for paddy marketing by farmer cooperatives is doing well in its early stages.
However, delays in full staffing and in land acquisition, and inadequate
financial allocations for the project in GOB Annual Development Plans could
slow down progress in the future.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory and all par-
ticipating institutions are cooperating fully.  The revised plans for
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) headquarters building and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) research stations
have been approved by IDA and prequalification of contractors has been com-
pleted. The BARC Technical Working Groups are progressing satisfactorily.
Progress has been made in selecting the candidates for the PhD training
scheme. Action is needed to (i) fill positions of BARDC Executive Vice
Chairman and two other Board members; (ii) complete PhD overseas training
arrangements and initiate M.Sc. training arrangements in Bangladesh;
(iii) recruit consultants; and (iv) prepare National Research Plan.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been



-39-                       ANNEX II
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Ihe project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, and th,e Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total
of about US$172 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site
preparation work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed
on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist
consulting firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect
the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about 32 months
behind schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial
slow progress in (a) placing, orders for time-critical items and (b) planning
for construction. Due to the need for additional site work, the delays and
currency fluctuations, supplemental financing was required. Most of the
required financing has now been obtained.  Arrangements are currently under
discussion with several agencies for the provision of the remaining US$25
million of foreign exchange estimated to be required for the project. The
soil compaction and foundati.on work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encounteredi due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided in
the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of August 31, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$23.9 million from the credit, for 108 subprojects.  Disbursements
were about US$12.8 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been approved for US$5.1 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978- Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of August 31, 1979 disbursements were US$64.9 million and QAR
had been approved for US$6.3 million.



-40-                       ANNEX II
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Stlff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of August 31, 1979 disbursements were about $42.5 million and
QAR had been approved for $18.9 million.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the Bangladesh Agricultural
University (BAU), construction of five new and equipping of eight existing
technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is now 70% complete
and is expected to be completed in June 1980. However, construction has
stopped because of failure of the Government to pay the building contrators
for works completed since March 1979 due to the lack of funds. Top officials
of the Ministry of Education, BAU and the External Affairs Division of the
Ministry of Planning met during July 1979 to agree on a solution to this
problem. The Association has not yet been informed of the results of these
meetings. BAU has taken steps to improve the practical training of its
students and has coordinated and collaborated its research activities with
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council and its extension activities
with the Agricultural Extension Service. Civil works of the Technical
Education Component although 30 months behind schedule is virtually complete
and the polytechnics are now operating. About 70% of the equipment has been
procured, installed and is being used by the students. Due to delays in
completion of technical teachers. While the training facility is now sched-
uled to become operative during the fall of 1979 it will take some time to
overcome past deficiencies in technical teacher training. Project costs in
dollar terms are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.
Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported goods.
Disbursement as of June 30, 1979 is $18.3 million (87% of the Credit). The
Closing Date of June 30, 1978 has been extended to December 31, 1980.



-41-                      ANNEX II
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of Marclh 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
CloG.ng Date: _   :ne 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months &c:nad of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 60% on, weighted average. Procurement of instructional equipment is
progressing satisfactorily. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service! training of extension staff.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is not yet effective. Agreements have been reached
with architectural consultants and for technical assistance services, and
are en route to Washington for IDA review. The project budget has been
approved by the Ministry of Planning and is awaiting the approval of the
National Economic Council. The effectiveness deadline has been extended
from September 4, 1979 to November 5, 1979 to allow more time for Govern-
ment approval of the project budget and IDA review of the architectural
and technical assistance contracts.
Population Project
Cr. No. 53:3   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit.  Progran performance,
which declined during the three months preceding the parliamentary elections
in February 1979, has improved again. The internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, is underway. This reorganization will not be effective
in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill
its large number of vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions;
and (b) simplify the administrative, financial and recruitment procedures.
Actions have been assured by the Government on both counts.  A program has
been started for the retraining of field workers which should improve their
performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare
Centers, build through commlunity participation, has been encouraging, the
progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than expected by
the last mission. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the
credit has also shown less than expected improvements.



-42-                       ANNEX II
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$7.6 million (87% of the
Credit).
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels



_43-                      ANNEX II
have alreadyr been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, :L972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements.  A fourth microwave system, equipment for which
was ordered together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, was
commissioned during June 1979, completing the project four years behind
schedule.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
T'he project is about three years behind schedule due to delays in
procurement, civil works, an,d reduced output of domestic switching equipment
factory. About two-thirds cf the credit was committed up to April 1979. Out-
side expertise has now been obtained to draft technical specifications of the
national trunk and international switching equipment still to be procured;
corresponding commitments under the credit are now expected to be made by end
1979. The rate of physical installations is improving; during 1978, 14,000
lines of exchange equipment were installed, which is better than the 1977
performance of about 10,000 lines. In February 1979, a new ordinance for
the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB) was issued; however, complementary
executive orders and regulations governing the functioning of the Board and
giving it adequate managerial and financial autonomy are still being drafted.
Progress on the implementation of a commercial accounting system has been
slow. In the absence of satisfactory accounts, it is difficult to assess
the financial position of t'he beneficiary but estimates indicate that it may
be improved, in particular in consideration of TTB's development requirements.
The project has been extended on an interim basis to permit issuance of regu-
lations an,d implementation of a commercial accounting system. Project com-
pletion is; expected in December, 1980.



-44-                      ANNEX II
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds are almost fully committed. However, due to slower
than anticipated commitments, an extension of the Closing Date will have
to be considered to complete the agreed subprojects.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
About US$2.2 million has been committed for six technical
assistance subprojects.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0
Million Credit of June 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
RURAL WORKS (WATER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 12/77 - 12/78
(b) Agency which prepared project: WDB/Consultants
(c) Project first present to IDA: 11/1/77
(d) First IDA mission to review project: 11/1/77
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:  01/28/79
(f) Completion of negotiations: 09/10/79
(g)  Planned data of effectiveness:  01/16/80
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
The establishment of a Project Revolving Fund in an
amount of Tl 8.55 million (US$500,000 by IDA and
Tk 800,000 by GOB).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) WDB would select the sub-projects to be assisted in
accordance with criteria agreed with IDA (paragraph 63);
(b) WDB would engage the services of consultants, not
later than December 31, 1979, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to IDA to assist in the selection,
planning, design and supervision of sub-projects
(paragraph 68);
(c) WDB would lprepare and submit to IDA for its con-
currence, not later than January 1, 1981 a detailed
proposal for monitoring project benefits and the
evaluation of project impact (paragraphs 84-85);
(d) Conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) the approval
of the Project Proforma by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (paragraph 75);
(ii) the establishment of a project revolving fund
and the deposit by GOB into the Fund of an initial
amount of Tk 0.8 million (paragraph 82).






- k - I N D I A                               BANGLADESH
Thmursoo )    <'.q                     -',SMALL SCALE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Sanir Haor Embankment Scheme
26'                  K Demur    N   -'^>!                                                   XyXmar-<t tK. C  2   Roexcavation of Harihar River
-,l.    : 'Excavation of Nurania Drain
-                                                                                  .j  : r' < ) t%NIlphpMpr' )> < \ >@-fConstruction of Embankment, Bhola
l-sIA   South Bhola Closures
7y4-. <sI89J              K                                '' 5<  <   .   4^4   Re-rxceation of Dhurang Canal, Repairing Embankment
7             . a- tc    n   unsP r <  t Wj X r             and Structures
N   ->                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary Roads
_, ,tPXI (R : , , g - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
District Boundaries
7.(             + .                 A       pX  -                               = --  International Boundaries
~~~S  H    1  ,.....E\AS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 'N
IN-,p H/~-.        N2
R                                          G                                                       I N   D I  Y
=                                          ~ ~~~~ A;   H.b   gA  
2,=.=~~~~~~~~~~~J
FAISIAW  I  '-  C H    , z  -                                        i  1l- COLA   - .
>   T    , r  , BlHUTAS S                                                                          c,^. W    A   - i \ J \  \   , i~~Ld ml.\ 
>  I N D I2A .                                  N RS1            A
This map has          by the                                                  2^ 2pas by th                                               ' )
World Baksstaff exclusively for                 (N 
the convence of the eders of2                                                     ,0 K                                                  .''2T
-22 the vapors to whiCh it is attched9.  7                                                                               H>ITTAGissownstisep2t  A
The denomination,s used ad the                                                                                                                      --=AN,.CITA
do not imPlY, on the pert fte49                                    /_ ~         - 
Wold Bn ad its aflifies, ay                                                                                                                     '
rudgmant on the lel ftstatus f                                                                     r                                2 }t
or acceptane Of suc bonaes.          27
/  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ND  A       -N~~                                             L Bay       a#i        Bengal
- (URMA                                     0     0 2                                                                 LUIi~
aABoy  AfBHenU Rs)
00'        5?                                92                        --U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



