OFFICIAL
DOC~T]           CREDIT NUMBER 955 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Small Scale Drainage and Flood, Control Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   ?, 1979
i;


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 955 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated &M     tt     0, 1979, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Revolving Fund" means the revolving fund account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Sub-project" means a sub-project selected or proposed
to be selected by the Borrower under the Project pursuant to
Section 3.02 and Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c) "Tk" means taka, the currency of the Borrower; and
(d) "WDB" means the Water Development Board established
and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and Power Develop-
ment Board's Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972) or any successor
thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
pause WDB to open a project revolving fund account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursements from the Revolving Fund shall be made exclusively to
finance the costs of goods and civil works required to carry out
the Project, provided that, no disbursements from the Revolving
Fund shall be made for: (i) goods purchased after international
competitive bidding; or (ii) civil works carried out by force
account.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Revolving Fund an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower equivalent to $500,000 and shall there-
after, at the request of the Borrower, further withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the Revolving Fund such amounts
as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made
out of the Revolving Fund pursuant to subparagraph (b) above for
expenditures for the Project eligible for financing under the
Development Credit Agreement, but only to the extent that the
amount of any such deposit, together with any amount already
on deposit in the Revolving Fund as of the date of such request,
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of Tk8,550,000
inclusive of the funds contributed by the Borrower pursuant to
subparagraph (d) below.
(d) The Borrower shall deposit in the Revolving Fund
Tk800,000 and shall thereafter deposit in such Revolving Fund,
at least once a month, an amount sufficient to maintain the
level of the Borrower's contribution to the Revolving Fund at
Tk800,000.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Revolving Fund such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable


﻿-3-
cost of goods or civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of thi redit.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Revolving Fund: (i) was made for any expendi-
ture not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit
Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association and prior to any further
deposit in the Revolving Fund by the Association, deposit in the
Revolving Fund an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Revolving Fund shall be made
when the Association shall have notified the Borrower that all
further withdrawals can be made under paragraph (a) of this
Section or when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account
shall have reached the equivalent of $25,000,000, whichever
shall be sooner. Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit
shall follow procedures agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, prcpurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-4-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction on
the Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall select the sub-projects to be carried out
under the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, and shall submit the appraisal reports for six sub-
projects to the Association for review and approval prior to the
construction on any sub-project; provided, however, that (i) the
Borrower shall not select a sub-project with an investment cost
equivalent to $150 or more per acre without the Association's
prior concurrence, and (ii) the Borrower shall not select a
sub-project estimated to cost more than $700,000 equivalent
without the Association's prior concurrence.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in sub-project
selection, planning and design and in the supervision of con-
struction, the Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1980,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree, employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance


﻿-5-
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) Without any limitation or restriction on the Borrower's
obligations under paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, not later than January 1, 1981, or such other date as the


﻿-6-
Borrower and the Association shall agree, furnish to the Asso-
ciation for its approval a detailed plan for monitoring the
benefits to be derived from the Project and to evaluatc the import
of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of,land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project, and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause WDB to construct and
improve the works included in the Project in accordance with
design standards and construction specifications satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof. Such records shall
include, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures paid out of the Revolving Fund or
described in Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures paid out of the
Revolving Fund adequate to show expenditures with respect to
Section 2.02 (c) and to show separately expenditures with respect
to Section 2.02 (d), or on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such records.


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall cause WDB, in respect of the Project,
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by the said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures have been used for the purpose for which they were provided
and a separate opinion by an independent auditor in respect of all
expenditures and records for work carried out by force account;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of WDB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause WDB to maintain
all equipment and facilities included in the Project in accordance
with sound engineering practices and shall provide WDB, or cause
WDB to be provided, all such funds, facilities, services, and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on the obligations
of the Borrower under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall: (i) cause the local councils (being the local government
units of the Borrower) to gradually assume responsibility for
the operation and maintenance of the facilities included in the
Project in accordance with the Borrower's Thana Irrigation Program
Manual; (ii) in carrying out paragraph (b) (i) of this Section
above, the Borrower shall give priority to local councils which
indicate interest in assuming responsibility and are prepared to
make adequate budgetary allocations for operation and maintenance;
and (iii) in the event that any of the local councils being unable
to operate and maintain any of the said facilities over which any
of the local councils has assumed responsibility, the Borrower
shall cause WDB to operate and maintain any of the said facilities
in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿r                                      --8   -
-8
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate exten-
sion and credit facilities are available to beneficiaries of each
sub-project as soon as such sub-project is completed.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall forward, or cause WDB to
forward, annually from March 1980 until the Project is completed,
to the Association promptly upon their preparation detailed
programs for sub-projects together with related budgets.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall inform the Association of
any proposed project which would require WDB to undertake an
extensive role in carrying out such project or which would over-
lap with a sub-project financed in whole or in part under the
Credit. The Borrower, after consultation with the Association,
shall take all steps necessary to coordinate the activities of all
such projects in order not to affect adversely the carrying out of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower;
and
(b) the Borrower shall have established a Revolving Fund
pursuant. to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and shall have
deposited Tk800,000 therein pursuant to Section 2.02 (d) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date              /       is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Se tion 1 04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHISAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿기


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Wit-hdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated-       % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 21,8002000       90% of local
expenditures
(2) Vehicles, equip-               7002000
ment and materials
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally.manu-                            100% of local
factured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported goods                          70%
procured locally
(3) Unallocated                  225002000
TOT41        2520003,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the.Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿II
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the construction, repair and modifi-
cation of permanent structures and the improvement of earthworks
in sub-projects selected by the Borrower from schemes included in
the Borrower's Food-for-Work Program in accordance with the
selection criteria set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and the provision of related equipment, vehicles
and technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C, goods and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿~~15
- 15 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall.
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 16 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be carried out through contracts let
after local competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's
procedures for such contracts.
2.   Gates for drainage sluices and regulators shall be procured
through local competitive bidding or constructed by force account,
the most efficient and economical of these methods being selected.
3.   Small items of equipment costing the equivalent of less
than $100,000 may be procured through prudent shopping on the
basis of at least three quotations from potential suppliers,
provided, however, that the amount of goods so procured shall not
exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of $300,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, together with such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-17-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or,
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Sub-project Selection Criteria
1.   The sub-project is a Food-for-Work Program scheme initiated,
and approved by WDB.
2.   (a) The sub-project was recently appraised by WDB techni-
cally, economically and financially.
(b) The soils, in the sub-project area have been investi-
gated and found suitable for crop cultivation.
(c) The sub-project would have no material adverse environ-
mental impact on the sub-project area, with particular attention
being given to effects on fish production.
3.   The sub-project is expected to benefit at least 1,000 acres
or 500 farm families and at least 70% of the beneficiary farmers
would own, or be tenants of, less than 3 acres of land in the
sub-project area.
4.   The sub-project is expected to yield an economic rate
of return of 25%.
5.   The sub-project is expected to be completed not later than
December 31, 1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate, and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the       d    day of  -2      ,
197 9.
FOR SECRETARY


