Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H368-NP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For Health Sector Program) 
 
between 
 
NEPAL  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 26, 2008  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H368-NP 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 26, 2008, entered into between NEPAL 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Original Financing Agreement (as defined 
in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
 
a
grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirty-one 
million 
three 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                       
(SDR 31,300,000) (“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Health and 
Population (MOHP) in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Joint Financing Arrangement, the Procurement Plan, the Implementation 
Plan, the Health Care Waste Management Plan, the Vulnerable Community 
Development Plan, and Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the annual budget allocated to MOHP is not less 
than seven percent (7
%) of the total of the Recipient’s national budget for each 
Fiscal Year. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Health 
Sector Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or credit made to the Recipient for the 
financing of the Health Sector Program has been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or 
(B) 
any such credit has become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring was not caused by the failure of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Health Sector Program are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Ministry of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Government of Nepal 
Singha Durbar 
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4211-164 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
NEPAL 
 
By /s/ 
Rameshore 
Khanal 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Susan Goldmark 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project, which is an integral part of the Health Sector 
Program, is to expand access to, and increase the use of, essential health care services, 
especially by underserved populations. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination 
 
The provisions of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing 
Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis 
mutandis
.
B. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) 
 
The provisions of Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing 
Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis 
mutandis
.
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Performance 
Audit 
 
The Recipient shall: (i) by June 30, 2009, submit to the Association terms of 
reference, satisfactory to the Association, for a performance audit of the health 
sector program implementation; (ii) arrange for the Recipient’s Office of the 
Auditor General to carry out such performance audit in accordance with such 
terms  of  reference  and  with  a  timetable  satisfactory  to  the  Association;  and             
(iii) thereafter implement the recommendations resulting from such performance 
audit in a manner and with a timetable satisfactory to the Association. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year trimester, and shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
Page  8
-
7
-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year trimester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the Fiscal Year trimester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
Page  9
-
8
-
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of the Public 
Procurement Act (and regulations made  thereunder), subject to the following: 
(i) 
Only the bidding documents approved by the Association shall 
 
be used. 
 
(ii) 
No preference shall be given to any bidder. 
 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
Shopping 
(b)   
Direct Contracting 
(c)   
Community Participation procedures acceptable to the Association 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants
’
services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of the Public Procurement Act (and regulations made thereunder) and 
using only the request for proposal (RFP) documents approved by the 
Association.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)   
Least-Cost Selection 
Page  10
-
9
-
(d)   
Selection Based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)   
Single-Source Selection 
(f)   
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)   
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the  following  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Prior  Review  by  the  Association:          
(a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; and (c) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by individuals and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more.
 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
Category
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR)
Percentage of  
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes)
Eligible 
Expenditures 
under each AWPB 
31,300,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the 
Association may determine for 
each Fiscal Year from time to 
time 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
31,300,000  
3. For 
the purposes of this Section, the term “Eligible Expenditures” means the 
Eligible Expenditures as defined in the General Conditions and includes all 
expenditures for goods, works and consultants’ services provided under the 
Health Sector Program, and all recurrent costs incurred under the Health Sector 
Program. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 6,260,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 16, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures; 
(b) 
for payments made for Eligible Expenditures under any AWPB until the 
annual allocation and disbursement targets for such AWPB shall have 
been agreed with the Association during annual reviews; and 
(c) 
for payments made for expenditures for goods, works or consultants’ 
services supplied under a contract which the Association or any national 
or international financing institution or agency, other than the Pooling 
Donors, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit, 
loan or grant. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 15, 2010. 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
5. 
“MOHP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Population, or any 
successor thereto. 
6. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development financing agreement for 
the Health Sector Program between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
November 29, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 3980-
NEP; Grant No. H125-NEP). 
7. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 26, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
10. 
“Public Procurement Act” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act, 2063 
(2007). 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
