                                                   Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                           ReportNo: 2965 1-NP.




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                      ONA

                                             PROPOSEDGRANT
                               INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR27.3 MILLION
                                   (USD40.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                     AND A

                                             PROPOSEDCREDIT
                                INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION
                                    (USD 10.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                        TO

                                         THE KINGDOMOF NEPAL

                                                      FOR A

                                       HEALTHSECTORPROGRAM

                                                 August 4,2004




HumanDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia Region
This document has a restricted distributionand may be usedby recipientsonly in the performanceof their officialduties.
Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective = June 1,2004)
                        Currency Unit    =  Nepalese Rupees
                                 US$1 = NRs.73
                                NRs.1    = US$0.0137

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              July 16    - July15

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARI         Acute RespiratoryInfections
AWPB        Annual work ProgramandBudget
BCC         Behavior Change Communication
CB-IMCI     Community-Based IntegratedManagement o f Childhood Illness
CBO         Community-Based Organizations
CDD         Control DiarrhealDiseases
DALY        DisabilityAdjustedLife Year
DDC         DistrictDevelopment Committee
DflD        Department for International Development
DHO         District Health Office
DHS         Demographic and Health Survey
DOHS        Departmento f Health Services
DOTS        Directly Observed Treatment Short-Course Strategy
DPHO        DistrictPublic HealthOffice
DTCO        DistrictTreasury and Controller Office
EHCS        Essential Health Care Services
EPI         ExpandedProgramon Immunization
FAR         Financial Administration Regulations
FCGO        Financial Comptroller General's Office
FCHV        Female Health Volunteer
FP/MCH      Family Planning andMaternal and Child Health
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GTZ         German Society for Technical Cooperation
HEFU        Health Economics and FinancingUnit
HCWM        Health Care Waste Management
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency VirudAcquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
H M C       HealthManagement Committee
HMGN        H i s Majesty's Government o fNepal
HMIS        HealthManagement Information System
HP          HealthPost
HSRU        Health Sector Reform Unit
HURDIS      Human Resource Development Information System
HSS         Health Sector Reform Strategy: An Agenda for Change
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund




                                        11

                                                         FOR0"              USEONLY
     IMR             Infant Mortality Rate
     JAR             Joint Annual Review
     JFA             Joint Financing'Arrangement
     JICA            Japanese International Cooperation Agency
     JSI             John Snow, h c .
     KfW             Kreditanstalt flir Wiederaufbau
     L H M C         Local HealthManagement Committee
     LMD             Logistics Management Division
     LMIS            Logistics ManagementInformation System
     MDG             Millennium Development Goal
     MIS     *       ManagementInformation System
     MMR             Maternal Mortality Rate
     MOF             Ministry of Finance
     MOH             Ministryo fHealth
     MOLD            Ministryo fLocalDevelopment
     MOU             Memorandum ofUnderstanding
     MTEF            Mid-Term Expenditure Framework
     MTR             Mid-Term Review
     NCB              National Competitive Bidding
      NGO             Non Governmental Organization
     NFHP             NepalFamily HealthProgram
      NHSP-IP         NepalHealth Sector Program-ImplementationPlan
      NPC             NationalPlanning Commission
      NRB             Nepal Rastra Bank
      P I             Priority One
      OAG             Office o f Auditor General
      PER             Public Expenditure Review
      PDWGlfI         Pooling Donors Working GrouplfIealth
      PHCC            Primary HealthCare Center
      PFHF            Population and Family HealthProject
      PPP             Public-Private Partnerships
      PPICD           Policy, Planning and International CooperationDivision
      PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      SA              Social Assessment
      SDS             Service Delivery Survey
      SHP             Sub HealthPost
      SWAP            Sector-Wide Approach
      UNFPA           UnitedNations PopulationFund
      UNICEF          UnitedNations Children's EducationFund
      U S A D         UnitedStatesAgency for IntemationalDevelopment
      VCDP            Vulnerable Communities Development Plan
      VDC             Village Development Committee
      WHO             World HealthOrganization

                                 Vice President:       Praful Pate1
                    CountryManagerlDirector:           Kenichi Ohashi
                                 Sector Manager:       Anabela Abreu
                             Task Team Leader:         Jagmohan Kang
                        Co-Task Team Leader:           Tirtha Rana

This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients onlyin
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                ~


                                                            NEPAL
                                              HealthSector Program


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................        1
 1.     Country and sector issues................................................................................................                      1
 2.     Rationale for Bankinvolvement .....................................................................................                            2
 3.     Higher levelobjectives to which the program contributes .............................................                                          3

B
.  PROGRAMDESCRIPTION                         ...............................................................................................          3
 1.     Lendinginstrument......................................................................................................... 3
 2.     Program development objective andkey indicators .......................................................                                        3
 3.     Program Components (See Annex 4) .............................................................................                                 4
 4.     Lessons learned andreflected inthe program design .....................................................                                        6
 5.     Altematives considered and reasons for rejection ..........................................................                                    7

C. IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................          7
 1.     Partnershiparrangements................................................................................................                        7
 2.     Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................                                   7
 3.     Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomes/results ..............................................................                                   8
 4.     Sustainability...................................................................................................................
              . . .                                                                                                                                    9
 5.     Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.............................................................                                  9
 6.     Loan/credit/grant conditions and covenants .................................................................                                  11

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                        .................................................................................................           11
 1.     Economic and financial analyses..................................................................................                             11
 2.     Technical.......................................................................................................................              12
 3.     Fiduciary .......................................................................................................................             13
 4.     Social.............................................................................................................................           14
 5.     Environment..................................................................................................................                  15
 6.     Safeguard policies.........................................................................................................                    16
 7.     Policy Exceptions andReadiness..................................................................................                               16

Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................        17

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank andother Agencies                                                            ...................... 22

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                               ........................................................................         24



                                                                  iv

Annex 4: DetailedProgramDescription                ...................................................................................    31

Annex 5: ProgramCosts   ............................................................................................................      38

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                   ................................................................................    40

Annex 7: FinancialManagement          ...............................................................................................     42

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................     54

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                    .............................................................................    58

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues          ............................................................................................     67

Annex 11:ProgramPreparationand Supervision                           ..................................................................   74

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                 .................................................................................    75

Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits/Grants                           .................................................................  77

Annex 14: Countryat a Glance        .................................................................................................     78
Annex 15: Letter of Sector DevelopmentPolicy                     .......................................................................  80
MAP:IBRD 33565




                                                              V

                                             NEPAL
                             NEPALHEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM

                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          SOUTH ASIA
                                              SASHD

 Date: August 4, 2004                         TeamLeader: Jagmohan S. Kang
 Country Director: KenichiOhashi              Sectors: Health (100%)
 Sector ManagedDirector: Anabela Abreu        Themes: Populationandreproductive health(P);Other
                                              communicablediseases (P);Health systemperformance(P)
 ProjectID: PO40613                           Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial Assessment
 LendingInstrument: Sector Investmentand      Safeguardscreeningcategory: LimitedImpact
 Maintenance Loan

 [ ] Loan   [XICredit   [XI Grant   [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
~




 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Amount (US$m.): IDAUS$50.0 m(Credit US$lO.O m; Grant US$40.0m)




 IDAGRANT FORPOOREST                            30.77             9.23                 40.00
 COUNTRY
 UK:BRITISHDEPARTMENTFOR                        28.28             8.47                 36.75
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
 (DFID)
 FOREIGN SOURCES                               125.92             0.00                125.92
 (UNIDENTIFIED)
 TOTAL:                                        478.28            20.00                498.28




Annual             0.00I         0.00 I         0.00I          0.00 1        8.00 I         2.00

KlA Grant                                                                                          I
Annual             8.00          9.00          10.00          11.oo          2.00           0.00
Cumulative         8.00         17.00          27.00          38.00         40.00          40.00
 Programimplementation period: 5 years
 Expected effectiveness date: 10/30/2004              Expected closing date: 01/15/2010




                                                 vi

 Programdevelopment objective
 The development objective is to expand access to, and increase the use of, essentialhealthcare
 services, especially by underserved populations.

 Programdescription
 The government's NepalHealth Sector Program- ImplementationPlan(NHSP-IP) describes
 eight "outputs" or areas o fwork. These have been consolidated under two program components:
 (i)StrengthenedService Delivery; and(ii)     InstitutionalCapacity Development. Although wide
 inscope, itshouldberecognizedthat the sector Programconsolidates multiple projects, andthus
 encompasses technical and material support from numerousdevelopment assistance partners.
 IDA'Sfinancing will disburse against the entireprogram, butpolicy and strategic dialogue,
 monitoring andtechnical inputswill be focused on areas o f the Bank' s comparative advantage
 andto complement that o fother partners.

 Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01): An Environmental Assessment (EA) o fthe health
 sector Programhas been carried out to identify the critical environmental issues associated with
 the Program and explore ways o f addressing these issues duringthe implementation. The EA
 has identifiedhealth care waste management (HCWM) as the critical environmental issue inthe
 sector. Health care waste poses significant risks to bothpeople and environment as they contain
 infectious materials andother hazardous substances. The environmental issues range from
 increasing the risk o f spreading infections to increasingexposure to toxic emissions from poor
 treatment anddisposal practices.

 Being an issue generic to the sector, a review o f the H C W Mpractices inthe country was
 undertaken as part o f the EA to assess the present situation andrecommend future course of
 action. International and local consultants undertook the study during the program preparation.

 IndigenousPeople (OD 4.20): The Ministry o f Health(MOH) has prepared a Vulnerable
 Community Development Plan (VCDP) drawing from the findings andrecommendationso f the
 Social Assessment (SA) andthe Stakeholder ParticipatoryFramework, undertaken during
 programpreparation, to ensure that the requirements o f Bank advised OD 4.20 are operationally
 reflected inthe design o f the program. This will contribute to implementation o f social inclusion
 inthe delivery oft healthservices. TheNationalHealthPolicy, the SecondLongTermHealth
 Planand the government's Tenth Plandocument emphasize aparticipatory andinclusive
 approach for the access and delivery of health services through specialtargeting ofthe poor and
 vulnerable groups o f rural andremote areas, women and children. Latelywith the
 implementation o fthe Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Government has implemented a policy o f
 reservation o f education scholarships, professional career development andreservation of seats
 for civil service recruitment.

 Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
 Board presentation: None
 CreditIGrant effectiveness: Effectiveness o fDffD grant agreement will be a condition o f
 credit/grant effectiveness.

I                                                                                                    J




                                                   vii

Covenants applicable to program implementation:

   1) The budgetallocatedto the MOHshallnot be less than 5 percent o fthe total HMGN
     budget inany fiscal year (FY).
  2) The MOHwill organize a Joint Annual Review no later than October 31 o f each year to
      review the progress of implementation, and another Joint Annual Reviewno later than
      June 30 o f each year to review the work plan andbudget for the next year.
  3) The MOHwill submit to IDA at least two weeks before the June Joint Annual Review:
      (a) an annual report summarizing the status o fkey indicators, relevant surveys, special
      studies and the Health Sector PER; and (b) a draft MTEF for the subsequent year.
      Annual financial audit reports, carried out by an independent auditor, will be submittedto
      IDA andDflD(andother development partners who contribute to pooled funds) within
      12 months after the end of each FY.




                                               ...
                                              Vlll


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryand sector issues
Nepal, a landlocked, mountainous country, has a population o f 23 million anda per
capita income o fUS$230. Halfthe population live below the poverty line. It is a multi-
racial, multi-religious society tightly segregated into castes, tribes and ethnic groups with
over 100 languages and dialects. The country has a difficult topography andlimited
infrastructure; 85 percent o f the population is rural, andlives on average three hours from
the nearest dirt road. The adult literacy rate i s 56 percent, with female literacy at 25
percent reflecting women's lower social status. Nepal has a recent history o fpolitical
instability andcivil conflict with 13 governments since 1991, andan active Maoist
insurgency since 1996. Maoist activities have affectedthe delivery of social services in
the Far andMid-Westem Regions, although health staff are amongthe least affected.

Improvements inhealth status o f the Nepalese were witnessed over the 1990s, with infant
mortality rate (IMR) falling from 102to 64 per 1,000 live births, andtotal fertility rate
(TFR) from 5.6 to 4.1 livebirthsperwoman o fchildbearingage (Demographic and
Health Survey 2001). These rates are still high, and other important challenges remain,
including (i) a maternal mortality rate o f 539 per 100,000 live births (Nepal Fertility and
Health Survey 1996); (ii)  malnutrition which affects halfthe children under five (DHS
2001); and (iii) the emergingthreat ofHumanImmunodeficiencyVirus (HIV)/Acquired
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). More importantly, national level health indicators
mask considerable disparities across the country's geographicalregions and across social
classes. Life expectancy is 74 years inthe capital ofKathmandu,but only 37 years inthe
mountainous district o f Mugu.

The country has a wide network o fpublic health infrastructure; seventy percent ofthe
population depend uponpublic facilities for modernhealth care as large parts o fthe
country have few private medical clinics. Yet, due to distance and cost, only 50 percent
o fthe poorest seek care when they are ill(versus 70percent among wealthier groups) --
the average treatment cost per illness episode is equal to one-and-a-half monthper capita
consumption for the very poor'. Over 90 percent o f deliveries occur at home attended by
untrainedproviders (DHS 2001), andwhile the relatively better-off women seek prenatal
care, women from the socially disadvantaged groupsdo not. Reachinghouseholds and
increasing utilization -especially amongpoor, women andmarginalized groups -
remains a key challenge for the sector.

Public expenditure on health remains low at only 5 percent o f the total budget, equating
to US$3.1 per capita-o f which US$1.3 i s external financing. An additional $7.40 per
capita is financed out ofpocket. Poor humanresource development andmanagement
policies have left large number o fposts under the Ministry o f Health(MOH) vacant, and
less than halfthe assigned staff are found at their posts. At the same time, rising
personnel costs have reduced the expenditures on drugs and maintenance.




 WorldBank (1998) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nepal, Report No. 18578-NEP, p. 2


                                                1

InDecember2003, HisMajesty's Government ofNepal (HMGN) approvedits "Health
Sector Strategy: An Agenda for Change" (HSS). The HSS focuses on attaining the
Millennium Development Goal (MDGs), andis based on wide-ranging stakeholder
consultations over three years, including with other ministries, non-governmental
organizations(NGO), the private sector, consumers, providers anddonors. Key elements
o fthe strategy are: (i) ensuring the provision o f essential health care services (EHCS),
especially to marginalizedpopulations; (ii)  decentralizingthe management o f service
delivery; (iii)promoting public-private partnerships (PPP); and (iv) improving sector
management andthe provision, deployment, utilization and efficiency of inputs. To
implement the HSS, MOHhas prepared the Nepal Health Sector Program -
Implementation Plan(NHSP-IP) which was reviewed by all partners inMarch2004, and
endorsed as the framework for development assistanceto the health sector. NHSP-IP
forms the core o f the five-year (FY05-09) Health Sector Program (the Program). Both
the HSS and the Program focus on demand, care-seeking andclient satisfaction,
recognizing that supply side improvements are insufficient to achieving the MDGs.

In2002, HMGNpreparedaPovertyReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP) that seeksto
improve delivery o f social services, particularly for socially excluded groups and
underserved regions. HMGNis implementing an Immediate Action Planfor priority
reform, which inthe health sector has initiated the transfer o f Sub HealthPosts (SHPs) to
Local HealthManagement Committees (LHMC), and the contracting-out o fthe
management ofhospitals. The Nepal Development Forum of 2004 has highlighteddonor
harmonization. As exemplifiedby the education sector, partners inthe health sector are
beingencouraged to harmonizeprocedures and approaches, andto channeltheir
assistance throughthe government system insupport o f national strategies.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement
The Bankworked closely with the government to develop the Second Long-Term Health
Plan(1997-2017). More recently it has assistedthe MOHinsteering the donors and
other stakeholders towards working within a common strategic framework (the HSS), and
a common sector program. The HSS andthe Program have drawn substantially from
economic and sector work supported bythe Bank. The Bank's engagement inwider
policy dialogue on poverty reduction, including community driven development and
PRSP implementation, places it ina strongposition to supportthe sector Program.

Buildinguponthe IDA supported Population andFamilyHealthProject (PFHP), 1994to
2000, HMGNhas initiated a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) to coordinate development
assistance to the health sector. The Bank has significant experience insector programs,
andiswell-placed to assist the M O Hincoordinatingpartners inthe SWAP framework.
Underthis program, the Bank's commitment, together withDfID, to disburse bothcredit
and grant through the government system andinsupport o f the government program, will
demonstrate to other potential partnersthe importance ofbuildingnational ownership and
implementation capacity. The Bank's financial inputs, both credit and grant, will
supplementthose from government andother partners, while its technical expertise in
decentralization, public-private partnerships, pro-poor health strategies, multi-sectoral
action for AIDS, monitoring and evaluationwill complement that o f other donors.



                                              2

3. Higherlevel objectivesto which theprogramcontributes
HMGN's policy and strategy emphasize the need to address inequities by expanding
access to the poor andmarginalized populations. The sector Program seeks to address
inequities and improve the health o f the Nepalese as a means to `develop healthy and
capable humanpower to supportpovertyalleviation.' The proposedprogram will
disburse against a share o fthe annual health sector medium-term expenditure framework.
The MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework (MTEF) is athree yearrollingplanwhich
supports implementationo fthe sector Program.

TheBank's CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) 2004-2007buildson its 1998CAS which
sought to facilitate Nepalese-led reform. The present CAS continues to focus on
improving govemance bybringingresources closer to beneficiaries, and improving
development effectiveness. Inthe health sector, the CAS aims at improving health care
throughthe govemment-led Sector-Wide approach andimprovingbasic healthservices,
especially for the poor. The proposed program i s consistent with the CAS, inemploying
a Sector-Wide approach to support the Program. The Program emphasizes reachingthe
poor and socially excludedwith essential health care services.

B. PROGRAMDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument
A Sector Investmentand MaintenanceLoanis proposedbecause the programwill focus
on the sector's entire expenditureprogram (as described bythe MTEF) andwill helpto
develop institutional capacity to plan, implement and monitor the results of government
expenditures on health. A Specific Investment Loanwould not respondto the
programmatic nature o f this program. An Adaptable Program Loan (APL)was
considered anddeterminedinappropriatebecause (a) the macro-economic and security
situation o f the country does not lend itselfto a longer-term commitment, and (b)
experience employing the APL to support SWAPSsuggeststhat the instrument canbe
inconsistent with harmonization efforts. Given the focus on core institutional capacity
building, a sector adjustment loanwas also not considered appropriate.

2. Programdevelopmentobjective and key indicators
The development objective is to expand access to, andincrease the use of, essential
healthcare services, especiallybyunderserved populations. This will be accomplished
through developing and disseminating services standards; employing behavior change
communication to affect care-seeking andprovider attitudes; decentralizing responsibility
andauthority to districts andcommunities; contracting the private sector to complement
public sector services; improving planning,budgeting andfiduciary management;
developing financing strategies which improve resource allocation andbetter protect the
poor; improving the deployment o f staff, and closely monitoring and evaluating the
impact o f these health sector strategies on access, utilization andcoverage.

The followingindicators will be employedto assess whether access anduse o f essential
services have increased. Each indicator will be stratified inorder to measure progress in
reachingunderserved populations:



                                               3

  (i)Contraceptiveprevalencerate
  (ii)Proportionofnormaldeliveriesconductedwith skilledattendance
  (iii)ProportionofchildrenwhohavebeenimmunizedagainstmeaslesandDPT3
  (iv) Proportion o fwomen andmenwho can correctly identifyone method o f
       preventingHlV infection

3. ProgramComponents(See Annex 4)
The government's sector program comprises two broad components: (i)         Strengthened
Service Delivery; and(ii)   Institutional Capacity andManagement Development.
Although wide inscope, it should be recognizedthat the Program consolidates multiple
projects andnon-project activities, andthus encompasses technical and material support
from numerous development partners. Total Program cost i s estimated at US$498.28
million equivalent, o fwhich DFID and IDAwill provide US$86.75 millionthrough
pooled funds (Annex 5). IDA's total financing o fUS$50.0 million will comprise a grant
o fUS$40.0 million and a credit o fUS$lO.O million; the grant will be disbursed first and,
following an assessment o fthe results achieved, the credit will be disbursed. IDA's
financing will disburse against the entire program expenditure, but policy and strategic
dialogue, monitoring andtechnical inputs will focus on the Bank's comparative
advantage andto complement that o f other partners.

Component I - StrengthenedServiceDeliverv:

Essential Health Care Services (EHCS) [World Health Organization(WHO), United
Nations Children's Education Fund(UNICEF), DfID, United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), UnitedNations Population Fund(UNFPA), JICA,
AUSAID]: The Program will support the expansion and/or strengthening o f eleven
priority cost-effective services by: (i)developing and implementing technical standards to
improve service quality;(ii) providing in-service training to upgrade the technical skills o f
fieldworkers; (iii)  ensuring drug availability inhealth facilities by improved drug
procurement and distribution; (iv) usingbehavior change communication (BCC) to
inform the public about services, to promote healthy behaviors andto promote a client
focused, gender-sensitive attitude among providers; (v) improving outreach activities
especially inthe Midand Far-WesternRegions; and(vii) conducting Service Delivery
Surveys (SDS) to obtain client andprovider feedback about the quality and adequacy o f
health services.

Greater local authority and responsibility over serviceprovision (IDA, German Society
for Technical Cooperation, DfID, UNICEF, Swiss Development Cooperation): The
Program will support capacity buildingfor the decentralized management ofhealth
services. Bythe conclusion o f the five year Program, responsibility for and authority
over healthposts and sub-health posts throughout the country will be handedover to
LocalBodies. The Program will articulate roles andfunctions o f the LocalBodies inthe
health sector, andprovide training inleadership, setting local priorities inhealth,
personnel management, performance appraisal, planning,budgeting, financial accounting
and controls. Large district/zonal hospitals will be made autonomous. MOHofficials at



                                              4

all levels will receive orientation andguidance regarding their roles insupporting Local
Bodies.

Public-Private Partnerships (IDA, DJTD): The MOHwill appoint a focal point for PPP.
The Program will support the development o f guidelines, contracting standards and
regulatory frameworks, andprovide training. New service provider agreements/contracts
will be definedwithNGOs andthe private sector. MOHwill contract NGOs/private
sector to manage five district hospitals anddeliver essential healthcare services insome
municipalities.

Component 2 - Institutional Capacitv andManagement Development:

Sector management (IDA, DfID): The Program aims at strengthening MOH's capacity
to undertake a SWAP andmanage the sector more effectively focusing on (a) the division
o f labor among key actors inthe sector; (b) the key management tasks o fplanning,
programming, budgeting andmonitoring; and (c) resource management-financial, human
andphysical. The MOHwill review the roles and functions o f different sector entities,
including its own structures, to reduce gaps andoverlaps, clarify responsibilities and
improve accountability. A management trainingprogramwill be implementedby the
Nepal Administrative Staff College which will include training indevelopingvision,
strategy and actionplans, andinbudgetingandimplementing suchplans.

Sustainable healthfinancing [DflD, International Labor OrganizatiodStrategies and
Tools against Social Exclusion andPoverty (ILOBTEP), IDA]: The Sector-Wide
Approach will provide greater transparency on resource allocation through the MTEFand
PER, andas donor inputs are broughtonbudget. The annualPER, alongwith the
monitoring o f implementation and results, i s expected to inform efforts to improve
allocative efficiency o f public expenditure. A financial allocation formula adjusted for
poverty, morbiditypatterns, population size anddensity will be developed for allocations
to districts. A review o f national experience with user fees (and the application o f
exemptions), community insurance and the community drugprogram will be finalized,
and lessons derivedto design interventions for future scaling up.

Drugs, supplies & equipment (Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW),WHO, UNICEF,
USAID): Underdecentralization, the MOHwill devolve to the districts the authority to
purchase drugs andmedical. The Program will support this by strengthening the capacity
o fthe Local Bodies, and o f the Logistics Management Division (LMD). The Logistics
Management Information System will support decision making at national and local
levels. LMD's role will be to prioritize the availability EHCS commodities and
equipment, outsource distribution, and ensure value and quality. Lastly, an
organizationalhome will be created inMOH to implement the HealthCare Waste
Management Plan.

Human Resource Development (German Society for Technical Cooperation, WHO,
IDA): The MOHwill review staffing norms andpractices, as well as skillgaps, andwill
develop and implement re-deployment andtrainingprograms, focusing particularly on



                                              5

decentralized facilities andoffices. LocalBodies will acquire new skills inpersonnel
management, and the authority to modify compensation inorder to attract staff to
underserved areas. Staff opinion surveys will be conducted to assess morale and
motivation andto help diagnose administrative, technical andmanagerialwork practices
that impede staffutilization and efficiency.

Monitoring & Evaluation (UNFPA, USAID, IDA): The collection, analysis and
reporting o f information will be improved. A `reporting needs analysis' will be
conducted to identify management decisions that canbe enhanced by the availability o f
regular information through reports that canbe generated automatically by the various
data banks and sent to the managers for use indaily operations. Household and facility
surveys will disaggregate results by socio-economic status and gender to instill a greater
appreciation for addressing differences o f utilization and coverage among socially
excluded groups.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe program design
The Bank's Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) onNepal: Operational Issues and
Prioritization o fResources inthe Health Sector, June 2000, recommended(i)         a focus on
the unfinished agenda of controlling communicable disease, improving maternal and
child health, andreducingmalnutrition with a focus on access and equity; (ii)      increased
institutional capacity for strategic planning, effective and efficient use o f resources; and
(iii) privatepartnerships,decentralizationofoperations,involvementof
     public
communities inmanaging and financing services, and increasingpublic resources for
health.

A review o fthe sector policvandperformancereports (Second LongTermHealthPlan,
Nepal, August 1999; Annual Reports o f Department o f Health Services 1994-1999; etc.),
concludes that: (i) vertical projects have proved inefficient and are less likely to be
sustainable; and (ii) NGOs, the private sector, communities andlocal elected bodies are
essential partners inincreasing accountability inthe management, monitoring anduse o f
health services. Lessons fiom the IDA supDorted PFHP include: (i)       borrower ownership
duringproject preparationanda realistic design based onthe borrower's institutional
capacity are pre-requisites to success; (ii) mainstreaming project management i s
important for technical andmanagerial sustainability; (iii)  devolution o fmanagerial and
financial authority i s necessary for effective implementation; (iv) continuity o f program
managers and skilled disbursement andprocurement staff are necessary; and (v)
continuous results measurement is critical to project success.

Extensive sector analyses (encompassing decentralization, hospital autonomy, logistics
management, drug financing, altemative health care financing, EHCS costing, health
information, quality assurance, social assessment, facilities mapping) have informed the
development o fthe sector Program (see Annex 12 for a list o fbackground documents).
An initial institutional capacity assessment was conductedto assist the MOHin
developing its new role o f supporting districts andLocalBodies, andto ensure that the
MOHhas anticipated the organizational, procedural andhumanrequirementsto plan,
implement and monitor the Program. The assessment has (i)        provided recommendations



                                               6

on strengthening the MOH structure, roles and responsibilities, and (ii)
                                                                       specified the key
organizational and management issues to be addressedthrough the institutional capacity
andmanagement development component.

5. Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection
(a) Supporting more extensivepolicy and institutional reform: Nepal's health sector calls
for wide-ranging reform. However, institutional capacity to manage change i s limited
andanover-ambitious reformprogramwouldberiskyinthe current political
environment. The proposedprogram i s pragmatic: it will support reforminitiatives
which are already underway (e.g., decentralization andcontracting), make investments
into improving service delivery and sector management, andwill lay the foundation for
subsequent reforms.

(b) Continuing independentsub-sectoralprojects supported by multiple donors: Several
bilateral donors (DfID, GTZ, KfW, JICA, USAID) andthe UnitedNations technical
agencies (UNFPA, UNICEF and WHO) are committed to reducing ill-healthandpoverty
inNepal. However, while manyoftheir verticalprojectshavebeensuccessful at
achieving specific targets, with donor assistanceconstituting 40 percent o f the public
health spending, these have undermined a coherent approach to sector development and
government capacity to lead andmanage development strategies. The proposed Sector-
Wide approach is a step towards consolidating multiple projects, buildinggovernment's
capacity to lead, andtaking a more sustainable approach to health development.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements
A Statement ofIntentprovidinga framework forjoint planning,programmingand
performance review, including partnership principles, processes and implementation
procedures, has been signed between HMGNand sector donors. All key sector partners
(DflD, GTZ, JICA, UNFPA,UNICEF, USAID andWHO) will program their financial
andtechnical inputs insupport ofthe government's health sector strategy (as defined
withinthe NHSP-IP), andhave committedto the Joint Annual Reviews (JAR) as the
common platform for sector planningandreview. Quarterly, all o f these partners will
meet under the Health Sector Development Partner Forum.

IDAandDfIDhave agreed to pool financing whichwillbe disbursedagainst the entire
M O H expenditure program. Detailed arrangements for disbursing, managing and
reporting uponthe use o f these funds are described ina Joint Financing Arrangement
which has been agreed betweenthe two external financiers and HMGN.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
As the program supports the government's overall strategy, it willbe implemented
through existing MOH structures. The MOH's Policy, Planning and International
Cooperation Division (PPICD) will havethe overall responsibility for implementation.
Withinthis division, the MOHhas established a HealthEconomics andFinancingUnit
(HEFU)to supportpolicy development andsector monitoring. A HealthSector Reform



                                             7

Unit(HSRU) hasbeenestablishedto facilitate andmonitor reforminitiatives. The
existing HealthSector Reform Committee, chaired by the HealthMinister andwith
membership from other key Ministries, NGOs, private sector and donors, will lead the
reform process.

The Department o fHealth Services (DOHS) will be responsible for implementing
Component 1: Strengthened Service Delivery. Specific Divisions, e.g., FamilyHealth,
and Child Health, will be responsible for the respective EHCS interventions. The
Management Divisionwill beresponsible for leadingdecentralizationwithin the health
sector. Responsibility for actual delivery o f EHCS will be with the Village Development
Committees (VDCs) andthe District Development Committees (DDCs) supported by the
regional and district health staff. The DOHS will hire a procurement consultant andother
consultants, as necessary, to assist it ineffective procurement, financial management
(FM), andcontracting withtheNGO/private sector. The PPICD andHEFUwillbe
responsible for Component 2: Institutional Capacity andManagement Development, with
the HEFUsupporting financing strategies, the LMD supporting procurement and logistics
andthe Management Divisionresponsible for information.

IDAandDfIDfundswill bepooled, andwill disburse a share ofthe expenditures against
theMOH's annual MTEF. The JFA signed byIDA,DflD andthe Ministryo fFinance
(MOF) will governthe use ofthese funds. The proportion o fMOHexpenditures under
its budget to be financed by IDA will be determined annually based on performance; IDA
grant will be disbursed before disbursing the IDA credit. The Annual MOHWork Planis
divided into trimesters noting approved program and estimated budget. One-third o f each
year's projected financing will be disbursed from the pooled donor funds to the
government's US$ ConsolidatedFundinthree installments. Program support from non-
poolingdonors will disburse inparallel subject to bilateral agreements.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results
The HealthManagement Information System (HMIS) routinely collects data from all
levels: sub-health posts to tertiary facilities. Indicators tracked through the HMIS include
those related to child health, family health, disease control, and service use. Data quality
i s generally reliable as special surveys have reported similar estimates for key indicators.
The ManagementDivisiono fthe DOHS supervises the collection, analysis and
disseminationo f service statistics. Ithas adequate capacity to handle this function, and
continues to receive support from UNFPA.

The Program's monitoring will be linked to and supportive o f the NationalPlanning
Commission's Poverty MonitoringAnalysis System. The Programwill monitor and
evaluate performance, based onpolicy milestones andother indicators (Annex 3), using
data from the HMIS, special surveys such as the Demographic andHealth Surveys (DHS)
andService Delivery Surveys (SDS). DHS provides status indicators on fertility,
contraceptive use, infant andchildmortality, andnutrition. The next two DHSs, due in
2006 and 2011will report approximately the baseline and the end o f the Program status
respectively. The MOH will also commission an SDS every alternate year from 2005 to
collect data on access to services, fimctioning o fhealth services, andclients' impressions



                                                 8

andexperience ofhealthservices. In-depth studies will be commissionedto identify
obstacles to care-seeking bythe poor. The Divisiono f FamilyHealth is responsible for
the DHS, which i s supported and financed byUSAID. The Management Divisionwill be
responsible for the SDSs.

With amove to a SWAP, data generated on a few select milestones andindicators will
engage senior managers inusingthis data for decisions. The two Joint Annual Reviews
(JAR) will base their discussions on this data to foster greater appreciation for
monitoring. The first JAR, to be heldno later than October each year, will review
performance o f the past year, and agree with M O H on measures to address weaknesses
andimprove performance. The second JAR will beconducted byJune, whenthe work
plan, the budget andthe MTEFfor the next year will bereviewed andagreed. A mid-
term review (MTR) will be conducted as part o f the June 2007 Review, an assessment o f
the progress achieved through the use o fthe IDA grant conducted as part o f the June
2008 Review, anda substantial Programevaluation conducted for the June 2009 Review.

4. Sustainability
The Sector-Wide Approach has been selected because it emphasizes sustainability. The
Program will be implementedby existing institutional structures. The focus will be on
strengthening government structures, processes andmanagement across the board andat
all levels, rather thanbuildingcapacity o f a parallel structure, such as a Project
Implementation Unit. HMGN is strongly committed topoverty reduction, the health
sector and the sector Program. Social services is one o fthe four PRSP strategic pillars.
EHCS have been designated as "highest priority" within the MTEF. TheProgram aims
at reducing the health sector's dependenceon external assistance by (i)     increasingthe
government's contribution; (ii)  improving resource mobilization through cost sharing,
community insurance, revolving drug funds; and (iii)     improving the allocative efficiency
o f sector expenditures.

TheMinistry of Health has begun to shqt its rolefrom basically service delivery to
stewardship. HMGNhas started handingover the management o f 1114 sub-health posts
to LHMCs. MOHhas contracted out the management o f two hospitals to NGOs, andhas
started focusing on its stewardship function by adding two units: the Health Sector
ReformUnit (HSRU) andthe HealthEconomics andFinanceUnit(HEFU). The
Program emphasizesaccountability and local ownership. Decentralized health facilities
are managed by local communities. The Program builds community ownership and
accountability o f health service staff to clients. These are important inputsto
sustainability given the conflict situation. Also, the HSS andthe sector Program were
developed through extensive participation and enjoy wide support.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects
There are no controversial aspects though, there could be opposition from the Maoists to
the implementationo f some reforms. There have been instances o f Maoists opposing the
community drugprogramreasoningthat health services should be completely free.




                                                9

                      R i s k s                                   RiskMitigationMeasures                        RiskRating
                                                                                                                  with
ToProgram development objectives                                                                                Mitigation


Political instability and security situation   To date, health services have beenleast disruptedby the              S
may impede implementation and                  conflict. Transfer o fhealthposts and sub-health posts and their
supervision.                                   staff to localbodies makes them less likely targets, and ensures
                                               sustained service delivery, HMGNwill also contract
                                               NGOs/private sector operating inconflict affected districts to
                                               deliver services.

Recent donor cooperationmay not continue       Donors have formalized their support to the sector Programby         M
insupport ofthe sector Program.                signing a Statement o f Intent.

Productive institutional linkages with private NGOsandprivate sector were involved instrategy and                   N
andNGO sectors may not be established.         program development; contracts with NGOs for hospital
                                               management have already beeninitiated.

Capacity building at different levels o f the  A participatory institutional assessmentwas carried out as part      H
health systemmay not be successfully           o f preparation. Ithas informed specific capacity development
carried out.                                   strategies.

To component results

Support for essential services may have        Efforts to involve communities, combined with the Behavior           S
limitedimpact as geographic and cultural       Change Communication (BCC) and Vulnerable Communities
access issues are not overcome.                Development Plan, aim to address client perceptions,
                                               satisfactionand care seeking behavior, especially o fthe
                                               underserved populations.

Management andmonitoring o f services by       Decentralizedhealthbudgets are earmarked. Central M O H               S
the DDCs andVDCs may not work, and             provides detailed operational guidelines to localbodies and can
decentralization may leadto capture o f        refuse to make allocations ifimplementation i s inconsistent
authority andresources by the elite.           withnationalobjectives. The Programincludes orientation and
                                               training for DDCs andVDCs members, as well as contracting
                                               NGOsto support the transition.

Programs which have traditionally been         Only IDA and DfIDfinancing will be pooled at the beginning.          M
vertically financed [such as Tuberculosis      Other partners will continue to provide parallelfinancing -
(TB)] maynot adopt new budgeting               much o f which is targeted at priority programs. The annual
approaches quickly and thus may suffer         review o f the MTEFwill allow partners to help ensure that
shortfalls.                                    budgets for priority programs are included as external financing
                                               increasingly moves through the MTEF.

Procurement may be delayed.                    Procurement capacity will be strengthened with the addition o f      M
                                               a full time consultant.

                                                                                                                     S
        RiskRating- H(HighRisk), S (SL stantialRisk),M(ModestRisk),N(Negligibleor LowRu




                                                             10

6. Loan/credit/grant conditions and covenants
Conditions o f effectiveness
Effectiveness o f DflD grant agreement will be a condition o f credit/grant effectiveness.
Legal covenants
0  The budget allocated to the MOH shall not be less than 5 percent o fthe total HMGN
   budget inany FY.
0  The MOHwill organize a Joint Annual Review no later than October 31o f each year
   to review the progress of implementation, and another Joint Annual Review no later
   thanJune 30 ofeachyear to reviewthe work planandbudget for the nextyear.
0  The MOHwill submit to IDA at least two weeks before the June Joint Review: (a) an
   annual report summarizing the status o fkey indicators, relevant surveys, special
   studies and the Health Sector PER; and (b) a draft MTEF for the subsequent year.
0  Annual financial audit reports, carried out by an independent auditor, will be
   submitted to IDA within 12months after the close o f each financial year.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses
The Program appraisal included an economic and financial analysis to (i)    examine
government commitment to the health sector; (ii)   assess the government's financing
plans; (iii)
           analyze the fiscal impact and sustainability o f increased public spending; and
(iv) review the cost-effectiveness o fEHCS to establish the basis for increasedpublic
provisioning.

HMGNhas demonstrated a strong commitmentto increasingavailability andaccessto
health services. Over the recent years, budgetary allocations to MOHhave increased
faster than the overall government budget. The annualwork planandbudget for
2004/05, along with the indicative budget for future years, indicate that the budgetary
allocations to MOHwill increase to 7 percent o ftotal budget (or US$115 million). The
proposed MOHbudget also includes a significant shifi inexpenditures from secondary
andtertiarycare to EHCS. Under the proposedbudget, EHCS spending which currently
accounts for 56 percent o f MOH expenditures is expected to rise to 70 percent by the end
o fthe Program.

HMGN's public healthfinancing planestimates spendingUS$SOOmillion over five
years. This level should elevate per-capita public spending to US$6.5, a growth o f about
27 percent over current levels, and represents 2.5 percent o f GDP. Though the
government's proposed financing planis broadly consistent with the estimated need,
HMGNrecognizes that its plannedpublic healthexpenditureis towards the lower range
o fthe estimated need. A review of different costing studies indicate that public health
expenditures o f about US$SOO million to U S $ l billionmay be required over five years.
Recognizingthe theoretical possibility o f a financing gap, MOHhas institutionalized a
budget rationalizing process through the MTEFthat protects key priority areas,
particularly EHCS. MOHhas also agreed to introduce measures to raise additional




                                             11

financing through increased domestic and external resource mobilization, efficiency
gains, rationalizing collection o f user fees andtapping into private expenditures.

The fiscal impact o fincreasing MOHshare o ftotal budget to 7 percent duringthe five
years of the NHSP was assessedagainst government's intention to keep fiscal deficit and
domestic borrowing under control. Even under the assumption that Government will
finance the increasedbudget share to MOH, the fiscal framework will be comfortably
withintargets by2005/2006. The analysis also indicates that these targets couldbemet
under a range o f other less optimistic assumptions on economic andrevenue growth.

All the EHCS interventionslisted inthe healthsector strategy appear to behighlycost
effective, with the highest Cost-per-DALY o fUS$70 well below the average per-capita
income. Though this provides the basic assurance for public provision o fhealth services,
equity and efficiency justifications were also noted. Private healthprovisioning has
failed to reach a vast majority o fNepalese because o f their inability to afford it. Zn the
absence o f affordable private health services and an efficient insurance system, for the
short and medium term, public provision, supplemented byprivate-public partnerships, i s
the only realistic way o f making health services available to the vast majority o f
Nepalese. However, many o f the poor currently have no or limitedaccess to public
health services. This suggests failures inboth the scope andmanagement o fhealth
service delivery. The sector strategy attempts to remedy this problem by seeking to
expand access to, and increase the use of, health services by the under-served populations
along with management reforms at MOHto enhance the quality and efficiency o f service.

2. Technical
Focus on essential health care services: The commitment to prioritizing sector
investments to essential health care interventions builds upon global knowledge and
recommendations. Also a broad consultative process was employed indetermining
EHCS content. Nepal has adopted internationally accepted technologies and
methodologies: the Directly Observed Treatment Short-course Strategy (DOTS) for TB;
Multi-DrugTherapy (MDT) for leprosy; andmalaria case findingthrough active
surveillance with the promotion o f insecticide-treated bed-nets. Similarly family
planningandsafer motherhoodwith an emphasis on skilledbirthattendance and
emergency obstetric care are key interventions for reducing maternalmortality and
morbidity. Community-Based IntegratedManagement of Childhood Illnesses, supported
by anExpandedProgramon Immunization, andmicronutrient supplementationare aimed
at reducing infant mortality and under-five mortality. Finally, for HN/AIDS, a multi-
sector strategy for broad-based awareness raising, complementedbytargeted
interventions for higher-risk population groups, blood safety and care for infected persons
is the key strategy. BCC will target care-seeking behavior among socially excluded and
disadvantaged groups, as well as among providers -- recognizing the importance o f
provider behavior inutilization. Under decentralization to DDCs andVDCs, clients will
hold staff accountable byreporting on their attendance. Lastly, somewhat uniquely inthe
region, the government recognizes the potential, and seeks to expand the role o f the
private sector/NGOs inreachingthe poor.




                                               12

Pro"      desim: The proposedProgram adoptsa Sector-Wide Approach, reflecting an
overall sector strategy that was developed through a broad-basedparticipatory process
involving all key stakeholders, andwhich is aimed at achieving the MDGtargets and the
objectives o fthe PRSP. The SWAP design conforms to international standards as there is
a growing global experience suggesting that it (i) improves donor coordination; (ii)
increases the government's ownership o f andcontrol over the program; (iii)   increases the
sector's allocative efficiency by avoiding duplication, minimizingthe displacement
effects of external assistance, andreachingbroader agreement on sector priorities; and
(iv) buildsnational capacity byusingthe government's ownprocedures andmechanisms.

3. Fiduciary
Financial Management: HMGNhas signed the Statement o f Intent with the sector
donors that provides a framework for joint planning, programming andperformance
review. DfD and IDA have agreed with HMGNto pool their contributions to finance its
health sector program. MOH staffhave adequate skills inthe government's financial
management (FM) procedures. The PoolingDonors have committed themselves to the
principles o fharmonization as reflected inthe Joint Financing Arrangement (JFA) and to
HMGN's budgetary and accountability system and legislation. This will facilitate
implementationandreduce HMGN's administrativeburden. The MOH, with
information from the Financial Comptroller General's Office database, will maintainthe
local currency accounts ofthe pooled funds identifiedby specific budget code(s) as per
HMGN's cash-based accounting system. M O Hwill gradually replace manual based
accounting system to one maintainedinsimple spreadsheets and database. HMGNhas
plans to connect MOH/DOHS with government's computerized accounting system by
2006. MOHDOHShave implementedvarious donor supported programs includingthe
IDAsupportedPFHP, andhave gained adequate experience. The systems, procedures,
and staffing o fthe system satisfy IDA'SminimumFMrequirements.

To strengthen the intemal controls, M O H may recruit independent reviewers, preferably
professionally qualified accounting and auditingfirms, to visit districts and evaluate the
work o fDistrict HealthOffice (DH0s)District Public HealthOffice (DPHOs) ando fthe
outreach health facilities andcommunities. The reviewers will submit an independent
assessmentto the MOHwith recommendations for system improvements. Comfort for
the effective utilizationo ffunds disbursed will be obtainedthrough public audits for all
entities receiving grants. The assessment findings will be reportedto the DHOsDPHOs.
These will be carefully monitored by M O H D O H S andby Joint Annual Reviews. The
Constitutionhas mandatedthe Auditor General to carry out performance audits; MOH
andthe Pooling Donors will request Office o fAuditor General (OAG) to carry out such
audit to measure Programimpact. The ProgramMonitoringCommittee chairedby the
Health Secretary will monitor the actions taken on audit findings.

Overall, the FMarrangements are adequate at the initial stage o f Program
implementation. These need to be improved, as per the action planinthe FM
Assessment (Annex 7). That will ensure a satisfactory FMsystem throughout the
Program duration.




                                             13

Procurement: Duringthe Pre-appraisal, an assessmentwas made o fthe capacity o fkey
implementing agencies -the DOHS andthe DHOsDPHOs -to undertake procurement
for the sector Program. It concluded that the DOHS andDHOsDPHOs are conversant
with the provisions o fthe FinancialAdministration Regulations(FAR) onprocurement.
However, for the procurement o fmedical equipment and drugdmedicines, it was
suggested that DOHS contract a qualified individual consultant or the services o f a
procurement agent for the first two to three years to ensure that the biddingdocuments
incorporate appropriate specifications, andthat appropriatequalitymonitoringi s carried
out, e.g., pre-shipment inspections or post supply testing. As part o f its brief, the
consultant(s) providing such external support should also be required to work with and
train designated DOHS/LMDstaff such that these skills are institutionalized andretained.

The DOHS has submitted for Bank review and approval a detailed Procurement Plan for
FY04/05 and anindicative planfor five years. The FY 04/05 Planprovides the
procurement needs by department, category andestimated cost. It includes works
(rehabilitation or upgrading o f district hospitals); goods (general and specialized medical
equipment, medicines or specialized drugs, etc.) and services (consultants for baseline or
other studies, procurement support, quality testing etc.) at each o f the expenditure levels.

4. Social
Makingquality health services affordable and accessible to disadvantaged groups is akey
Program objective. Based on the Social Assessment and the Vulnerable Communities
Development Plan (VCDP) recommendations, the Program promotes a pro-poor and
inclusive targeting through the collection of disaggregated health data, the use and
expansion o f ethnic languages, the empowerment o f L H M C and the genuine participation
ofindigenous peoples andvulnerable groups. Mechanisms suchas progressing from
user-fees to riskpooling andtargeting through the use o f social indicators inthe
Program's information system andthe development of incentives for public andprivate
sector providers to engage inpro-poor practices have beenintegrated into the Program
design. These provisions will be implementedinthe context o f the PRSP andthe VCDP
monitoring will be linkedto the sector Program.

Beneficiary needs and behavior: Society inNepal ispredominantly rural, agricultural,
traditional, andpatrilineal. Sons are preferredover daughters and are often given
preference inaccess to resources including food, education, andhealth. However, the
achievements o f existingpublic healthprograms andNGOprojects demonstrate that
despite substantial social and economic constraints, successful promotion ofbehavioral
change is feasible. The Programwill develop mechanisms for strengthening social
accountability andpromoting social andbehavioral development to promote a socially
inclusive health service delivery. It aims at increasing access to anduse of health
services by the poor, marginalized andvulnerable groups, Dalits, Janajatis, women and
adolescent girls.

Participatory and client ownership: Extensive consultations have contributedto the
development o f Program activities. The process included client andworker stakeholder
consultations, and using a participatory rural appraisal technique facilitated by local
NGOs andwomen's organizations. Feedback confirms that inrural areas, service quality


                                               14

remains poor anddeliverydiscriminatory, service i s limitedto the privileged, andi s
deficient inaccess and/or unaffordable for the poor. Improving accountability to local
communities andrecognizingthe importance o f client-centered services are thus key
Program aspects. To sustain and increase community ownership, stakeholder mapping,
consultation and analysis will be conducted inthe first Program year, andpoverty and
social impact assessmento freform will continuously refine mitigationmeasures.

Indigenous and Vulnerable Communities: Based onthe recommendations o f a social
assessment and stakeholder consultations, HMGNhas prepared a VCDP. It will ensure
that the Program implementsmeasures to provide equal programbenefits for the
indigenous people. These measures include: (i)   introducing local language BCC
programs inareas with large populations o f indigenous people or with linguistic
minorities; (ii)promotingrecruitment o f local bilingual women service providers ;(iii)
disaggregating health care data by gender, caste, ethnicity and special needs; and (iv)
enabling partnerships betweenthe LHMCs and community groups.

Behavior Change Communication will address: i) change to dealwith issues at the
                                                    social
household andcommunity level; ii)social ownership and accountability to promote
undertaking andownership o f Programactivities, services and facilities by the client,
household andcommunities so that inturnthey may holdthe system accountable; andiii)
advocacy through the use of media to gain support from other branches o f government
andthe public including social, political andreligious leaders and organizations.

5. Environment
Environmental Category [ ] A [XI[ ] C
                                   B

The environmental assessment (EA) undertakenfor the Programidentifies a lack o f
proper healthcare waste management (HCWM) as a key environmental issue as it poses
risks to bothpeople and environment. The issues range from increasingthe risk o f
spreading infections to increasing exposure to toxic emissions from improper treatment
anddisposal practices. A comprehensive H C W Mreview, conducted as part o fthe EA,
attributes poor H C W Mpractices to the absence of specific regulation. The study reports
poor compliance with existing environmental protection legislation. MOHhas recently
processed a proposal to enact another ActRegulation, which is pending approval by the
Parliament. MOHalso needs to develop detailed guidelines anddisseminate these to all
stakeholders. The guidelines would take into account relevant Bankpolicies and
guidelines.

To improve the HCWM, the MOHhas developed a strategy and an Action Plan. Key
thrusts are increasing awareness, introducing regulation andencouragingprivate sector
participation. Serious analysis will be needed of the treatment and disposal alternatives
for specific circumstances (size, location, resources, etc) before final treatment and
disposal decisions are made. The MOHhas agreed to establish a unit to deal with
Environmental Health, including the implementation ofthe H C W MAction Plan. It is
recognizedthat substantial capacity buildingat different government levels and o f other
stakeholders is required. Therefore a synchronized capacity buildingprogram has been



                                              15

  prepared. To monitor the implementationo fthe Action Plan and the resulting
  environmental benefits, a monitoring planhasbeendeveloped. Details are inAnnex-10.

  HMGNwouldneedto include HCWMas adistinct activity and allocate anappropriate
  budget for it inthe MOHbudget. MOHwill integrateH C W Mrelated actions inall
  health facilities with adequate provision for training, protocols andother support. This i s
  also expected to induce accountability among the respective agencies involvedin
  HCWM.

  6. Safeguard policies

          Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Program                                 Yes                   N o
Enviroimcntal Asscssnicnt (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                              [XI                   [I
NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [ I                  [XI
PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                   [XI
CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                  [I                   [XI
InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [I                    [XI
IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                   [XI                   [I
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   [ I                   [XI
Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            11                    [XI
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [ I                  [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [ I                  [XI

  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
  No policy exceptions are impliedbythe program.

  Because the program will disburse throughthe government system and against the MOH
  expenditure under the budget, there i s no need to appoint program staff, open a special
  account or disburse counterpart funds. A clear plan for monitoring and evaluationhas
  been agreed. The HMIS, DHS andthe SDS will provide baseline data. A procurement
  plan for FY04/05 has beenproduced and reviewed. The HCWMPlan, the SA andthe
  VCDP have been disclosedbythe MOHon its website and through the Bank's InfoShop.




  * By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'
  claims on the disputed areas



                                                          16

                    Annex 1: Country andSector or ProgramBackground


Country and Sector Context: Nepal i s one o f the poorest countries inthe world with an
annual per capita income o f approximately $230 per year (2002/03). Population growth
is highat 2.25 percent per year. Over the next 20 years the population o f approximately
23 millionpeople i s projectedto increase by 60 percent. The number o f women of
reproductive age i s expected to increase by 71percent with a resulting increase in
demand for reproductive health services. Life expectancy is at 61.9 (PRSP) years with
considerable regional disparities. It i s 74.4 years inthe Kathmandu valley, but only 37
years inthe mountainous district of Mugu

The population i s diverse, comprising over 100 ethnic, caste and linguistic groups.
Although officially a Hindukingdom, Nepal has a rich religious diversity, with
substantial Buddhist and small Muslimminorities. The mountainous terrain and
geographic conditions isolate the primarily ruralpopulation, manylive at or below
povertylevel. Suchconditions provide a particular challenge to providinghealthcare.
As inmanycountries it i s difficult to persuade health staff to work inthe rural andremote
areas, andthis i s reflected instaffing o fHMGNhealth facilities. Inadditionmany o f the
country's NGOs andprivate healthproviders are concentrated inthe better offregions o f
the country.

Health Status: Infectious diseases, nutritional disorders, andmaternal andperinatal
diseases dominate the overall pattem o fmorbidity inNepal. The main causes o f death
anddisability are infectious andparasitic diseases andperinatal andreproductiveill
health. Table 1sets out the burdeno f disease interms o f overall mortality and interms
o f Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). Over two thirds o f all DALYs lost are
caused by Group Icauses. Non-communicable diseases, including tobacco and alcohol,
are beginningto increase inrelative importance, though not to the same extent yet as they
have inother low-income countries inthe Region.



                                                      Cause-Specific   DALYsLost as
    CausesofDeath                                    Deaths as percent percent ofAll
                                                      of All Deaths    DALYsLost
    Group I: diseases and matemal,
             Infectious
    perinatalandnutritional problems                 49.7               68.5
    Group 11:Non-communicable and congenital         42.1               22.8
    problems
    Group 111:Injuries andaccidents                   6.9               8.7
    Unclassified                                      1.o               0.0




                                               17

The highest risk groups are children under five -- particularly girls who account for 52.5
percent of all female deaths, andwomen ofreproductive age. Although children
represent only 16 percent ofthe population, they account for over 50 percent o fthe total
DALYslost from allcauses, and80 percent o ftheir deaths are dueto Group Icauses.
Women 15-44 years old experience a 26 percent higher loss o f DALYs than meninthe
same age group. Mucho f this excess loss i s explainedbyrisks inpregnancy.

                          Table 2: Mortalitv bv Area of Residence
 Area of Residence Infant Mortality Rate               Under SMortalityRate
 Urban                60.4                             93.6
 Rural                100.2                            147.0
I Mountains          I 132.3                          1201.0                              I
  Hills               85.5                             131.3
  Terai (Plains)      104.3                            147.3


Inequityo f access to the healthservices compounds the impact o fthese diseases. Equity
issues relate to gender, age, caste, ethnic group, income and area of residence. Transport
costs are a significant deterrent to the poor accessing health care inremote areas andthe
largest equity discrepancies relate to area o fresidence (Table 2).
HealthPolicv: The SecondLong-Term Health Plan 1997-201 7 seeks equitable access to
quality health care for all people. Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the
TenthPlan 2002/3-2006/7, addresses social inclusion-aiming to bringthe poor and
marginalized groups into the mainstream o f development, and stresses strategic cross-
cutting approaches to: (a) redefining the role o fthe State, andlimitingpublic
interventions; (b) enlisting the private sector to play a leading role together with NGOs in
complementing government efforts inservice delivery; (c) promoting community
participation inandmanagement o f activities at the local levels; and (d) accelerating the
decentralizationprocess. The MTEF accords highest priorityto EssentialHealth Care
Services (EHCS). It proposes a redirection o fpublic spending towards EHCS and away
from tertiary care and lower priority services.
More recently, a series o f stakeholder consultations andnumerous studies were
commissioned to develop a Sector-Wide approach to health development. The process
culminated inthe Health Sector Strategy -An Agenda for Change (HSS) and the drafting
o f the Nepal Health Sector Program - Implementation Plan (NHSP-IP), which reinforce
the above national policies andapply them to the sector. These policies are consistent in
their emphasis on (i) prioritization o fthe EHCS andredirection o fpublic resources to
primarycare; (ii)  strengthened sector management and service delivery; (iii)   targeted
attempts to reach the poorest andmarginal groups; (iv) decentralizationto local bodies;
and (v) public-private partnerships.

Health Expenditure: Health spendingi s low inNepal inspite o f some recent real
increases. Total expenditure is about $10.50 per capita with $7.40 being private - the
majority o fwhich i s out o fpocket expenditure. HMGNexpenditure is about $1.80 per
capita anddevelopment assistance expenditure $1.30 per capita (Nepal Operational
Issues andPrioritization of Resources inthe Health Sector, Report No.19613, The World



                                               18

Bank). There i s a possibility o f significant under reporting o f development assistance.
Ofthe out o fpocket expenditure, about 70 percent is spent onpharmaceuticals either
through cost sharing at public facilities or inthe private sector.

Access to public andprivate inpatient facilities varies considerablyby income group,
with the wealthier makinggreater useo fboth. The stated commitment to primarycare is
not well reflectedinresource allocation inthe public healthsector. Inthe 199Os, there
was a shift inresources to urbansecondary andtertiary care facilities: MOHexpenditure
on secondary andtertiary hospitals increased from 14.6 percent o f the health budget in
1991/92 to 37.5 percent in 1997/98, and the share o fprimarycare decreased from 76.8
percent to 57.25 percent over the same period. However the share o f spendingon
primarycare has increasedinrecent years, to 69 percent with tertiary care decreasing to
25 percent in2002 (PER, Health, 2003).

Service Delivery: HMGNseeks to expand access to, andimprove the quality o f EHCS.
While developing the HSS, the affordability o fproposedinterventions was considered
andfour priorityareaswere identified: safer motherhood & family planning; childhealth
including nutrition; control o f communicable diseases; and basic outpatient care. The
Program hrther elaborates these into 11interventions: i)family planning; ii)safer
motherhood & peri-natal care; iii)community-based integratedmanagement o f childhood
illness (CB-IMCI); iv) immunization (including Hepatitis B andtetanus); v) tuberculosis
control; vi) leprosy elimination; vii) HIV/AIDS andsexually transmitted disease
prevention andcontrol; viii) vector borne disease control (malaria, leishmaniasis and
encephalitis); ix) prevention o f micronutrient deficiency disorders (vitamin A, iron and
iodine); x) prevention and control o fprotein energy malnutrition andmaternal
malnutrition; and xi) basic outpatient services. HMGNhas prioritized these health
interventions for public financing, andhas committed to ensure access to these prioritized
interventions for the poor andvulnerable groups.

Services beyond, but complementary to, EHCS relate to conditions that account for about
30% o fthe disease burden; these include environmental sanitation and hygiene; school
health, oral health; tobacco, alcohol and substance abuse control; mental health; accident
prevention andrehabilitation; emergency preparedness and disaster management; hospital
services; indigenous medicine; and a few non-communicable diseases. Public funds
should not be increased for these services inthe short term.

Several development partners, including Dm>,GTZ, KFW, JICA, USAID, UNFPA,
UNICEF, USAID, WHO as well as a large number o fNGOs andmissionaries, support
the health sector and are committed to reducing ill-health inNepal. They have been
supportingseveral independently effective initiatives, however they are not well linkedto
nationalpriorities andhave often resulted induplication o f scarce resources.

Decentralization: The 1999 Local SelfGovernance Act supports a radical devolution o f
powersto District Development Committees/Village Development Committees and
municipalities to runhealth services. Currently, there are no elected bodies, and only de-
concentration o f authority and fiscal decentralizationup to the D D C level is takingplace
inthe health, education andagriculture sectors. Inhealth, this has takenthe form ofthe


                                               19

handingover o fSub-Health Poststo the LocalHealthManagementCommittees
(LHMCs). Halfthe members of LMHCs are female with adequate representation to the
lower castes. This arrangement i s reported to be increasing community oversight and
makingservices more transparent. TheMOHhas started training LHMCmembersand
government officials to promote decentralization o f activities.

PublicPrivate Partnerships: Theprivate sector andNGOsmake animportant
contributionto health services provision inNepal. Various agreements and operating
mechanisms exist betweenMOH, NGOs andprivate providers. LamjungHospital and
the Nepal Trust Hospital inHumla are examples o f facilities managed byNGOs, while
MOHretainsregulatory, partial funding, quality control andmonitoringroles. HMGN
has recognized the advantages o fthis approach to service delivery andhas identified the
potential for increasingthe private-sector's contribution. However, there is a need to
develop a more comprehensive approach to Public Private Partnership that goes beyond
management contracts and includes an increased stewardship role for the government.

Capacity andManagement: The MOHhas a well-articulated vision for health sector
development inNepal, and several well-formulated strategies to achieve this vision.
However, the capacityto implement the vision and strategies are weak. The division o f
labor among all agencies inthe health sector is not fully clear, andresults ingaps and
overlaps. Within specific agencies, roles and functions, terms ofreference o f individual
divisions, centers and other organizationalunits, andindividualjob descriptions are
unclear. Some important functions are under-staffed with no organizational homes
specified for actions like environmental health, gender and social issues, andPPP.
Motivationo f staff and incentives to work are weak. Extensive information is collected
but is found infour different databasesthat are not yet linked. A shortage o fphysical
facilities at the district level constrains administration. Finally, the capacity o fthe MOH
andDOHS to deliver services is constrained by lowproductivity. The mix anduse o f
resources at various facilities and levels is inefficient.

Health Services and Conflict: The political environment inNepal is markedby
instability. Democratic governance is on hold since the Parliament was dissolved in2001.
Elections for local government were also cancelled inthe same year. The insurgencythat
began in 1996 as a low intensity rural campaign escalated in2001, and the conflict has
spread across the country. This situation couldpotentially impact the effectiveness o f
health service delivery, especially to the disadvantaged populations inremote areas.
However, public health services continue to operate inall the districts, albeit to varying
degrees o fnormalcy, andthe health service data shows no decline inservice utilization.

HMGNhas committedto "engage throughproper channels to ensure the rightsofconflict
victims to access health care, includingthat o fhealth workers to providehealth care to all
inneed. Similarly fiee movement ofhealthpersonnelandessential medical supplies has
to be ensured by all concerned". Challenge for the MOH i s now to implement this
commitment.     , HMGNhas scaledupthe provisionofmedicalcamps inruralareasas a
strategy to address the health needs o f the rural poor. These camps are well attended.
The MOHneeds now to consider other complementary service delivery approaches.



                                               20

Sector-wide Approach: Giventhe implementationrealities, a Sector-Wide Approach is
considered appropriate for the following reasons: (i)       health services, albeit compromised,
are still operating; (ii) services are under stress andneed support to both avoid
                           these
deterioration as well as to enable the services to become more locally responsive and
efficient andto be able to scale up quickly when peace i s restored; (iii) health
                                                                               some
services cannot be easily decentralized (such as curative care and some services that run
on economics of scale such as the vaccination and familyplanningprograms); and (iv)
the sector is more reformmindednow than inthe past as a result o f an acknowledgment
o f its past failings ,e.g., the failure to effectively deliver services being a contributory
cause o f the conflict.




                                                   21

                Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedbythe Bank and other Agencies


The World Bank           Support to Family           :losing date:         Development Objective
fundedProject: Nepal     Planning and Matemaland     1213112000            Satisfactory
Population and Family    Child Health(FP/MCH)                              [mplementation Progress
HealthProject            with a focus on increasing  4mount: $26.7         Satisfactory
Credit No: 26000         the service coverage,       nillion               Dutcome: Satisfactory
                         quality andutilization;                           Sustainability: Unlikely
                         improving grassroots                              [nstitutional Development
                         workers' functions; and                           Impact- Satisfactory
                         enhancing institutional and                       Bank Performance -
                         managerial capacity to                            satisfactory
                         deliver FP/MCH program.                           Borrower Performance -
                                                                           Satisfactory

DfIDassistedProject:     Assisted for access to safe Periodo f support     DfID's support to the Health
Safer Motherhood         delivery, increase in       ranges from 1997 to   Sector is to contribute to
Project, District Health contraceptive prevalence,   2006 andvaries by     poverty reduction through
Strengthening Project,   support to decentralization program.              progress towards MDG goals
support o f              andhealth economics and                           on IMR, MMR, andHIV/AIDS
contraceptives,          financing, development o f  Total funding:
HIV1AIDS program, TB     HealthSector Strategy, TB   E30.7 million
drug support, support to control, HIVIAIDs.
Polio eradication
program.
USAID assisted           Assisted inreducing         Periodo f support i s USAID andNFHP support
support: Family           fertility by increasing    from 2001-06, and     underbilateral country
Planning, Matemal and    access to and use o f       varies by program     programinsupport o f reduced
Child Health, HIV1AIDS   voluntary family planning,                        fertility andprotecting health
                                                                           o fNepali families and to attain
Nepal Family Health      reducing maternal, c h l d
                                                                           the outlinedHealthGoals o f
Program                   and infantmortality,       InFY2002/2003,
                                                                           the country.
(NFHP)/USAID             preventing transmission o f USAID invested

supports to strengthen   HIVand other sexually       over $20 million in

the M O H service        transmitted infections      various health

delivery                 (STIs) and establishing     programs including
                          care and support services, HIV/AIDS and
                          support to infectious      Family Planning
                          diseasesby improving       (source HMIS
                          surveillance system and    2002103)
                         minimizingantimicrobial
                          drug resistance. The area
                          o f support o fNFHP i s
                          family planning, safe
                         motherhoodpost abortion
                          care, CB IMCI, Vitamin A,
                          logistic management, BCC,
                          quality assurance and
                         worlung with I/NGOs
JICA supports control of Area o f support are TB     CTLHP is for five     JICA implements projects in
infectious diseases, and program, community TB       years from 2001.      coordination with MOH at the
M C Hprograms            and Lung HealthProject      Other supports on     central and community level to
                         (CTLHP), HIV/AIDS in        annual program        empower the community
                         areas o f STI and VCT, co-  basis
                         infectiono f TB/HIV AIDS,
                         strengthening sentinel



                                                     22

                          surveillance system,
                          nutrition and cold rooms
                          establishment, polio
                          vaccine for improving
                          immunization, CB-IMCI,
                          Iodine andnutrition
GTZJKFW: GTZ              GTZ/HSSP support is in      KFWprogram            GTZ/HSSPhas adopted a two-
supports through the      the areas o f health system supportperiodis       pronged approach by working
HealthSector Support      strengthening, reproductive ?resently committed   at the central and district levels
Program(HSSP); KFW        health, physical asset      ;o FY03104.           contributing to strategic
wpports for essential     management, human                                 planning development at the
h g s inthe outreach      resource development and    tJS$18.75 million     central level andprogram
health facilities and     community drug program.                           support at the district level to
Expansion, renovation o f KFWprovides essential                             improve public health services.
health facilities and     drugs, contraceptives and
procurement o f           some renovation o fhealth
sontraceptives.           facilities
UNagencies: WHO,
UNICEF,UNFPA              WHO provides technical      WHO executes a
                          assistance inpolicy         bienniumprogram;      WHO is providing technical
                          development andplanning,    allocation for 2004-  assistanceinhealth system
                          health system               05 was US$ 6.2        development and supporting
                          management,                 million.              priority programs through
                          environmental health,                             technology support and
                          water and sanitation,                             training.
                          prevention and control of   UNICEFprogramis
                          priority diseases.          agreed for five       UNICEF is focused on
                                                      years from 2002-06;   improving health service
                          UNICEFsupport is to         ithas committed to    delivery, policy development,
                          contribute to reducing      provide US$9.67       advocacy, logistics, vaccine
                          IMR, <5MR, MMR              million.              safety, community
                          malnutrition, micronutrient                       mobilization and BCC
                          disorders and to develop a
                          sustainable community                             UNFPA supports promotionof
                          drug program.               UNFPAhas a            reproductive health andto
                                                      program agreement     strengthening management
                          UNFPA supports is to        for 2002-2006; its    capacity to deliver health care.
                          improve reproductive        allocation for health
                          health and to bring a       sector i s U S $14.2
                          balance between the         million.
                          population dynamics and
                          socioeconomic
                          development. It also
                          provides support for
                          advocacy, HIVIAIDS and
                          gender issues.




                                                      23

                            Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring


                                       Results Framework
I Program     Development          Results Indicators                    Use of Results Information
  Objective
  1. To increase access to. and    Bv June 2009                          The indicators arejust a select subset
     the use of, essential health                                        that would show some o f the results
     care services (EHCS),         a) The Contraceptive Prevalence       o f increased access and use o f
     especially byunderserved      Rate will have increased from the     EHCS. They do not cover every
     populations.                  DHS 2001 level o f 39% to 47%.        intervention inthe EHCS package,
                                                                         but were selected becausethey relate
                                  b) Slulled attendanceatbirthwill       to the interventions inthe EHCS
                                   have increased from the DHS           with the least coverage today.
                                   2001levelof 8% to 35%.                Indicators will be reviewed at the
                                   c) Percentageo f children             Joint Annual Reviews (JAR) and at
                                   immunizedagainst measles and          the Mid-TermReview (MTR); based
                                   DPT3 will have increased from         onthe findings, the strategy to
                                   the DHS 2001level o f71%to            achieve stated targets would be
I                                  85%.                                  continued or modified.


                                   d) Insurveys, the percentage o f      Informationwill be obtained from
                                                                         the Demographic and Health
                                   respondents who correctly             Surveys and would be disaggregated
                                   identifyone correct methodof          by gender, age, caste socio-economic
                                   preventing HIV transmissionwill       status and geographical distribution
                                   have increased from 37.6 % o f        -to assess the effectiveness o f the
I                                  women and 50.8 % o fmen               "pro-vulnerable groups" approach o f
                                   (NDHS, 2001) to 75% and 85%           the strategy.
                                   respectively.

                                   Results Indicators for Each           Use of OutputMonitoring
                                   sub-component
                                   ByJune 2009,75% percent of            Low levels o f coverage may indicate
  Service Delivery:                public sector health facilities at    lack o f appropriate inputs, poor
                                   the district level and below,         management or both. A t the JAR and
                                   provide a complete package o f        MTR, this indicator would be
                                   EHCS as per national standards        monitored, based on HMIS, gaps
                                                                         identifiedand appropriate actions
                                   ByJune 2009, 100percent of Sub        agreed to fillthem.
                                   HealthPosts (SHPs), have
                                   decentralized management (by          Detailed indicators for each
                                   the Village Development               intervention will be monitored by
                                   Committees /Local Health              respective programmanagers.
                                   Management Committees), i.e.,
                                   from 1,114 SHPs as o f May 2004        Slower progress may indicate one or
                                   to 3,129 in2009.                      more o fthe following: lack o f
                                                                          continuedpolitical will to
                                   De-concentration o f management        decentralize, the needfor additional
                                   to all regions -at least 30 districts technical support andweak capacity
                                   will have their own five year          at local levels. These factors would
                                   healthplans by 2009.                  be reviewed at the JAR and Mid-
                                                                          TermReviews, so as to take



                                                    24

                          ByJune 2009, at least 10           appropriate corrective actions. If
                          district/zonal hospitals will have ?regress interms o f numbers i s
                          autonomous management boards,      adequate, service volume and quality
                          and for an additional 5, the       would be assessedon a sample basis
                          management will have been          :very alternate year.
                          contracted out to the private
                          sector and/or the NGOs (as o f     Slow progress may mean: resistance
                          March2004, management o f one      to contracting out, lack o f
                          district hospital has been         sontracting capacity inthe DOHS
                          contracted out to anNGO.)          and/or non-availability o f suitable
                                                             bidders inthe private sector. MTR
                                                             would agree onnew actions if
                                                             needed.
Component 2: Sector       Institutional capacity Assessment  An initialassessmenthasjust been
Management and Capacity   completedbyDecember 2005,          completed. A comprehensive
Development:              and appropriate management         assessment willtake about one year
                          actions initiated by December      to complete.
                          2006 as per recommendations o f    Years 1and 2: lack o f progress may
                          capacity assessmentafter           mean: weak M O H commitment to
                          discussions among all              institutional strengthening or the
                          stakeholders.                      strong influence o f vestedinterests
                                                             against reform, to be addressed
                          ByJune 2009, at least 70 % of      through constant dialogue. JAR
                          MOHbudget willbe allocated to      would recommend suitable actions,
                          EHCS.                              ifneeded.

                          ByJune 2009, 35% ofthe             The MOHhas identifiedseparate
                          recurrent allocations will go to   budget-heads and line items
                          non-salary costs.                  financing EHCS. This indicator will
                                                             signal more effective public
                          By June 2009,90 %o fbudget         expenditure allocation; lack of
                           allocatedto MOHwill be utilized   progress will indicate inability to
                                                             implement tough decisions.
                          ByJune 2009, 100% ofpublic
                          health facilities willhave no drug JSI data +LMIS would provide the
                           stock outs for more than one      necessary information. A
                          month ina year                     comprehensive plan for asset
                                                             management would be finalized in
                          ByJune 2009,90 YOofPublic          Year 1and implemented from Year
                          Health Facilities will have full   2 Then the target should be achieved
                           complement o f staff inthe        byDecember 2006. JAR would
                           assigned post                     continue to monitor t h ~ through
                                                                                         s
                                                             Year 5.

                                                              Special studies I surveys would
                                                              assess the availability o f staff against
                                                             the list o fposted staff. Continuing
                                                              low staff attendance may meanthe
                                                             needfor new incentives structure
                                                              and locally appropriate innovative
                                                             modalities be tested and if
                                                              successful, be replicated especially
                                                              for rural and remote districts.




                                           25

Table 1below provides the baseline and target values for the results indicators as also the
frequency, instruments and responsibility for data collection. The results framework
limitsitselftojust the aggregate level indicatorsthat wouldbemonitoredbytop
managers. Detailed and disaggregated data are not required for the broader monitoring at
Joint Annual Review (JAR) and the MTR. The framework does not include indicators o f
"higher level" outcomes, such as the reductiono f infantmortality rate, under-five child
mortality rate, maternalmortality ratio, total fertility rate, the prevalence and incidence
rates o f diseases, etc. However, as a Sector-Wide support program, it seeks to contribute
to such "higher level" outcomes more directly than a conventional project which may
contribute only a specific part o f the sector's activities. This would also be important in
the context o fthe Millennium Development Goals (MDG), four o fwhich are directly
impacted by the actions proposedunder this Program. Hence, the JAR and the MTR will
review such outcome indicators through a set o f agreed financial monitoring reports (3 a-
e). These reviews will also monitor the indicators inthe NHSP-IP's Logical Framework
andthe agreedmilestonesfor the following sevenpolicy reforms:

        Implementation o fthe Nepal Health Sector Strategy 2002.
        Harmonizationo f donor assistanceto the Health Sector based on the Aid
        Integration Process adopted at the Nepal Development Forum 2004.
        Equitybasedresource allocation(humanandfinancial) to district level andbelow
        to ensure improved access to the poor.
        Devolution o f the health system with decentralizationto local bodies andde-
        concentration o fMOHmanagement.
        A mixedeconomy for health; MOHadopting anew public sector role with an
        enabling (policy, financing, regulation) and quality assurance role particularly at
        secondary and tertiary levels.
        M O H structures, planning, budgeting, andperformance management re-structured
        to reflect and effectively implement the HSS.
        Proportionate shift inexpenditures from secondary andtertiary to EHCS and
        proportion o f total HMGNbudget allocated to health increased over the lifetime
        o f the Health Sector Strategy.

Table 2 sets out the key agreed policy reforms and the proposedmilestones bywhich
their progress will be tracked. The data for the measurement o fthese policy reforms and
for the outcome indicators would come out o f special surveys such as the DHS andthe
SDS.

Arrangementsfor ResultsMonitoring: The regular andtimely availability o fthe
information required to monitor the above indicators will initselfbe the indicator o f the
output o fthe Health Management Information System, a key part o f Component 2. The
results monitoring for the program would also depend on the monitoring and evaluation
system proposed for the broader program. The indicators, instruments and information
needed for the program monitoring would thus be derived from the indicators,
instruments and information systems envisaged under the Program. including the NHSP
IP's Logical Framework.




                                               26

The Programprovidesfor the beginningso f a good monitoring system for the sector
Program, including at least three monitoring tools: a logical framework, performance
indicators and implementation milestones. The review processes envisaged encompasses
the JAR, monthly monitoring review bythe Director General o fHealth Services, and a
quarterly monitoring session by a Technical Review Committee. The Program also seeks
to contribute substantially to such a monitoring system through dealingwith Management
Information System (MIS) and Quality Assurance (QA).

Thoughthe Programprovides for a monitoring system, the Bankwill bringa greater
focus to evaluation. Annually a specific sub-sector issue will be selected by MOH and
partners for in-depthevaluation and discussion o f findings andtheir implications at the
JARS. Also an assessment of the impact o f the use o f IDA grant will be conducted as
part o fthe June 2008 JAR.

InstitutionalIssues: Monitoringwill be primarily the responsibility o f the Management
Divisiono fthe Department o fHealth Services. But linkages are needed with various
other technical Divisions, and the institutional homes of other information systems,
currently yet to be integrated.

Data Collection: A combination o f service statistics and special studieshurveys will
producethe requireddata. Nepalhas a fairly reliable HMIS, whichreceives data quite
regularly from the field levelhealth facilities. Similarly, the FinancialManagement
Information System (FMIS) receives monthly accounting data from various cost-centers;
this is also reliable andregular, as the subsequent month's release of funds depends on
the receipt o f accounts for the previous month. The conduct o f special studies and
surveys would be contracted out; these will supplement the already ongoing studies and
surveys supported by different donors (e.g., DHS). Currently, there are four different
distinct information systems: the HMIS,the HumanResources Development Information
System (HuRDIS), the Logistics Management Information System (LMIS) andthe FMIS.
Additionally, the Divisiono f Epidemiology andthe various specialized institutions
conduct studies and surveys and specific diseases surveillance collecting usekl data, not
fed into any comprehensive database. Thus there wouldbe a linkage o f all these sources
o f data ina meaningful manner, to obtain the maximum mileage out o f them and the
system will be computerized to speed up information flow.

Capacitv: The broader capacity assessment would assess the capacity for data collection,
analysis andreporting as well. Initialobservations indicate a fairly strong capacity for
data collection and reporting, but weak capacity for analysis, interpretation and its use for
policy decisions.




                                              27

I



3    ?z

           3  19




r
                  n
                  9




           m
           N        10


            IA ..    M   I




I      E




                               0
                               M




                              B
                              0
                              N



I    .E

                              Annex 4: DetailedProgramDescription


Scope
The IDA financingseeks to support the entire program ofthe Ministryo fHealth(MOH) during
FY 2004-09 by financing aproportionofthe M O Hbudget, andthroughrelatedtechnical
support. This Program is based onthe "Health Sector Strategy (HSS): An Agenda for Change
(Reform)" o f 2002 and its derivative, the Nepal Health Sector Program -Implementation Plan
(NHSP-P), 2003, both o fwhichwere preparedby H i s Majesty's Government ofNepal (HMGN)
inclose collaborationwithkeydevelopment partners andother key stakeholders. Inview ofthe
Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP), this annex relates to the whole Program and not merely to IDA
financed activities. However, emphasis is placed on EssentialHealth Care Services (EHCS)
because a key reform, proposedby HSS andNHSP-P, is to prioritize the sector's investments in
EHCS.

The "sector" is defined to include activities implementedcoordinated bythe MOH. The MOH
Programrecognizes the need for appropriate linkages with other sectors that impact health status
and for partneringwith private sector andnon-governmental organizations (NGO); public-
private partnership (PPP) is a keyProgram Output identified under the sector Program.

Health Sector Program:
The sector Program envisions the improvement o f the health status o f the Nepalese population
by ensuring equal opportunity to quality healthcare throughan effective healthsystem. It is
consistent with the HSS, andNepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy as reflected inthe TenthFive
Year Plan(2003/04-07). Itsother guidingdocuments arethe NationalHealthPolicy, 1991and
the Second LongTermHealthPlan(1997-2017). The mainreform actions identifiedunder the
Program are (a)grioritized allocation o fresources and efforts to ensuring access to EHCS,
especially for the underserved; (b) decentralizationo fthe management o fhealth services
delivery to the local bodies; and(c) promoting PPP to increase service access and quality.

The Program identifies specific results from the reformmeasures, such as, better value for
money from private sector services; assured access to EHCS for the underserved; greater
efficiency o fpublic health services; andmore effective monitoring and evaluation o f sector
performance. It i s pragmatic and also addresses services "beyond EHCS" recognizing the
influence of the richer population groups on public policy and their demandfor higher cost
services.

Component 1. Strenpthened Service Deliverv
Increased Access to Essential Health Care Services
The EHCS consists o fthe following interventions briefly discussed below:




                                                 31

ITable3.1: EssentialHealth Care Services: Current Performance andFuture Needs
 SERVICE                IBurden   of   IProgram        ISuccess of    IMain ProgramNeeds
                         Disease        Coverage        Model
 FamilyPlanning          Indirect       50%             ***            Expansion
 Safe motherhood         3%             13%             *              Trials & Expansion




 Polio                   <1%            90%             ****           Maintenance &
                                                                        Eradication
ITT
 TT Campaigns
    Camnaims            11%
                         1%            I>>85%           ****            Expansion
 Vitamin A               5%             81%             ****            Maintenance
 Iodine                  4%             91%             ***             Maintenance
 Other nutrition         5%             38%             *               Trials
 Tuberculosis            7%             84%             ****            Expansion& Maintenance
 Leprosy                 4%             75%?            ***             Expansion & Elimination
 HIVIAIDSISTD            3%             ?               **              Expansion & Trails
 Malaridvector Bone      <1%            >50%            ***             Expansion & Trials
 Disease
MOutpatient
  TOTAL     services     7%             70%             **              Strengthen and Expansion
                        170%
Note: Available models have been scored as:    ****  Excellent model inNepal with demonstrated
success; *** Mostly  successful but unclear on obtaining optimal coverage;   ** Some program
aspects have successful models, butnot most; and *No large-scale successful model inNepal.

Note: Coverage is from the 2001 DHS (FP, SM/Peri-natal, EPI, Polio, and VitaminA); 2000101
Annual Report (Iodine, Other nutrition, Tuberculosis, Leprosy) or Program Reports (CB-IMCI,
TT campaigns, Malaria).

Family Planning: Program strategies are (i)   increasingdemand for services through Behavior
Change Communication (BCC); (ii)      increasing access to integratedfamily planning and
reproductive health services; (iii)improving care quality with counseling, infection prevention
andmanagement o f side effects andcomplications; and (iv) increasing access to condoms
through multiple channels. DOHS's FamilyHealthDivision(FHD)implementsthe program.

Safer Motherhood: The FHD's National Safe Motherhood Plan (2002-2017) seeks, over 15
years, to provide basic andcomprehensive emergency obstetric care (BICEOC) inall 75 districts,
provide skilled attendance at all births and ensure increased access to emergency fund and
transport services. The Program will establish CEOC in 10hospitals, place midwives at the
village level andimprove basic obstetric care with competency based training to outreach female
providers.

ChildHealth: The DOHS's ChildHealth Division(CHD) implements the following child
survival programs:




                                                 32

CDD/ARL CDD & ARI are being integrated with the community based integratedmanagement
o f child illnesses(CB-IMCI). The ARI Control Program covers 75 districts, with 10having the
community-based IMCI. ARI case management andprovider training are key activities.
Strategies include (i) maintenance and expansion o fthe CB-IMCImodel to achieve national
coverage infive years; (ii) refinement and institutionalizationo f the model; and (iii) o f
                                                                                        studies
potential coverage gaps.

Immunization: Strategies are (i) improving the quality o f routine EPIthrough outreach session
planning,monitoring, reducingvaccine wastage andimproving injection safety; (ii)        maintaining
the cold chain and expandingvaccine storage to the HealthPosts; (iii)      continued advocacy and
BCC for immunization; (iv) maintaining the National Immunization Days and Acute flaccid
paralysis (AFP) surveillance to achieve polio eradicationcertification by2005 (v) expanding
maternalneonataltetanus (MNT) program country-wide; (vi) nationwide coverage with DPT-
Hepatitis Bby 2005; (vii) introducing auto destruct syringes country-wide; and (viii)
implementingthe second opportunity measles vaccination for childrenupto 14years.

Nutrition: Main strategies are: (i)maintaining the national Vitamin A semi-annual
supplementation program, expanding it through VitaminA use insick child management, and
implementing a pilot for treating night-blindpregnant women; (ii)     increasing the availability and
use o f iodized salt through BCC andmarket measures; (iii)    evaluating the semi-annual mass de-
worming o f children for its country-wide expansion; (iv) promoting the use o f iron-folate in
pregnantwomen; and (v) promoting growth monitoring andcounseling, breastfeeding practices
andyoung child feeding, andconsumptionof fortified complementary blended foods.

Communicable disease control:
Tuberculosis: Strategies include (i) expanding DOTS to all patients registeredinthe National
Tuberculosis Program andto the community level; (ii)     expanding public andprivate diagnostic
andtreatment sites to improve access and coverage, andmaintaining quality; (iii)      establishing a
treatment center and sub-center inHealth Posts and Sub-Health Posts (SHP) and/or inthe
community; (iv) collaboratingwith HIV/AIDS program on TB/HIV co-infection; (v) conducting
studies to deal with emerging issues, e.g., drugresistance; and (vi) intensifying services to the
urbanpoor.

Leprosy: Strategies include: (i) providing services nearest to people's homes andtransferring the
retained patients from referral centers to the health centers/district clinics; (ii)
                                                                                  Multi-Drug
Therapy (MDT)provision to all registeredtreatment cases; (iii)      disability preventionby early
case detection andtreatment; and (iv) reducing social stigma by increasing awareness about the
disease.

Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS/STL Strategies include: (i)       preventing STIs and HIV
among the high-risk groups; (ii) ensuring safe blood supply; (iii)   preventing infections among the
young ;(iv) ensuring care and support for persons infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; (v)
improved monitoring and evaluation; and (v) establishing an effective management system.

Control of infectious diseases and zoonoses: Key activities are managing essential medicines
andvaccines, andcapacity building. These are needed at all levels for outbreaks o fdiseases such



                                                 33

as Acute Diarrheal Disease, Typhoid, Hepatitis (A & E), measles, Acute Respiratory Infection;
Zoonoses like Rabies, andJapaneseEncephalitis; and snakebite management. Mobilization of
local rapid response teams duringthe outbreaks i s an importantstrategy.

Vector Borne Disease Control: The Epidemiological andDisease Control Division(EDCD)
manages these programs. Major activities are (i)   BCC, surveillance, epidemic preparedness and
response; (ii) o f essential medicines, vaccines and supplies; (iii)
              supply                                                    Zoonoses control, early
diagnosis andprompt treatment; (iv) epidemiological capacity building; (v) transmission risk
reduction; (vi) mapping o friskpopulation andareas; (vii) strengthening diagnostic facilities; and
(viii) implementation o fthe cross border collaborative activities.

Malaria; Strategies are rapid diagnosis and treatment (public andprivate), surveillance for
outbreaks, focal household spraying inendemic areas, containing outbreaks, and drug resistance
monitoring. Addition o f treated bednets will be piloted andpotentially expanded.

Kala-Azar: Primary healthcare approach is usedwith active community participation,
determining the efficacy o f the first line drug SAG andpreventing epidemics. Strategy i s case
treatment and containment o f outbreaks with focal household spraying. Community
mobilization for case finding andholding, use o fnew drugs andvector studies will be piloted.

JapaneseEncephalitis(JE): Strategies are conducting surveillance and case treatment and
adding Japanese Encephalitis immunizationinthe 12 endemic districts.

Strenahened Outpatient Services: Strategies are (i)  expanding the Community DrugProgram ;
(ii) publicfacilitiestochargefordrugstohavetheseinstock;(iii)
    allowing                                                                switching to a "pull"
system o f drugordering and local purchasingunder central price negotiation; and (iv) improving
staffmotivation by decentralizing some personnel functions. MOHwill promote rational drug
use; implement standard treatment schedules and essential druglists through training, monitoring
andsupervision; andensure essential infrastructure, repair andmaintenance.

Decentralized and Local-level Management
Per the Local Self Governance Act o f 1999, decentralization o fhealth services i s envisaged
through both devolution and de-concentration. Under the Program, specific responsibilities,
resources and authority will be transferred fromthe MOHto Local Governments at the district,
municipality andvillage levels. Local level bodies will have the authority to generate and
manage resources, determine priorities andmanage staff. To date, MOHhas handedover 1114
SHPs to VDCs. Currently, VDCs receive central block grants, o f which 25% are earmarked for
social services including health. HMGNplans to gradually transfer full authority, including the
management o f staff. The Programwill develop capacity at local levels to handle the new
responsibilities andestablish new systems o f accountability. District Health Offices will be
strengthened to provide technical support to the outreach facilities. The Program will also
support de-concentration o fmanagerial authority andresources to lower levels within the health
sector. While the Ministry o f Local Government oversees the plans to devolve authority to local
bodies, MOHcontrols the de-concentration.




                                                  34

Public-Private Partnership
The HSS states that the `public sector will develop amajor new role inworking with the private /
NGO sector', andidentifies four areas for it: sustainable financing; providing an integrated
approach to service delivery; quality assurance; andpharmaceuticals and new technology. The
envisaged stewardship role o f the MOH demands capacity building. Similarly the future
government role as the purchaser o f services for the poor, especially tertiary care with heath
insurance, also envisages new capacities. The MOHwill appoint a focal point for PPP and for
social exclusion issues (gender, caste andJanjatis), develop a strategy for partnership with NGOs
andthe private sector andbudget funds to implementrelatedactivities.
Program will focus on buildingMOHcapacity for monitoring andregulation, developing
partnership mechanisms, guidelines, contracting models andtraining on these.

Component2: InstitutionalandManagementCapacityDevelopment
The design o f this component i s based on the institutional capacity assessment, which recognizes
that the MOHhas the required capacity ifthe following conditions are met to a reasonable
degree: (i) the division o f labor among all organizational units within the MOHi s optimal; (ii)
the MOHhas effective leadership (referring to vision and strategies); (iii) MOHcanmobilize
                                                                             the
sufficient financial resources to match its mandate, or adjust its mandate to its financial
resources; (iv) the MOHhas adequate staff with the rightmix and level o f skills to matchits
mandate, and sufficient incentives and adequate conditions for them to work at a full rate o f
utilization and efficiency; (v) the MOHhas adequate physical resources to match its mandate,
and is able to manage and maintainthese resources well; (vi) the MOHcollects, analyzes and
utilizes information well both for the conduct o f daily operations and for policy analysis,
monitoring and evaluation; and(vii) the incentive systems enable people working inthe sector to
follow productive work and management practices. The Program includes numerous activities
to meet these conditions.

Improving the division of and improving leadership in the sector and its agencies
This will aim at improving the management o fthe health sector ando f each o f MOH's key
agencies by clarifying their roles and functions, resolvingrole conflicts andremoving functional
gaps. Three functional analyses will be carried out: a horizontal analysis focusing on the entire
sector, a vertical analysis ofthe MOH, the Regional HealthOffices and the District Health
Offices, and an intra-agency analysis o f the organization structure o f the MOHand the DoHS.
The vertical functional analysis will relate to the current situation andto the anticipated
government's move towards decentralization. Ineach case, roles andresponsibilities will be
redefined, re-designed andre-written (inTORSandjob descriptions) where necessary. Ineach,
the implications for capacity will be analyzed and an actionplanwill be developed to buildup
the required capacity. The analyses will be carried out bymanagement consultants. The existing
division o f labor andthe proposedchanges will be presentedto agencies involved and other
stakeholders for discussion. The analyses may results inrecommendations for the consolidation
of functions inexisting agencies, or organizational units, andthe creation ofnew units.

This will also involve increasingthe capacity o ftop andmid-level managers inthe sector to lead
the agencies, units and facilities they manage, by training and facilitating them to develop good
visions, strategies and plans. A key area will be the local bodies that will be re-established.
They will have re-defined roles andfunctions, new areas o fresponsibility and an increasing level



                                                  35

o f authority because o f decentralization. They will also have new, elected leaders. They will be
requiredto develop five-year plans based onnational guidelines. The training - to beprovided
byconsultants -will be specially developed for their specific needs following study o fthe
situation inthe districts. Management mentoringwill be provided to the heads o f the health
services inthe local bodies. A mentor will visit each once a month for one year to benefit from
close, disinterested, technically sound advice.

Development of sustainable healthfinancing and resource allocation
The Programfocuses on increasing andimproving public expenditure andits efficiency,
decentralization andcontracting. Alternative financing arrangements are under consideration for
hospital and specialty care, and for some EHCS curative care, e.g., outpatient services. MOH
will develop appropriate mechanisms andtest these for public financing for the poor accessing
these services and for catastrophic illnesses. It will also develop national guidelines on user fee
practices and other payments inpublic facilities, especially on exemptions to the poor.

The MOHintends to initiate alternative financing schemes including community and social
healthinsurance schemes as a means to supplement government financing to promote risk
pooling, enable demandside subsidies and strengthen PPP. There are a few community health
insurance schemes (including the Community DrugProgram) withinNepal. MOHi s
consideringworking with these andusingtheir experience to develop an approach for wider
replication inNepal. Options for hospital fundinginclude (i)    developing a system o f charges for
hospital services with assessment and subsidy for the poor; (ii)  refiningthe concept o f Social
Health Insurance andhow it will be applied to hospitals; and (iii)  encouraginghospitals to make
use o fincome from charges to improve the quality o f services.

Improving the utilization, efficiency and management of physical resources:
This activity will support the Ministry's effort at developing asset management function. It will
relate to currently usedphysical resources andto health care waste management. Standards and
norms for the provision o fmedical and administrative facilities and equipment will bereviewed.
Two physical resources surveys will be carried out once the standards are set -one for medical
resources and the other for administrative and technical resources. Inaddition, a study will be
conducted on the movement o f specific items throughthe system, from the time their
specifications are detailed, through procurement, distribution, utilization andmaintenance until
these are retired. Based on these reviews, asset management systems andprocedures will be
finalized andintroduced.

Improving the deployment, utilization, efficiency and management of human resources
This activity will help address the apparent imbalancebetween the size ofthe healthwork force
andthe magnitude o fits tasks. Work load andstaffing analyses will be carried out at key
agencies to help determine the optimal andthe minimal staffnumbers requiredbythem to
accomplishtheir existing and/or newly definedroles and functions. A skill needs analyses will
be conducted and, based on results, multi-year training programs developed. Three rounds o f
staff opinion surveys will be conductedto assess morale andmotivation and to help diagnose
administrative, technical andmanagerial work practices that impede staff utilization and
efficiency. A special study will be conducted on the management ofhumanresources to upgrade
the traditional personnel function into humanresource development andmanagement. Finally,



                                                  36

particular attention will be paid to the local bodies, which will be the fiture employers o fhealth
staff at their level.

Improving the collection, analysis and use of information in the management of the sector:
This activity will support an analysis o fthe needs for firther development o fMOH's six data
bases and the ways to link these into one integrated system. This effort will be accompanied by
an attempt to improve the use of the information collected at all management levels, by
introducing a management reporting system. A `reporting needs analysis' will be carried out to
identify the management decisions that can be improved bythe availability o fregular
information through reports that can be generated automatically bythe various data banks and
sent to the managers for use indaily operations.




                                                   37

                                             Annex 5: Program Costs


The Health Sector Program i s currently estimated to be US$498.28million over five years from
July 2004to July 2009. Cost breakdowns byprogram areas, as appraised, are summarizedin
Table 1below inbothcurrent Nepalese Rupees and current U S dollars. Costs were estimated in
2004/05 prices andtranslated into current prices, usingIDAprojections of localinflation andU S
dollar/rupee exchange rates. N o separateprovisions were made for price contingencies.

                                   Table 1: EstimatedProgram Costs

                                        InCurrentNPRupees(Million) InCurrentUSDollar (Million)
                                                  2005106 to                         2005106 to
ComponentsProgramOutputs               2004105 11 2008109 21 Total 31 2004105 11 2008109 21 Total 31


I.Decentralizedand
StrengthenedServiceDelivery
A.1Essential HealthCare Services         4,398.75  24,061.96   28,460.71      58.11      287.21    345.32
A.2 BeyondEssential HealthCare
Services 41                              1,206.09   5,561.52    6,767.62      15.93       66.38     82.32
B.Decentralization                          42.99     227.85      270.83       0.57        2.72     3.29
D.PrivateNGO Sector Development             40.00     238.20      278.20       0.53        2.84      3.37
II.Organizationaland
Management Capacity
Strengthening
A. Sector ProgramManagement                106.69     562.71      669.40        1.41       6.72      8.13
B.HealthFinancing                           69.00     365.94      434.94        0.91       4.37      5.28
  Resource Management
C. Logistic Management                     423.42   2,288.82    2,712.24        5.59      27.32     32.91
D.HumanResource Development                226.06    1,146.14   1,372.19        2.99      13.68     16.67
E.IntegratedMIS                              12.90     69.04       81.94        0.17       0.82      0.99


Total Program Costs                      6,525.90  34,522.18   41,048.08       86.21     412.07    498.28


Note:
The constant purchasing parity exchange rates have been applied:for 2004/05 to 2008/09 -- US$I=Rs.75.7,
Rs. 78.9; Rs. 81.9; Rs. 85; Rs. 88.2 respectively.

11 FY2004105 Program Costs are based on the Annual Work Plan. They were discussed with the
Government during appraisal and deemed adequate, although, inkeeping with the Framework's emphasis on
annual agreements, IDAIDfIDappraised the 2004105 Program indetail.
21 The assumption usedfor the year 2 to 5 costs were based on an annual increase o f (i) Costs (15%);
                                                                                      Capital
(ii) Costs(10%); and(iii)
   Salary                        Non-Salary recurrent costs (10%).
31 The amounts exclude additional resources that are executed by donors directly. Based onthe Public
Expenditure Review of the Health Sector (July 2003), these amountedto about US$50.0 million per annum
41 This refers to Hospital Management & Services.




                                                        38

The Programwill have three sources o f funding: HMGN,pooling donors and other donors The
IDACredit andGrantproceedstogether withDffDgrant will bepooledwith HMGNresources
to finance the Program, usingthe government system to disburse and account for the funds.
Parallelprogram support from other donors will also be available. The Programbudgetby
fundingsource is indicatedinTable 2:

           Table 2: Sources of Financing (FY2004/05 to FY2008/09)
                                    Current US$ Million


                                                                Total              Share


ProgramRequirements                                                498.28            100%

Government Contributions                                           285.61              57%

Co-financiers (Pool Fund)                                           86.75              17%
IDA Credit                                                           10.00              2%
IDAGrant                                                            40.00               8%
DFIDGrant 1/                                                        36.75               7%

Other ExistingBxpected 2/ 3/                                       125.92              25%
Assistance


TOTAL                                                              498.28             100%



 Note:
      a. The %share of IDA inpooledfund expenditures will be determinedfor each FY
      b.   Under the JFA,IDA and DJlD will track entire MOH expenditures.

11 DfIDwill make available to HMGN a grant oftwenty millionpoundsto co-finance the Program. The
exchangerate used for U S dollar equivalent was basedonthe June 7,2004 rate of 1.83765.

21 Other existingprojectsoutside the pooling arrangementinclude GAVI, GLOBALFUND, GTZ, JICA, KFW,
Swedish InternationalDevelopment CooperationAgency, UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID, andWHO.

31 Historically, the expenditure for the foreign aidedprojectshas only beenan average of40%. (Source: Public
ExpenditureReviewof the Health Sector, MinistryofHealth, 2003)




                                                         39

                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements


Partnership arrangements
The Programis supported bythe key sector development assistancepartners -- DflD, GTZ,
JICA, UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID, WHO andthe World Bank. All these partners participatedin
developing the Health Sector Strategy (HSS) andthe Nepal Health Sector Program -
ImplementationPlan(NHSP-IP). A Statement o f Intent, that provides for a formal working
partnership and a framework for joint planning,programming andperformance review, including
principles, processes andimplementationprocedures for the partnership, has been agreed and
formally signed by the HMGNand the sector donors. It has established a Health Sector
Development Partner Forum, with the Health Secretary as the Chair, that will meet quarterly for
formal dialogue between the Ministryo fHealth (MOH) and its partners. Joint plans and
programs will continue to be developed within a flexible financing and implementation
framework that allows individual partners to provide support to the M O H inline with their
organizatiodagency's mandate, mechanisms and procedures. While most partners will finance
the sector Program on a parallel basis, DfID andIDA will support it bypoolingtheir funds to
support aproportion o fMOH's expenditures against its annual budget.

A Joint FinancingArrangement (JFA) sets forth the agreedprovisions andprocedures for
financial support to the health sector Program. The pooling partner's support andthis JFA will
apply to the part o f the global MOH expenditures that are not financed by direct contributions
providedbyother donors. The JFA will be formally signed byHMGN,DfIDandIDA. The JFA
will strengthen the co-ordination framework for consultation already established through the
Statement o f Intent on the sector Programplanning,budgeting, decision-making and monitoring,
joint reviews o fperformance, commonprocedures on disbursement, reporting and audits. The
pooled funds will be deposited ina government account to be managed by the MOHthrough the
government budget andFMprocedures, and largelythrough government's procurement
procedures.

Institutiona1and implementation arrangements
The sector Program will be implementedthrough the existing M O H structures andprocesses.
The Policy, Planning and InternationalCooperation Division(PPICD) o f the MOHwill have the
overall responsibility for Program implementation. The PPICD will: facilitate stakeholders'
efforts, provide technical backstopping, andmonitor Program implementation. The existing
capacity will be supplemented by contracting consultants to assist the MOHinprocurement, FM
and contractingNGOs and the private sector. The existing Health Sector Reform Committee,
chairedby the HealthMinister, with membership fiom other key Ministries, NGOs, private
sector anddonors, will leadthe reformprocess.

MinistrvofHealth: The MOHis responsible for policy direction andplanning; humanresource
policies and mobilization; financing andFM; and monitoring and evaluation. It has three
departments under it, namely, the Departments ofHealth Services (DOHS), Ayurved (DOA) and
DrugAdministration (DDA). A Director General (DG) heads the DOHS with six divisions, each
headedby a Director. These are: the Management Division, the FamilyHealthDivision, the
Child Health Division, Epidemiology andDisease Control Division, Leprosy Control Division,
andLogistics ManagementDivision. Also five centers, eachwith a degree o f autonomy, support


                                                40

implementation; these are: the NationalHealth Training Center; the National HealthEducation,
Information and Communication Center; the National Tuberculosis Control Center; the National
Center for AIDS and STD Control; and the National Public HealthLaboratory.

Department of Health Services: The DOHS and other departments are responsible for program
development, implementation, use o f andaccountability for allocated funds, staff mobilization,
monitoring and evaluation. There are five Regional Directors who directly report to the MOH.
They are responsible for programsupervision andtechnicalbackstopping. Regional andZonal
hospitals have decentralized authority through the Hospital Development Boards. At the
regional level, there are also Regional Training Centers, Laboratories, TB Centers andmedical
stores.

At the district level andbelow, District Development Councils andVillage Development
Councils are responsible for the delivery o fhealth services. The MOHdistrict management
structure varies: sixty-one districts are managedby the District Health Officers with support
from the District Public Health Officers (DPHO), andthe remaining 14 are managed by the
DPHOs. Below the district level are Primary Health Care Centers (178), HealthPosts (705) and
Sub-Health Posts (3,129).

The Department o f DrugAdministration is a regulatory authority, responsible for regulating the
quality, import, export, production, sale anddistributionof drugs.

LocalHealthManagement Committees consist o f eight members under the VDC chair (currently
the former VDC Secretary). These are: SHP in-charge, a Female Community HealthVolunteer,
a teacher, a Dalit woman, and a male and a female locally respected persons, all nominatedby
the DPHO. To beginwith, LHMCswill manage the SHP budget andcertify staff attendance.

Financialmanapement: The PPICDwill manage the implementation o fFMImprovement Plan
to help ensure that FMarrangements work satisfactorily.

There are experienced FMstaff inthe MOHwho have been exposed to government accounting
system anddonor requirements, and are capable o f handlingthe sector Program accounts.
National consultants will be appointed fi-om time to time to support the FMwork under the
Program. DfID and IDAhave agreed to support MOH's sector Programbypooling their
contribution andby disbursing against a proportion ofMOH's annual budgeted expenditures. A
trimesterly Financial MonitoringReport indicating financial andphysical progress andprogress
inprocurement will be submittedbythe MOHto DfIDandIDA. This reportwillbebasedon
the government's reporting system under whichfinancialreports are generated on a trimesterly
basis. The Office o f the Auditor General will audit the sector Program.

A timeboundFMImprovement Planhas been agreedto address the weaknesses identified inthe
FMassessment(Please seeAnnex 7 onFM, includingfinds-flow arrangements).




                                                41

                                  Annex 7: FinancialManagement


Country Financial Issues

The Nepal Country Financial Accountability Assessment, jointly conductedbyHMGNandIDA
in2002, concludedthat the failureto complywiththe impressivelegalandregulatoryfiduciary
framework makes fiduciary risk inNepal ``High'' by the standards o fthat framework. Faithful
implementation o f the framework would havebrought risks closer to good practices found in
developed countries. Fiduciaryrisk inNepal i s similar to that inmost developing countries.
The Government has put inplace a sound FMsystem, with the introductiono f a computerized
IntegratedFinancialManagement Information System. The Financial Management Information
System, which i s an integrated systemconnecting 64 out o f 75 districts (of which, 57 are
currently functional), allows the FCGO to receive on-line expenditurereports from District
Treasury Controller Offices (DTCO).

The development budgetwas prioritized in2002 (as part of a three year MTEF), andthe number
o fprojects/programs was substantially reduced. Priority projects are required to prepare trimester
work plans with detailed output/physical achievement targets and expected results. Expenditure
reporting and fund release procedures are now linked to performance for these projects andwill
be extended to all other projectdactivities. Informationonbudget allocations, expenditures and
outputs are published, andmade available to the public. A web portal for HMGN,containing
information onprojects and activities has been created, with links to government departments.

Starting from FY2005, HMGNhas reclassified expenditures under the regular anddevelopment
budgets as recurrent and capital expenditures. The Government has also constituted the
Accounting Standards Board andAuditing Standards BoardinMarch, 2003, which since then,
have released four Accounting Standards and eight Auditing Standards, respectively.
Implementation of the development action planas agreed inthe Country Financial
Accountability Assessment for the public andprivate sectors, is satisfactory.

Health Sector Program and FinancingPlan

HMGNhas developed theHSSwiththe support ofthe WorldBank,DFIDandother sector
donors. The Bank and DflDwill set an example for other partners by disbursing financing
throughthe government system and against the governmentbudget, emphasizing government
ownership andcapacity. The SWAP and decentralization are key Program approaches to sector
strengthening and service delivery improvement. The Bank will bringexpertise in
decentralization, public-private partnerships, management, pro-poor health strategies, multi-
sectoral action for AIDS, monitoring andevaluation. Inthe context o f the SWAP, the Bank's
expertise will complement that o f DflD (health financing, safe motherhood, TB andAIDS),
USAID (child health, family planning), GTZ (district healthplanning and humanresources for
health), WHO (health policy development, communicable disease control, service delivery
standards) andUNFPA (reproductive health andinformation systems). Other bilateral donors
include Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, India, UNICEF, UNAIDS, and EU.There are some
intemational NGOs (INGO) and global funds which are also supporting the Program.




                                                 42

The sector Programthat HMGNand sector donors arejointly financing is the total MOH
expenditure, including the development andregular financing. This Programincorporates
planningandmonitoring ofthe contributions o fHMGN,pooldonors (DflD andIDA), andnon-
pool donors. The Pool Donors have committed to harmonizationprinciples reflectedinthe Joint
Financing Arrangement (FA). HMGNfinance andpooled funds will use government systems
to disburse and account for funds andwill align with HMGN's budgetary and accountability
systems. The JFA sets forth thejoint provisions andprocedures for financial support to the
sector Program and serves as a coordination framework for consultation betweenthe Signatories,
for program monitoring and decision-making, joint reviews o fperformance andcommon
procedures on disbursement, reporting and audits.

TheFinancial Management System

MOH's PPICD will have the overall responsibility for coordination and oversight ofProgram
implementation. The M O Hwill manage the Programincoordinationwith other line agencies
mainly through (e.g., DOHS andits divisions, Department o fDrugAdministration, Department
o fAwed), other ministries, INGOs, NGOs, andprivate organizations. Actual implementation
o fthe Programwill take place through the DOHS andthe district, sub-district, and community
level stakeholders. The PPICD andPublic HealthAdministration Monitoring & Evaluation
Divisionwill facilitate stakeholders' efforts, providetechnical backstopping andmonitor
Program implementation. The Finance Divisionwill manage the implementation o fFM
Improvement Plan to help ensure that FMarrangements work satisfactorily.

MOHwill beresponsible and accountable for accounting andreporting for the health sector
Program supported bypooled donor funds, which will be reconciledwith FCGO records. FCGO
will provide on-line connection o fits information system to MOH; the Under Secretary
(Finance)/Controller o fthe MOHwill extract detailed financial information o f the sector
Program that comes out o fthe FCGO system, compile andverify it and get it endorsed byFCGO
before submitting to PoolingDonors. The MOHwill maintain inspreadsheets the accounts o f
pooled funds identified by respective budget codes inaccordance with the government's cash-
based accounting system. The accounting systems contain the following features: (a)
application o fconsistent cash accounting principles for documenting, recording, andreporting
financial transactions, (b) well-defined chart o f accounts that enables a meaningful
summarization o f financial transactions for financial reporting, (c) asset register, (d) monthly
closing andreconciliation o f accounts and statements, and (e) production of annual financial
statements acceptable to all donors. These FMarrangements, including key components
described below, are adequate to meet the minimumFMrequirements for the Program.

PlanningandBudgeting

The budgeting procedures for preparation, approval, implementation, andmonitoring are
elaborated inthe FAR. At the beginning o f each FY, the National Planning Commission (NPC)
andMOF set budget ceilings for all lineministries basedonHMGN's development policy and
availability o f financial resources. These agencies also issue budget preparation guidelines,
which are passed on throughthe ministries to subordinate units. Work programs andbudgetsare
then prepared by these units and consolidated for submissionto the NPC andMOF. MOHhas in


                                                  43

place the operational directives which describe the roles andresponsibilities o f various
implementingunits    .

The PoolingDonors have committed themselves to the principles o fharmonization as reflected
inthe Statement o fIntentto guidethe Partnership for Health Sector Development, andto strive
to reach the highest degree of alignment with the budgetary and accountability system and
legislationo fNepalto improve implementation and reduce HMGN's administrative burden. The
Pooling Donors will provide their indicative contributions inOctober for the following FY and
give an indication o f planneddisbursements for the two out-years of the MTEF.Finn
commitments will be provided duringthe June review. The PoolingDonors andHMGNwill
agree on their respective shares o f the budget expenditures for the sector Program for the coming
FY. Changes within the year o fcommitments or schedule o fdisbursements bythe Pooling
Donors or additional commitments from new donors becoming signatories to the JFA will be
discussed and agreed uponbetweenthe JFA Signatories before such adjustments are made. This
i s a full-fledged sector-wide Programandthe PoolingDonor disbursements will be based on the
MOH's annual expenditures under the budget.

Staffing

The FinanceDivisioninthe MOH is headed by a senior officer supported by eight accounts staff
(5 officer level and 3 assistant level). At least one staff will be dedicated to maintainthe
accounts o f health sector expenditure financedthrough the poolingarrangement; the rest o f the
staff will maintain accounts financed by the donors outside the pool. Each cost center will be
staffed by at least one accountant who will be responsible for maintaining the accounts in
accordance with government procedures, and for submitting monthly statements o f expenditures
to MOHandDTCO. While it may take some time for MOHto receive monthly expenditure
statements from its cost centers, such statements are promptlytransmitted through network
connectivity between the DTCOs andthe FCGO. To enable the MOHto obtain andreconcile
the requiredaccountinginformationmore speedily, on-line accessto the FCGOdatabasehas
beenprovided. The MOHwill take the leadinmonitoring expenditures at the district level, and
to train new staff.

Internal Controls

The financial accounting policies andprocedures inplace are sufficient to ensure that the
Program complies with minimumFMrequirements. These include the establishment o f intemal
controls andproper accounting procedures described inthe FAR. DHOs are responsible for
maintaining district level accounts bybudget heads. DHOs forward monthly expenditure
statements to the departments andthe respective DTCOs. The MOHalso prepares a
consolidated expenditure statement for the health sector Programbased on expenditure reporting
byDHOs. The MOHperiodically reconcilesthis information withinformation generatedbythe
FCGO's database.

The Constitutiono fNepal mandates the Auditor Generalto carry out performance audits in
addition to financial audits. As such, the MOH andPooling Donors will rely on these audits to
assess the Program impact.



                                                  44

The DTCOs are responsible for monthly internal audits o f all district cost centers; however, in
some districts, these audits are not undertakenina timely manner due to a lack o f staffing, weak
capacity and/or remoteness o f cost centers. Inorder to address this deficiency, a supervision
mechanism will be put inplacewhereby M O Hwill recruit independent reviewers,
professionally qualified audit firms, to visit districts and evaluate the work o f DHOs andthe
communities. The reviewerswill submit an independent assessment to the MOHwith
recommendations for improvement.

Assurances o f effective grant utilization will be obtained through a system o fpublic disclosure o f
statements o f accounts by communities benefiting from the Program funds. The LHMCswill
mandate that entities receiving grants will be subject to /public audit. The respective DHOs will
monitor the findings. Joint supervisionmissionswill be organizedbyPooling Donors.

FinancialReporting,MonitoringandDisbursement

MOHwill use the government reporting system to the extent possibleto prepare andsubmit the
FinancialMonitoringReport (FMR) on a trimester (four months) basis, duly certifiedbythe
FCGO, within 45 days o fthe end o f eachtrimester. These reports will provide the basis for
disbursement by Pooling Donors each trimester into a foreign exchange (FE) account established
at the Nepal RastraBank (NRE3). The FMRwill constitute the followingreports:

             a. for each trimester and year to-date, a report on the transfers to and withdrawals
                 from the Foreign Exchange (FE) account, with a copy o f the bank statement for
                 the account;

             b. consolidated financial report for allocations andexpenditures from the budget
                 heads, comparing actual andbudgeted figures bybudget line, for the trimester and
                 cumulatively for the FY to-date;

             c. consolidated statement o f expenditures by sources of financingandbyprogram
                 activity;

             d.      cash forecast statement for the following two trimesters accounting for the
             current balance inthe FE account; and

             e. procurement management report for procurement above the threshold and update
             on the procurement plan.

To substantiate the financial statements andprocurement report, a narrative Implementation
Progress Report of the Programwill be submitted annually. Formats for the FMRs andthe
Implementation Progress Reports have been discussed and agreed at the Negotiations. In
addition, MOHwill produce a consolidated annual progress report on outputs andprocessed for
the previous year balance (inthe format decided uponbetween the Signatories of the Statement
o f Intent) to be submitted byDecember 31.




                                                   45

Onanannualbasis, MOHwill compile andsubmit the un-audited annual financial statements for
the entire health sector Program by April 15tho f the following FY, comparing actual and
budgetedfigures by cost center and line item. The annual financial statements for health sector
program will include: (a) summary o f Sources andUses o fFunds; (b) uses of funds byprogram
activity; (c) summaries o f statements on PooledAccounts andnon-pooled accounts; and (d)
notes to financial statements.



     Topic          RiskAssessment                       Comments/ Recommendations
InherentRisk
Country             H                  The Country Financial Accountability Assessmenthasrated
                                       country FMriskas High,primarily due to the failure to comply
                                       with the legal and fiduciary framework. This i s beingmitigated
                                       byclose monitoring ofthe CountryFinancial Accountability
                                       Assessment actionplan to improvepublic financial
                                       management.
                                       M O Hhas been working with various donor partners and,
                                       therefore, has experience o fhandling a large share of health
                                       expenditures. M O Hhas recently taken a number o f initiatives
                                       whichincludepreparingthe operational directives,
                                       institutionalizingjoint planning and budgetingexercise, and
                                       establishing a good monitoring system.

FundsFlow                              Fundsflow is well-defined. However, delays infunds flow to
                                       sub-health posts persist. This will be mitigated through close
                                       monitoringbyPooling Donors. Delayedfunds flow from
                                       donors i s also likely. The FA, which explicitly states the
                                       obligation of Pooling Donors for timely release o f funds, will
                                       helpto enforce discipline inthis area.
Staffing            H                  MOHhas a very competent andqualifiedFinance Controller
                                       who i s leading on the management of the health expenditures.
                                       However, there i s a riskof trained staff being transferred.
                                       HMGNhascommittedthat stafftransfers will take placeasper
                                       civil service rules, i.e., transfer not before two years of service at
                                       a cost center.
External Audit      M                  The Supreme Audit Institute, Office o f the Auditor General, is
                                       the statutory auditor. Audit arrangements are satisfactory.
                                       FMRswill beprimarilybasedonthe government reporting
Reporting and                          formats for financial and procurement reports. A monitoring
                                       system will ensure timely submission ofreports.

Assessment
Key: H=High; M=Moderate; L=Low

The implementing agencies, the MOHhas implemented various projects supportedby donors
and, as a result, gained adequate institutional capacity. Overall, the systems, procedures, and
staffing satisfy the Bank's minimumFMrequirements. However, the sector Programstill carries
a moderate risk rating primarilydue to factors relating to country risk, including the current
political instability and frequent transfer of staff.



                                                    46

FundsFlowArrangements

Funds Flowfrom Donors to HMGNto Foreign ExchangeAccount

HMGNwill establish aFEaccount inUnitedStatesDollarswithNRE3to which the Pooling
Donors will contribute funds to be utilized exclusively for the health sector Program. The donors
willprovide indicative fundinglevels for the following FY inthe semi-annual October meeting.
Fundingcommitments, which take into account the sector budget and cash flow needs for
Program implementation, will be made duringthe JAR inJune. The Signatories for the JFA
will, inthe light ofthese commitments, determine the donor share inProgramfunding for the
coming FY. The Pooling Donors will advance into the FEaccount, their share o f the estimated
expenditure for the first two trimesters. For each trimester thereafter, donors will replenish the
FEAccount based onthe FMRs, which indicatethe amount o ffunds utilized duringthe
trimester, the cash balance position o fthe FEAccount, and the cash forecast for the subsequent
two trimesters. Inthe event o f the cashbalance position exceeding funds needed for the next two
trimesters, the FE account will not be replenished. At the end o f each FY, HMGNwill cany out
a reconciliation o f the funds deposited into andwithdrawn from the FEAccount.

The MOF/FCGO i s responsible for certifgng the relevant financial reports. MOFECGO shall
delegate to the MOH for submitting the request for disbursement inwriting to the Pooling
Donors, who will have 10days upon receipt o fthis request to review the attached reports, and
clarify with the MOFECGO andMOH any issues including validity o f cash forecasts for the
following two trimesters.

Funds from the FEAccount will be transferred to HMGN's consolidated fund following
certification of actual expenditures. There will be no direct payment from the FEAccount for
expenditures on imported goods and services. FE currency payments requestedbyMOHwill be
promptlyfacilitatedbyHMGNas per government regulations.

Funds Flowfrom the CentralLevel from MOF to DTCOs and to DHOs)

Untilthe work programandbudgetis approved, allcost centers includingthe DHOs, willreceive
an initial advance through the respective DTCOs, o f one-third o f the previous year's
expenditures or projected expenditures for the first trimester, whichever is greater. MOF arranges
the release o fthese funds through its consolidated find. Following approval o fthe work
program and budget, an adjustments will be made against advances to cost centers. Ifthe
advances are less thanthe approvedtrimester budget, cost centers will receive an additional
amount. As expenditures are incurred, cost centers may request the respective DTCOs for
reimbursement based on monthly expenditure statements. Since the health sector Program is a
priority (Pl) program, fundrelease inthe first trimester is basedon expenditure statements. The
second and thirdtrimester releases are contingent uponperformance, and submission o fphysical
progress reports, as required by Schedule 2 o f the FAR. Ifperfonnance achievedi s at least 80
percent o f the target, funds are released automatically to the cost center. For performance
between 50 to 80 percent, fundrelease i s only made after the DTCO obtains authorization from
the FCGO and the Secretary, MOH. The third trimester budget will not be released if
perfonnance i s less than 50 percent.



                                                 47

Expenditures incurredby cost centers are consolidated by the FCGO. The consolidatedreport,
together with a request for reimbursement, are submittedto the PoolingDonors. Funds are
transferred from the FEAccount to HMGN's consolidated f k d only when the Pooling Donors
provide a confirmation inwriting within 10 days o freceipt o f the reimbursementrequest.


                I              FromForeignExchangeAccountto HMGN ConsolidatedFund




Funds Flow at the District Level From DTCOs to DHOs,DPHOs and other cost centers)

The MOH sends an authorization to DOHS, which i s thereafter passed on to DHOs and other
cost centers to permit them to obtain funds from the respective DTCOs. The DTCOs will get an
authorization from the FCGO to disburse funds to DHOs and other cost centers when these units
appear with a similar authorization from their line ministry. DHOs provide funds to the sub-
healthposts inthe VDCs inthe form ofblock grants to support sub-health posts for operating
costs andpurchase o f drugs andmedicines. Procurement o f consultancy services and goods may
be carried out directly bythe MOH and other cost centers at the center level.




                                                          48

               I               FundsFlowat DistrictLevel




                                  I
                                                     DTCOI    - DTC075

                                                        I         I




Funds Flow at the Community Level @om DHOs to Sub-health Posts of the VDCs)

DHOs or DPHOsrelease block grants to sub-health posts o fthe VDCs through the DDCs on a
trimester basis. Once disbursed, the block grants are considered expenditures incurred. Sub-
healthposts use these grants for their operating costs andfor the purchase o f drugs and
medicines. Sub-health posts maintaintheir books of accounts according to their procedures, and
get the accounts audited on an annualbasis through registered auditors. Sub-health posts also
submit their progress reportsto DDCson atrimester basis, which thensubmitto respective
DHOs. DHOs consolidate such reports andreport to MOH.

Social audits, a mechanism to monitor the use ofblock grants by the community, will be the
primaryvehicle to ensure accountability inthe use o fblock grants bythe sub-health posts.
These audits will be undertakenby a committee comprising three to five members formed by the
local community. The purpose of such a social audit i s to confirm that the grants o fboth types
providedto sub-health posts are used for the intendedpurpose for which the grants have been
provided.




                                                         49

                                  FundsFlow at the District




                           DDC-1                           DDC-I5




ExternalAudit

The health sector Program will be audited bythe Auditor General o fNepal as requiredby the
Constitution of the Kingdom o fNepal. The audit shall be conductedinaccordance with
international auditing standards and under terms ofreference agreed betweenthe Auditor
General andPooling Donors. The Auditor General inhis report will reflect detailed observations
o fthe health sector Program funded byPooling Donors. The audit will also include the audit o f
the FEAccount to ensure that funds from this account are transferred only for the intended
purposes of the health sector Program. Normally audit report of IDA financed projects is due
within six months of the close o fthe FY. The health sector Program is the first full-fledged
sector wide approach inNepal, andit encompassesthe entire health sector expenditures that
appear inthe RedBook (about 76 budget heads -24 under the Regular Budget and 52 under the
Development Budget). Further, the Programhas a nationwide coverage that includes the
remotest districts. Hence, understanding the practical difficulties andthe challenge in
completing the accounts of the entire health sector on time andready for audit, anunderstanding
has been reached duringthe appraisal betweenHMGNandthe Pooling Donors that the audited
financial statements o f the entire health sector will be submitted within 12months after the end
o fthe FY. Inaddition, the Auditor General's Report o f the health sector as it appears inhis
Annual Report will also bemade available to the donors.

Inadditionto the statutory financial audit, the signatories mayrequest performance-related
audits to be undertaken from time to time bythe Auditor General, or at his discretion, by other
appropriate auditors.

For statutory audit purposes, the grantsreleased to communities will be considered as
expenditures andaccounts will be maintained as incurred expenditures, andaudit thereofwill be
based on total grants released.



                                                   50

Sub-health posts will be requiredto publicly disclose statements o f expenditures once a year.
The external auditor willjudge whether grants have been utilized effectively or not through these
reports, and randomvisits to selected communities anddistricts. Ifall reports from DHOs and
communities are maintainedcentrally at the MOHDOHS, the external auditor can complete the
audit based on available documentation at the center. Inthe case o frecordsbeingkept at the
district level, verification and confirmation ofreports will be done through visits by the external
auditor to a random sample of districts.

The following audit reports will be monitored inthe Audit Report Compliance system (ARCS):

ImplementingAgency          Audit                      Auditors     DueDate         ExpectedDate
MOH                         Health Sector Program      OAG           January 15th July 15th
                            Financial Statements
MOF/FCGO                    Annual PooledDonor FE OAG                January 15th July 15th
                           1Account

FinancialManagementImprovementPlan

HMGNandPoolingDonorshaveagreedonatime-boundFMimprovement planto address
weaknesses identified inthe FMassessment, andto further strengthen capacity inMOH.




                                                 51

The FMImprovement Plan i s described below:

 Actions/Activities                                                  Responsibilities Completion
 At the InstitutionLevel-Strengthen FMcapacity inMOHDOHS :
     Financial consultants to support MOWDOHS inmaintaining           M O H            February 2005
     accounts informationina computerizedsystem
     Prepare Sector InvestmentBudget Allocation andProgram
     Reporting Guidelines                                            MOH               December 2004
     Training on financial management andprocurement twice a year     M O H            December 2004
     for staff of cost centres (also invite FCGO, DTCO and other
     concerned agency staff) -the training should include sessionon
     reportingphysical progress as requiredby Schedule 2 o f FAR                       March2005
     Prepare HumanResource Development Planfor enhancing
     capacity infinancial management, and organize training or        MOH
     exposure visits to M O H staff infinancial management                             March2005
     Everyyear, recruit independent reviewers to visit districts and  MOH
     evaluate the work o fDHOs and communities, and share the                          By September
     report with MOHand donor partners                                                 every year



 At the sub-sector Level-Develop FMframework :
     Understandingwith OAG on TOR for the audit for the Program       Pooling Donors   December 2004
     Auditors training on key elements o f the sector Program
                                                                      MOWDOHS/         December 2004
                                                                      OAG

 At the Ministrylevel: Strengthen FM Capacity in the MOH:

     Establisha ProgramMonitoring Committee to monitor the            MOH              September 2004
     sector Program, including action on the audit findings, to be
     chairedby the Health Secretary and consistingrepresentative
     from MOWDOHS, central cost centres, MOF, NPC, FCGO and
     MOLD.



Disbursements

Since the implementation o f the health sector Program starts inFY2004/05, IDA will provide
retroactive financing effective July 16, 2004. IDA grant will be disbursed before the
disbursement o fthe credit begins.




                                                         52

Category allocation to finance health sector Program is as follows:

                             TableC: Allocationof Credit/GrantProceeds

      Category               Amount o fthe Credit       Amount o fthe Grant         Percentage o f
                             Allocated (Expressed       Allocated (Expressed        Expenditures to be
                             inSDR)                     inSDR)                      financed
(1)   Eligible               SDR6,900,000               SDR 27,300,000              Percentage of such
      Expenditure                                                                   eligible expenditures as
      under each                                                                    the Associationmay
      AWPB                                                                          determine fi-om time to
                                                                                    time2


      Total                  SDR6,900,000               SDR27,300,000

 FiduciaryRole andSupervision
Program implementation progress will be continuously monitored bythe Pooling Donors
through the Pooling Donors Working Group (Health) (PDWG/H). The PDWG/Hwill coordinate
 several important tasks associatedwith financial supervision o f the health sector Program. These
tasks include (a) FMRreview andapproval o f eligible expenditures; (b) ex-post reviews at cost
 centers to identifyandreport on any ineligible expenditures and recommendremedial action; (c)
 review o f audit reports and preparationo f a summary o f audit findings for discussion with
 Pooling Donors; (d) periodicjoint supervisionto keep Pooling Donors informed o f emerging
 issues or improvements needed on FM; and (e) monitoring of the FMImprovement Planto
 ensure that adequate progress i s being made.

 RetroactiveFinancing
 To expedite health sector Program implementation, there i s a need for retroactive financing by
 IDA. The Association will reimburse from the proceeds ofthe IDA Credit andIDA Grant,
 payments made for eligible expenditures prior to the Credit/Grant effectiveness date, but after
 July 15,2004, inan aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent o f US$5.0 million. To be
 eligiblefor retroactive financing, procedures for procurement, processing and clearance, are
 subject to the Association's Procurement and Consultant Guidelines with respect to International
 Competitive Bidding(ICB). Inaddition, documentationrequirements for expenditures claimed
 underretroactivefinancing are the same as those for disbursements against paymentsmade after
 the Development FinancingAgreement is signed and effective.




 'For  FY2004/05, itwas decided during the Negotiations to allocate 9% ofthe MOHFY2004/05approved budget,
 an amount equivalent to US$8 million, from the IDA contribution. For the subsequent years, the amount o fIDA
 contribution will be determined annually based uponthe Joint Annual Review o f sector performance and HMGN
 MTEF.


                                                        53

                                      Annex 8: Procurement



GeneralDescription:
The IDA credit/grant will support HMGN's health sector Program as abroadreformprogramfor
the health sector under a Sector-Wide approach subscribed to by all external financiers inthe
health sector, Inaccordance with a Joint FinancingArrangement (JFA), IDA will be pooling
fundswithDfIDandthe Government to support the Program, which covers all activities inthe
health sector. Since the Program is underpinnedby a national strategy and its implementation
will be ledbyHMGN,the basic premiseis to allow government procedures to be followed inall
procurement related areas o f the Program, provided these are satisfactory to the PoolingDonors.

NationalProcurementEnvironment
Publicprocurement is govemedbythe FinancialAdministration Regulations (FAR, 1999).
However, inkeepingwith HMGN's commitment to procurement reform, a second amendment to
the FARwas introduced in2003, bringingprocurement procedures closer to international
(UnitedNations Commission onInternationalTrade Law) andBank procedures. Some
significant variations vis-&vis World Bankprocedures still remaininthe FAR. These are
described inthe Country Procurement Assessment Review and summarized as follows:
    i)Bidopeningatonlyoneplaceandimmediatelyafterdeadlineforbidsubmissionisnot
        mandatory but provided as an option only. (FAR clause 66-6).
    ii)BiddersbiddingforaworkscontractinvitedthroughICBmustworkinajointventure
        with aNepalese construction company or a firmworkinginNepal (FAR clause 73-2-k-
         1).
    iii)InstitutionswheretheGovernmenthas50%ormorecapitalareexemptfromfurnishing
        bidandperformance securities. (FARclause 86).
    iv) Preference for localbidders competing with foreignbiddersinNational Competitive
        Bidding(NCB) (FARclause 58 (3)).

Reform Agenda: HMGNis currently implementing a Procurement ReformProject usingthe
proceeds o f a World BankIDFGrant.The objectives o f this project are:

(a) Prepare a draft Public Procurement Law for Nepal based on UnitedNations Commission on
InternationalTrade Law procedures byJuly 2004. With the expected enactment o fthis Act by
December 2004, the country's public procurement procedures will be inline with international
practices andwould thus be unconditionally acceptable to donors and the Bank. (Untilthis is
enacted, procurement under the proposedprogram will be conducted as per localprocedures save
for the four variations listed above which shall be inaccordance with Bank procedures).

(b) Develop the overall procurement capacity o fHMGNby first developingapoolo ftrainers at
the NepalAdministrative Staff College (NASC). These trainers will inturn conduct regular
courses onpublic procurement for selected Government procurement designated staff,
Accountants and staff o f the Office o f the Auditor General. Therefore, over time this will ensure
that all government offices at bothcentral and district level will have a one or more staff trained
inpublic procurement.




                                                 54

ProcurementArrangements
Althoughthe Department o fHealthServices (DOHS) underthe Ministryo fHealth(MOH) will
bethe nodal agency, under the proposed implementationarrangements, procurementwill be
carried out at three levels:

 I.Centrallevel:TheMOHandtheDOHSwillberesponsiblefortheprocurementof
     centrally procured: (a) minor civil work; (b) consultants for studies andtechnical reviews;
     and(c) goodsincluding commodities, supplies andequipment. Allprocurement shall be
     carried out usingprocedures detailed inthe FAR (withthe four exceptions listed insection
     2, which shall conform to the World Bank's relatedprovisions). CivilWorks contracts
     estimated to cost the equivalent o fUS$l,OOO,OOO or above and contracts for equipment
     estimated to cost the equivalent o fUS$500,000 or above shall be procured through ICB
     following World Bankprocedures. At the regional level there are no procurement
     fimctions.

11. District level: Renovationo fDistrictHospitalsando fallDHODPHO buildings ina
     district shall be undertaken by the concemedDHO/DPHO. Inaddition, these DHOs, DDCs
     or DPHOs will hire: (a) consultants for various training activities; (b) contract NGOs for
      supporting Services Delivery andthe communities they serve; and (c) procure goods
     including drugs, contraceptives, surgical supplies andequipment. All the related
     procurement shall be undertaken nationally following procedures detailed inthe FAR(with
     the four exceptions listed insection 2 which shall conform to the World Banks related
     provisions).

111. Allprocurement relatedto physical improvement o fsub-district facilities, goods and
      services usingBlock Grants provided under the Program, shall be undertakenbythe
      concerned District Development Committee (DDC) following FARor other local
     procedures acceptable to HMGN. For procurement using earmarked grants for sub-posts,
     DDC may use community participation for labor andprocure the materials as per the FAR.
      Procurements o f goods andworks exceeding US$4,000 equivalent per contract shall be
      reviewedby the DHO/DPHO.

ProcurementCapacity
Duringthe Pre-appraisal, anassessment was made o fthe capacity o fthe keyagencies
responsible for implementingthe Program -namely the DOHS andthe DHODPHO -to
undertake procurementunderthe Program. It was concluded that DOHS and DHODPHO are
conversant with the provisions o fthe FARrelating to procurement. Nonetheless, to strengthen
their skills andexperience inpractical implementation, the followingactions are recommended:

At DOHSandDHO/DPHOlevels:
a) Preparation o fManuals, duringthe first six months o f implementation, for DOHS and
    DHO/DPHO staff which shall contain formats for procurement notifications andbid
    documents, andstep-by-step instructions on how these are to be tailored for each specific
    procurement need. The manuals would also include instructions and illustrative examples on
    bids evaluation.
b) Short andregular (annual) orientatiodrefresher courses for concemedDHODPHOstaff.



                                                55

At District Development Committee level:
Since the DDCs have little or no knowledge and experience o f the application o f FARrelating to
procurement, the following capacity buildingmeasures will be necessary:
    a) D D C members shall be provided special training on FARprocurement procedures, and
       preparation o f documentationneededbythe DHODPHO andits consultants. This
       training shall be provided at the beginningo fthe Program, andbefore any procurement i s
       initiated.
    b) A concerted andregular information andeducation media campaign inall districts
        (through radio, TV andprint), supplemented by consultants/NGOs that will tour each
       district to interact with the DDCs andcommunities concerned on the role and
       responsibility o fthe DDCs, the procedures that will apply for Programimplementation,
        andthe participatory andsupervisory role o fthe community. Ifrenovationo fZonal
       Hospitals i s to be carried out, the Hospital Superintendent will be responsible but will
       work incoordination with DDC

Review Mechanisms
District procurement: All procurement actions which, as per the FAR, require N C B and exceed
an estimated cost equivalent to US$lOO,OOO shall be subject to prior review bythe concerned
DHODPHO. The DHODPHO staff deputedto Sub-Health Posts, Health Posts andPrimary
Health Care Centers shall also monitor andreview contract progress and administration. Besides
review by the HMGN's regular internal audit and annual audit teams, procurement-related
documents shall also be reviewed, on a sample basis, by Independent Review Consultants hired
bythe poolingpartners (IDAandDflD).

All the districts receiving block grantdfundsunder the Program shallmaintain records, and
documentationpertaining to all procurement. When requested, these records shall be made
available to community representativesconcerned with DDCs oversight, the DHODPHO, and
Independent Review Consultants hiredbythe pooling partners.

Department ofHealth Services: Except for ICB procurement, which shall be as per procedures
provided inthe Bank's Guidelines and shall be subject to the Bank's review at each stage of
procurement, all other procurement shall be conducted inaccordance to the FAR, and shall be
reviewedby HMGN's regular internal audit and annual audit.

Inaddition, allWorks contracts estimatedto cost the equivalent ofUS$l,OOO,OOO or more, and
Goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o fUS$250,000 or more shall be subject to the
Bank's prior review. All contracts with consultant firms with estimated value o fUS$200,000 or
more, andcontracts with individuals costing the equivalent o f $25,000, or more shall be subject
to the Bank's prior review.

Further, a selective annualreview o fprocurement at DHO/DPHOlevelwill be conducted by
independent Review Consultants employed by the pooling partners.




                                                  56

ProcurementPlanning
The DOHS is finalizing a procurement planfor the first 12months. This planwill provide
details on procurement activities, the procedures to be followed (e.g. N C B,QCBS), estimated
values and review requirements. It will cover all items to be procured under ICB.

                        Table A, Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements

This is not applicable since the pooleddonor resources, which will beblendedwith government
resources, cannot be attributedto any specific set o f activities under the program.

                     Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods andPrior Review'

                                ContractValue                                 ContractsSubject
 ExpenditureCategory              Threshold               Procurement         to Prior Review
                                      (US$)                  Method             (US$ millions)
1.Works                      > 1,000,000                       ICB
 (Construction and           < 1,000,000                   As per FAR                 0.0
renovationo f health
facilities)
2. Goods
 a) Supplies, equipment,      >500,000                         I C B                  5.3
printinganddrugs for          <500,000                     As per FAR
program components.

3. Services' (Training,
surveys, studies)
Firms:                        >200,000                      QCBS, QBS,                0.5
                              <200,000                      As per FAR

Individuals:                  >25,000                       As per FAR                0.2

         'Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult OD 11.04 "Review o f
         Procurement Documentation" andcontact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for
          uidance.
         'For contracts estimated to cost less thanthe equivalent o f US$200,000 the shortlist may
         consist entirely o fNational consultants.

                         Total value o f contracts subject to prior review: 6.0 million

OverallProcurementRiskAssessment
The overallprocurement risk assessment for the programat two o fthe three levels (Le. at District
levels) i s ratedhigh, andthat for the Department o f Health Services as moderate.

Frequencyof supervisionmissions
Once every 6 months for poolingpartner representatives, and once every year for Independent
Review Consultants.



                                                   57

                             Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis


I.Introduction

The objective o f the Health Sector Programi s to assist His Majesty's Government o fNepal
(HMGN)implementthe Health Sector Strategy (HSS), which aimsto expand accessto, and
increase the use of, essential healthcare services especially bythe under-served populations.
More specifically, the Programwill (i)  support increased access to essential health care services
along with management reforms at the Ministryo fHealth (MOH), (ii)      ensure that a larger share
o fthe M O Hbudget is spent onproviding essential health care service, and (3)increase the
Government's budgetary allocationto MOH from 5 percent to 7 percent over the five years o f
the program. This annex discusses the key findings o f the economic and financial analysis andi s
organized along the following sections: sector environment, financing and cost effectiveness.

11. Sector Environment

A. Composition o fHealthExpenditures

Relative to its South-Asian neighbors, Nepal spends a higher share o f its GDP on health
expenditures. According to the UNDP HumanDevelopment Report3, in2000 Nepal spent 5.6
percent o f its GDP on health. For comparison, India, the next highest spender inthe region,
spent 5.1 percent of its GDP on health over the same period. Despitethese expenditures Nepal
ranks poorly inthe region across keyhealth indicators andmany o fthe health related MDGs are
seriously off-track. The country has one of the highest infant andmaternal mortality rates and
the lowest life expectancy at birthinthe region.

One o fthe failings o fhealth expenditures inNepal has beenthe inability o f health spendingto
reach the poor anddisadvantaged through affordable access to health service. Unlike its South-
Asian neighbors, most o fNepal's expenditures come from private out-of-pocket contributions,
which in2000 accounted for approximately 70 percent o ftotal health expenditures (3.6 percent
o f GDP). The poor anddisadvantaged inNepal are less capable o f accessing health services
through private out-of-pocket contributions and are predominantly reliant onpublic health
services that are currently inadequatelyresourced to fulfill that demand.

Approximately14 percent o f total health expenditures inNepal are channeled through the
Ministryo fHealthandanadditionalthree percent is spent byotherministries (e.g., Ministryof
Finance, Ministryo f Defense, Ministry o f Education), autonomous bodies (e.g., universities) and
localbodies (DDC, V D C and municipalities). Inaddition, direct expenditures by external
development partners account for another 13 percent o fhealth expenditures.

These estimates o ftotal health expenditure suggest that Nepal spends approximately N R s . 1,200
per-capita (US$16.2 per-capita) on health expenditures. This statistic on per-capita expenditure,
however, must bebalanced against the fact that health spendingis highlyuneven across income



 UNDP, HumanDevelopmentReport2003


                                                 58

groups with the majority o fprivate expenditures coming largely from the few, relatively well off
andare spent primarilyoncurative andtertiary care.

Under the lothP l d R S P , MOHis the line agencycharged with leadingthe implementationo f
the healthsector strategy. However, public provisioning o fhealth services, isbroader than MOH
andexpenditures from other sources (private, other (non-MOH) public agencies anddirect
expenditures by development partners) complement the role o fthe health ministry. Health
expenditures outside o f MOH, particularly private out-of-pocket and direct expenditures by
development partners is fragmented and less clearly understood. Tying those more directly into
a harmonized sector strategy remains one o fthe key objectives o f the healthreform agenda.

B. TrendsinMOHAllocations

Over the last few years because o f the conflict, Government expenditures have been more
severely constrained by implementation and less so by resource limitations. For this reason,
budgetary allocations, rather than actual expenditures, provide a better indication of Government
commitments to health. Issues inimplementationcapacity are, o f course, equally important and
is discussed below inthe section on expenditure. The focus o f this section i s to illustrate
Government commitment to the health sector.

Within the overall budgetary framework, allocations to MOHhave registered a modestincrease.
Except for a decline in2002/2003, which appears to have affected the overall Government
budget, allocations for MOHhas increased marginally fromNRs. 4.6 billionin2000/2001 to
N R s 5.2 billion in2003/2004 (the current FY). The plannedbudgetary allocations to MOH are
expected to increase significantly over the next two years. Based on current forecast, the share
o f Government budget to MOHi s expected to increase to 5.9 percent by 2005/06, up from 5
percent in2000/2001. Table A9.1 illustratesthe trend inMOHbudget allocations.

                  Table A9.1 Trend inMOH Budget Allocations (Actual andProjected)

 (Million NRs.)              200012001 200112002 200212003* 200312004 200412005** 2005/2006**
Total Govt. Budget               91,620     99,792    96,125   102,040      112,917      122,440
    -- Annual Growth                          8.9%      -3.7%     6.2%        10.7%        8.4%
        % Of GDP                    22%       22%         20%      19%          19%         19%
 MoH Budget
    --- Annual                    4,605     5,191      4,872     5,201        6,526       7,276
        Share of Budget            5.0%       5.2%       5.1%     5.1%          5.8%       5.9%
              Growth                         12.7%       -6.1%    6.8%        25.5%        11.5%
        % Of GDP                   1.1%       1.2%        1.O%    1.O%          1.1%        1.1%

* The declinein      budgetary allocations for 2002/03 i s due mostly to the prioritization approach in
the MTEF, which was first implementedthat year. Becausemanyprojectswere cut as a result o f
the prioritization, Government allocations declined. Relative to previous budget projection, the
MTEFnow provides amorerealistic outlook o f future Government commitments to MOH.
** Projections     based on MTEF, MOHannual work andbudget FY 04/05 and indicative budgets
for future years. MOHbudget projections for 2004/05 andbeyondinclude the proposedfunding
from the Program. Inthe absence o fthat support, the M O Hbudget was expected to grow by
12.3 percent in2004/05 andby 12.4percent in2005/06.



                                                   59

Past trends inbudget allocationto MOH suggest that Governmenti s committed to increasing
public expenditures on health. When Government budgets have increased, allocations to MOH
has grown more rapidlythanthe overall Governmentbudget. This impliesthat either savings
elsewhere or that some other part o f the Government budgethave been squeezed out to make
more resources available to MOH. Giventhe increase indefense and security spendingthat have
occurredover this period, the higher levels o fbudget allocation to MOH should be taken as an
indication o f the Government's strong commitment to the health sector.

The current MTEFonly extends out till 2005/06 andno other Governmentprojections onthe
budgetary framework are available for beyond that year. Under the Program, Government has
agreed to raise the share o fbudget to MOH to 7 percent (or N R s . 10 billion) by 2008/09. In
addition to funding levels, the Government has also institutedbetter prioritization o fhealth
sector expenditures through the MTEF. Under the current MTEF, priority 1projects, which
mostly include EHCS, i s projected to increase to 67 percent o f MOHbudget by 2005/06. This i s
a marked departure from previous years, when priority 1projects received only 56 percent o fthe
MOHbudget.

C. Trends inMOHExpenditures

The increase inMOHallocations contrasts quite sharplyagainst MOHexpenditures. Over the
last four years, between 1998/1999 and 2002/2003, MOH expenditures increasedby annual
average o f 6 percent from NRs. 2.8 billion andNRs. 3.8 billion. Over the same period, total
Government expenditures rose by an annual average o f 9 percent from NRs. 59 billion to N R s .
84 billion. As a share o ftotal Government expenditures, spending by MOH declined from 4.8
percent in 1998/1999 to 4.3 percent in2002/2003. Table A9.2 illustrates the trendinMOH
expenditures.
                                 Table A9.2 Trends inMOHExpenditures
*       (Million NRs.)                    199811999 199912000 200012001 200112002 200212003
        Total Govt. Expenditures
            - Annual                         59,579   66,272     79,835    80,072     84,006
                      Growth                            11.2%     20.5%      0.3%       4.9%
        MoH Expenditures
            --- Per                           2,830     3,373     3,472     3,811      3,596
               Share of Govt. Expen.           4.8%      5.1%      4.3%      4.8%       4.3%
               Annual Growth                            19.2%      2.9%      9.7%      -5.6%
                   Capita (Rs.)                 126       147       150       163        150
        Direct EDP Expenditures*                        1,377     2,437     3,309
        Govt (non-MoH)Agencies*                           506       774       907
        Total Public HealthExp.                         5,256     6,683     8,027

        Per Capita Public Health Exp (NRs)                230       288       343
        Per Capita Public Health Exp (NRs
        in I999100 prices)                                230       278       310

Direct EDP expenditures reflect spending by external development partners that are not included
inthe Government annual accounts. This andexpenditures bygovernment (non-MOH) agencies
were based on data reported inthe Public ExpendituresReview of the Health Sector, July 2003,
which only covered the three years 1999/2000 - 2001/2002.




                                                   60

Though MOH expenditures have been erratic andoftennot keptpace with overall Government
spending, it has made a perceptible impact onper-capita terms. On average, expenditures by
MOHhave grown faster thanpopulation andper-capita spendinghas increased from
approximatelyNRs.127 in 1998/1999 to NRs.150 in2002/2003, peaking at NRs.163 in
2001/2002.

The moderate rise inMOH expenditures has been supplemented by strong increases inpublic
health spending from other sources. Between 1999/2000, the only years for which data i s
currently available, direct expenditures by external development partners, increased 50 percent
from NRs.1.4 billion to NRs.3.7 billion. Over the same period, health expenditures by other
(non-MOH) agencies increased by 80 percent from NRs.500 million to NRs.900 million.
Collectively, inper-capitaterms, total public expenditures have increasedby approximately 50%
over the three years, from NRs.230 (US$3.5) to NRs.343 (US$5.1) or by 35 percent inreal
terms.

D. Allocation-Expenditure RatiosinMOHSpending

Allocation and expenditure trends inMOHspending indicate a widening under-spend o f MOH
budgets. On average, between 1999/2000 and 2001/2003, years for which data i s currently
available, total M O Hunder-spend o f allocated budgets has been around 20 percent. Trend from
the three years suggest that most ofthe under-spend occurredwithin the EDP financed
development budget. Figure A9.1 illustratesthis trend.

                  Figure A9.1 Expenditure-Budget Ratio for MOH Expenditures




                             -+-Total MoH         a.Regular
                             .-*- EDP Development *    HMGN Development


M O H have pointed that under-spend inthe EDP often occur because a variety o f different donor-
specific fund release systems are used andthe complexity slow down actual disbursements.
Additionally, some o fthe EDP financed development budget is based on the estimated value o f
in-kindcontributions, which can differ significantly from actual expenditures. The sector reform
programme proposed under the sector strategy should help to resolve some o f the problems in
budgetplanning,release andexpenditures.

E. Composition o fExpendituresWithinMOH

Underthe healthsector strategy, MOH expenditures canbe viewed intwo broad categories: (i)
expenditures on EHCS,and (ii)   expenditures on beyond essential, including secondary and



                                                 61

tertiary care. Under the prioritizationmechanism institutedthrough the MTEF, priority 1
projects generally constitute EHCS, while priority 2 and 3 include secondary andtertiary care.

Currently, EHCS accounts for roughly 56 percent o f the total MOHexpenditures. Underthe
health sector strategy, EHCS is expected to increase to at least 65 percent o f total MOHbudget.
The goal o f increasing the share o f EHCS expenditures implies that some reprioritization must
occur within the MOH. This has already beenreflected inthe annual work andbudget for the
upcoming FY, 2004/05. Under the proposed budgetfor 2004/2005, EHCS expenditures will
increase to 67 o f total MOHbudget. Inits indicative future year budgets, the ministry is also
projecting that the share to EHCS will increase to 69 percent by 2008/09. This trend i s
consistent with the vision contained inthe current MTEF, which hadpriority 1projects
increasing to 67 percent by 2005/06.

Wages paidto HMGNpublic servants have increased over the last few years. This has affected
the wage related spending inMOH as well, which increased from 32 percent o ftotal MOH
expenditures in 1999/2000 to 45 percent in2002/2003. Over this same period, non-wage
recurrent increased from 35 percent to 50 percent, while capital expenditures declined
significantly from 34 percent to 5 percent. The decline incapital costs beganin2002/03, whenit
feel fi-om 26 percent inthe previous year, and coincides with the completion inthe construction
ofdistrict hospitals inthe East. The low level ofcapital expenditure, around 5 percent, is also
expected for the current FY.

Under the health sector strategy, capital expenditures are expected to increase significantly with
the expansion inprogram coverage. Inthe indicative future year budgets providedbyMOH,
capital expenditures are projectedto rise to 30 percent bythe second year and to remain at that
level thereafter. Furthermore, inits indicative budget, the ministryhas outlined that starting with
the second year it will seek to reduce, andmaintain, recurrentwage expenditures at 32 percent,
while recurrent non-wage will be maintained at around 39 percent.

111. Financing

A. Resources Available for Public HealthExpenditures

HMGNhasproduceda financing planfor public healthexpenditures o fUSS800millionover
five years. Sources o f financing include HMGN(through MOHand other public agencies) and
direct expenditures by other development partners. The proposed funding support under the
PROGRAM i s included under HMGNfinancing. Under this plan, per-capita public health
expenditures will rise approximately 27 percent innominal terms, from the current levels of
USS5 to USS6.5 infive years. A similar increase i s expected inpublic health expenditures as a
share o f GDP, rising from the current levels of about 1.1percent to 2.5 percent infive years.
HMGN's proposed financing planis presented inTable A 9.3 below.




                                                 62

          Table A9.3 HMGN's ProposedFinancingPlanfor Public HealthExpenditures
                               2004105    2005106   2006107   2007108   2008109    Total
Total MoH (MillionNRs.)           6,526      7,276    8,113     9,046     10,086   41,048
   EHCS (Million NRs.)            4,399      5,072    5,655     6,305     7,030    28,461
DirectEDP (Million NRs.)*         3,785       3,945   4,095     4,250     4,410    20,485
OtherAgencies (Million NRsY         907        907      907       907       907     4,535
Total PHE(Million NRs.)***       11,218      12,128   13,115    14,203    15,403   66,068

Total MoH (MillionUS $)              86         92       99       106        114      498
   EHCS (Million US $)               58         64       69         74       80       345
Direct EDP (Million US $)            50         50       50         50       50       250
Other Agencies (Million US $)        12          11       11        11        10       56
Total PHE(Million US $1             148         154      160      167        175      804

Per Capita PHE(US$)                  6.0        6.1       6.2       6.3       6.5
PHE (% of GDP)                     2.2%       2.3%      2.3%      2.4%
***Health                                                                   2.5%
          expenditures financed directly by external development partners.
***HMGNHealthExpenditures
            expenditures through other (non-MOH) public agencies.
    Public                         (PHE).

The financing scenario presented above represents a base case. Key uncertainty involves the
direct spending by external development partners (EDP) andthe health expenditures mobilized
through other (non-MOH) public agencies. Bothof these have grown rapidlyover the last few
years, direct EDP spending rose by 50 percent between 1999/2000 and 2001/2002 andspending
byother agencies increased 80 percent over that sameperiod. Forplanningpurposes, however,
these have been assumed to remain at 2001/2002 levels. HMGNexpects that the sector
management program will shift from some direct EDP spendinginto the Government's treasury
system, but i s unlikely to affect the total volume. Expenditures through other public agencies are
financedby HMGNand Government i s not expecting any cuts inthese budget categories. The
downside risk to this proposedfinancing plan, therefore, appears to be minimal.

The proposed financing planalso shifts resources into EHCS. Inthe first year, share o fMOH
budget going to EHCS is projectedto increase to 67 percent. This is amarkedchange from
previous years, when EHCS received about 56 percent o f MOH spending. For the remaining
four years, MOH is estimating that approximately 69 percent ofMOHwill go towards EHCS.
This shift inspending from tertiary and secondary care, as outlined inthe indicative budget, is
consistent with the Government's intention inthe MTEF. Under the current MTEF, priority 1
projects, which mostly include EHCS, were to increase to 67 percent by 2005/2006. Priority2
and3 initiatives, which include tertiaryand secondary care, were forecast to decline to 25 and8
percent respectively by 2005/2006.

B. EstimateofResourceNeeds

The Government's proposed financingplanis broadly consistent with estimates o fresource
needs for public health expenditures. Review o f different costing studies indicate that public
health expenditures o f about US$800 -US$1billionmay be required over the five year periodto
meet the health sector targets. Such estimates are generally difficult to pinpoint with accuracy
andthe rangeinthe estimates reflects the uncertainty embedded inthe costingmethodologies.




                                                   63

Estimates o fneed are sensitive to a number o fkey assumptions. One critical assumption i s the
specific target against which the costs havebeen developed. Some o fthe higherrange estimates
reflect targets that are closer to the MDGsthan those proposed for the interim years under the
health sector strategy. An equally important assumption i s the extent to which the cost estimates
have been localized specifically to the Nepali context. Many o fthe cost parameters rely on
international experiences, which are often different from the local cost structures.

Despite the uncertainty inestimates ofresource needs, M O H agree that US$SSOmillion (or
per-capita spending o f about US$7) i s a reasonable estimate ofpublic health expenditure needs
over the next five years. This level o f expenditure is unlikely to suffice for MDGtargets, but in
the interim mayplaceNepalon apathto achievingthe MDGtargets. However, this level o f
expenditures, along with sector reforms, should enhance capacity for service expansion and
better positionNepal for future increases inhealth expenditures.

As illustratedinTable A9.4 below, Government's financing plano f US$SOO million against a
potentialresource need o fUS$SSOmillion, suggests a theoretical financing gap o f about US$SO
million annual over five years. This gap represents about 10%o f the total resources andi s
concentrated inthe latter halfo fthe five years when expansion costs are likely to be high.

            Table A9.4 Comparison o f Theoretical Financing Need andResources Available

MillionUS $                             2004105        2005106      2006107      2007108       200aiog      Total
 Estimated Need                               148            162           175         191          204          a80
 ResourcesAvailable                           I48            154           160         167          175          a04
TheoreticalFinancingGap                         (0)           8             15          24            29          77
 % of PublicHealth Expenditures                              5%            10%         14%          17%          10%

Thoughthe financing gap is highlyuncertain at this time, MOHhas recognizedthat it couldpose
a riskto the overall program. Through the MTEFthe ministry has already instituted a budget
rationalizationprocess that will safeguard key priorities areas incase o f resource shortfalls.
Priority 1projects, which are assured funding under the MTEF and constitute the majority o f
EHCS initiatives, are projectedto increase to 67 percent o f MOHbudget inthe first year and to
rise to 69 percent inthe second to fifthyear. Over the period o f five years, the US$345 million
earmarked for EHCS could be entirely funded through Government expenditures alone. Should
a financing gap become real, it i s likely to squeeze expenditures on secondary andtertiary care,
which make up the bulk o fpriority 2 and 3 initiatives inthe MTEF.

To further mitigate against the risks o f a financing gap, andfor the dual purpose o f enhancing the
overall efficiency o f spend, MOHhas also agreed to introduce additional measures. These
include increased domestic and external resource mobilization for health, efficiency gains,
rationalizing collection anduser fees andtapping into private expenditures. At this point,
however, the financing gap remains theoretical anddoes not undermine the overall objectives o f
the program. Outturn from the first two years o f the program will provide a better assessmento f
need and capacity. Should a financing gap remain at that time, MOHhas agreed to use the Mid-
Term review to examine additional options for financing.


 Based on assessment of cost estimates "Costing of the Nepal Health Sector Program ImplementationPlan with Unit Cost of Essential Health
Care Services," World Bank.February2004.



                                                                    64

C. MediumTerm Fiscal Sustainability

Underthe Government's lothPlanPRSP, andinthe agreement with IntemationalMonetary
Fund(IMF) onthe Poverty ReductionGrowthFacility, HMGNhas announced plansto limit its
fiscal deficit to under 5 percent o f GDP and domestic borrowing to under2 percent o f its GDP.
The sustainability o fhealth sector program, therefore, needs to be assessedagainst these two
limitations.

To implement the healthsector reform, Government has committedto increasingMOH's share
o fthe total budget to 7 percent by 2008/2009. Assuming that Government finances the
increasingshare to MOHthrough expansion o fthe total budget, rather than cuts inother
programs, it will still be comfortably within the targets for fiscal deficit anddomestic borrowing.
The analysis suggests that even with the increased Government expenditures, by 2005/2006 the
fiscal deficit should decline to under 5 percent o f GDP andcontinue to drop fixther inthe out
years. Similarly, by 2005/2006, domestic borrowingas a share o f GDP will be well within 1
percent andremain low inthe out years.

The fiscal impact o f MOHbudgetexpansion is based on the IMFmacro projections from
October 2003 (for the Poverty Reduction Growth Facility) and hinges on two critical
assumptions. First, real GDP growth rates are expected to rebound andremain at around 5.5
percent in2005/2006 andbeyond. Second, tax revenues as a share o f GDP is expected to grow
steadily, rising from 12.4 percent in2003/2004 to 14percent by 2007/2008. Under the IMF
outlook, Nepal was expected to meet the fiscal deficit target by 2005/06.

Since October 2003 when the IMFassumptions were developed, the economical outlook has
changed as a result o fthe deteriorating conflict andpolitical situation. GDP growth projections
for this FYhave beenreduced from 4 percent to 3.5 percent. However, the two fiscal targets are
still achievable under a range o f less optimistic scenarios. Assuming growth levels at around4.5
percent and tax revenues level at around 13 percent beginning 2005/2006, the two fiscal targets
on deficit could be achievedby 2007/2008.

IV. Cost Effectiveness

All the EHCS interventions listedinthe healthsector strategy appear to behighlycost-effective.
For assessingcost-effectiveness, this analysis follows the international decision rule specifiedby
the Commission on Macroeconomic andHealth: "interventions that avert one DALYfor less
than the averageper capita income could be considered very c~st-effective",~The cost-per-
DALY, as ameasure o fcost-effectiveness, alongwiththe cost-per-death avertedfor the EHCS
interventions are summarized inTable A9.4.




  Hutubessy, et. al., Generalized cost-effectiveness analysisfor national-level priority setting in the health sector,
BioMedCentral, 2003.


                                                          65

                         Table A9.4 Cost Effectiveness for EHCS Interventions6

                  Intervention        Cost per DALY (US         Cost per Death Averted (US

             VitaminA                           1.o                           1,405
             TB                                6.5                            972
             Iodine                            8.1                            NA
             EPI                               14.2                           1,115
             FamilyPlanning                    17.7                           927
             I M C I                           24.8                           3,984
             Safe Motherhood                   28.7                           2,320
             Leprosy                           32.1                         126,393
             Outpatient Care                   34.1                           NA
             HIV                               42.5                           1,521
             Vector Borne                      70.2                           5,872

While the suggested cost-effectiveness provides some assurance for publicprovision o fhealth
services, there are other equally important equity and efficiencyjustifications for the program.
Although Nepal spends 5.1 percent o f its GDP on health, private-out-pocket spending finances
70 percent o fthis expenditure. The poor have relatively little access to private contribution for
health and, therefore, primarilyreliant onpublic health services. Inaddition to their inability to
pay for private health services, the catastrophic costs from illness, disability or death are
disproportionately higher for the poor because they are less able to make inter-temporal income
adjustments. An efficient insurance system that serves the poor does not currently exist, though
efforts towards that are being supported by the MOH. Inthe short andmediumterm, public
provision o f health services, supplemented byprivate-public partnerships, i s the only realistic
way o f makinghealth services available to the vast majority o fNepalese.

Evenwith public provisiono fhealthservices, many o fthe poor currently haveno or limited
access. Though 85 percent o f the nation's population live inrural areas, only 51 percent o f total
public health expenditures service rural areas. This suggests failures inboth the scope and
management o fhealth service delivery. The health sector strategy attempts to remedy this
problem by seeking to expand access to, andincrease the use of, health services bythe under-
served populations. The strategy also seeks to bring about management reforms at MOHto
enhance the quality and efficiency o f service delivery. Though private provisioning of health
services maybethe longer-term strategy for Nepal, inthe short and medium term public health
services remain the only realistic option for reachingthe majority ofNepalese.




 TheEssential Health Care Package of Nepal: A Cost Eflective and Cost-Benefit Analysis, Sanigest Health
Solutions (prepared for the World BankMission inNepal), February 11,2004.


                                                    66

                                 Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues


EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP4.01)
The Programbeing supported bythe Bankdoes not envisage any significant construction
activities. However, the Programdoes involve upgrading o f some o fthe existinghealth facilities
andservices that have the potentialto generate healthcare waste, which ifnotmanagedproperly,
can pose risks to bothpeople and environment. Therefore, the safeguard policy on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is triggered requiringthe program to undertake an
Environmental Assessment o fthe Program. The Program aims at improving access and delivery
o fhealth services to the poor, marginalizedcommunities, Dalits, Janajatis andwomen. Thus it
also triggers the Indigenous Peoples Policy (OD 4.20). Dueto the type andnature o f activities
involved inthe Program, mostly designed to improve the health care service delivery through
decentralization, public private partnership andcapacity building, the likelihood o f other
safeguard policies being triggered is expected to be very low.

Further, safeguard policy on environmental assessment i s expected to be largely applicable to the
HealthCare Waste Management (HCWM) components to be implemented as part o f the sector
Program. The level o f environmental assessment to be undertaken for such components would be
described inthe detailed guidelines to be developedbythe Department OfHealth Services.
These guidelines would also include relevant Bank policies and guidelines that would needto be
followed andcomplied with. While implementingvarious technical options for improving
treatment and disposal o fwaste, owners o f such facilities (the healthcare facility owners
themselves or any other private operator) are expected to follow the above guidelines.

EnvironmentalAssessment
An EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) o fthe health sector Programhas beencarriedout to identify
the critical environmental issues associatedwith the Program and explore ways o f addressing
these during the implementation. The EA has identified H C W Mas the critical environmental
issue inthe sector. Medicalwaste poses significant risks to bothpeople and environment as they
contain infectious materials and other hazardous substances. The environmental issues range
from increasingthe risk o f spreading infections to increasingexposure to toxic emissions from
poor treatment and disposal practices.

Being an issue generic to the sector, a review o f the H C W Mpractices inthe country was
undertaken as part o f the EA to assess the present situation andrecommend future course o f
action. International and local consultants undertook the study duringthe program preparation.

Key findings of the HCWMReview Study
Thereview revealed the present practice o fH C W Minthe country to bepoor barringa few,
piecemealefforts to improve the situation. A few health care facilities have taken steps towards
implementing comprehensive waste handlingandmanagement system, including use ofneedle
destroyers and color-coded containers for waste disposal, but at most health facilities, the waste
management i s still far from common international standard. The study established the need for
urgent action interms o f policy, regulation and strategy supported by a time bound action planto
improve H C W Mpractices inthe country.




                                                 67

The HCWMStrategy
Based on the recommendations of the H C W Mreview study, a strategy and action planhas been
developed inconsultation with other MOH, DOHS and its various divisions, Ministry o f
Population andEnvironment, National HumanRights Commission, the private agencies, donor
agencies, NGOs and civil society. Key elements o fthe strategy for improving H C W Mare:
    0   ImprovingH C W Mthroughawareness and education
    0   ImprovingH C W Mthrough regulation
    0   Increasingprivate sector participation inH C W M
    0   Gradual improvement instead o f immediate sophistication
    0   Demand drivenfinancial support to healthcare facilities/institution

The H C W M Action Planrequires significant efforts at different levelsrangingfrom creating
awareness at grass root level to formulating policy/regulation to improveHCWM. Accordingly a
timeboundactionplanhas been developed inline with therecommendedstrategy. The key
activities included inthe actionplanare:
    0   Establishment o f a H C W Mcoordinating agency at the center
    0   Identification o f H C W Mcoordinating agencies at district levels
    0   Making specific budgetary allocation for H C W M inthe overall healthbudget
    0   Enacting H C W Mlegislation
    0   Developing o f H C W MPolicy and guidelines
    0   Disseminationo f H C W MPolicy andguidelines to all stake holders
    0   Awareness and capacity buildingat various levels
    0   Detailed feasibility study o f various technical options
    0   Establishment o f a fimdingmechanism for H C W M activities
    0   Establishing a H C W Information Management System
    0   Invitingproposals from healthcare facilities/ H C W M co-operatives/societies
    0   FundingH C W Mproposals
    0   Monitoringand evaluating the H C W M program.

Cost associated with implementation o fthe Action Planhas been estimated andHMGNhas
agreed to make budget provision. An understanding has beenreached on this with HMGN
duringthe Pre-appraisal mission for the program. The implementation o fthe Action Planand
actual improvement inH C W M and its progress will be monitored andanalyzed. A detailed
monitoring planhas been developed.

Implementationarrangements,monitoring:andevaluation
The MOHhas experience o fimplementingthe IDA supported PFHP(1994-2000) which had
nation-wide coverage with construction andrenovation o f over 500 health facilities. The current
program builds on these experiences. The Government has demonstrated some institutional
capacity, albeit limited bythe recent insurgency disturbances. The institutional framework for
the H C W M Action Planproposes, at the central level, a highlevel Coordination Committee
chaired bythe Director General o f Health Services and its secretariat. Decisions will be
executed bythe Logistics Management Divisionunderthe DOHS incollaboration with donor
agencies including GTZ, andother stakeholders. At the facility level, especially inthe hospitals,
itproposes to form a Waste Management Unit(WMU). Specific terms o freference for the



                                                  68

Coordination Committee andWMU havebeen defined. The role of central level Coordination
Committee will be ensuringa clear definition of waste categories and sources o fwaste; and
regulation on the requirement for H C W MPlans as part o fhealthcare services delivery.

The MOHhas already proposedsuch regulation. This may however needto be reviewed based
uponthe new strategy which is (i)     conduct surveys o fthe o f the amounts o fwaste generated, its
handling, treatment andits disposal all over the country; (ii) detailedguidelines for
                                                                 prepare
H C W M inNepaliand inother ethnic languages and their wide use; (iii)       develop information and
training materials; (iv) prepare documents for code o fpractice for H C W M at various types o f
healthcare facilities; (v) prepare waste management plans for various types o f healthcare
facilities; (vi) investigate the options for collection anddisposal o fH C W through its full
lifecycle (including equipment for collection, transport, storage, treatment etc. o fthe waste); (vii)
cany out feasibility studies to determine the appropriate and cost-efficient options; (viii)
establish policies for the level o f environmental and occupationalhealth and safety standards that
shouldbe achieved; (ix) develop financial mechanisms according to the polluter-pay-principle;
and (x)develop indicators for monitoring the improvement o f H C W Mby level o fhealth care
facilities and for policy monitoring.

It is equally important that the DOHS and Logistics ManagementDivisionare giventhe
necessary resources and authority to take the lead inthe work, includingadditional personneland
hnds for conductingthe various studies andinvestigations. The WMUo feachhealthcare
facilities will have the following responsibilities: (i) internal collection andtransport o f all kinds
o f waste generated at the various departments andwards; (ii)     central storage options; (iii)
procurement anddistribution o fwaste collection equipment andmaterials to all units andwards;
(iv) treatment o fthe H C W ifthe healthfacilities have their owntreatment facility; (v) external
transport o f the waste ifthe health facility is itselfresponsible for sending the waste to a central
treatment facility; (vi) keeping record o fthe amounts o fwaste generated by various categories;
(vii) maintenance o ftransport equipment andtreatment facility; (viii) monitoring o fwaste
segregation; and (ix) collection procedures as well as information to the hospital staff to ensure
proper waste segregation. Technical options are proposed for waste minimization to avoid
wastes, green procurement, reusing andrecycling with outlinedprocedures for each activity.

Capacity Building: At present the MOHdoes not have the required capacity to implement the
Action Plan. The EA has therefore recommendeda capacity buildingprogram (to be fine tuned
as part o fthe larger capacity buildingprogram for program implementation) for various agencies
to be involved inH C W Mactivities. Inthe long run, it is expected that the government agencies
would only play a facilitating role while the private agencies andNGOs are expected to take a
lead inperforming the actual tasks.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Annual progress o f implementation o fthe Action Planand actual
improvement inH C W Mwill be monitored and analyzed. Detailed monitoring plan andreporting
arrangements have beenprepared which could be further fine tuned during implementation. This
also includes reporting to the Bank on a periodic basis.

Consultation: As part o fthe EA, a review o f H C W Mpractices inthe country was undertaken
and findings o fthe study were discussed with several government departments, numerous
private organizations and NGOs. The inputs andcomments received duringthe discussions were


                                                    69

incorporatedwhile developing the strategy and the Action Plan. The draft strategy andAction
Planwere then discussed with several stakeholders inapublic workshop conductedat
Kathmandu duringMarch 2003. Relevant suggestions/comments received duringthe workshop
havebeenincorporatedinto the final document on strategy and actionplan.

The safeguard studies havebeenmade available at the Infoshop. These have also beenput on
the government website http://www.moh.aov.np for public access.

Environmental Clearances: The sector Program as a whole, does not require any environmental
clearance. Normally the health facilities to be renovated were already located inapproved areas
for suchpurposes. DuringProgram implementation, inthe event that the need arises for
construction o fnew health facilities although not envisaged under this Program, site-specific
clearance will be obtained, and all requisite HMGNandWorld Bank safeguard conditions will
be fulfilled.

Community Consultations & Public Disclosure: Community consultation is an integralpart o f
the overall program. The LHMCs anddevelopment boards for specific health institutions are
involved inidentification, planning, design, implementation, operation andmaintenance o f the
healthfacilities and related program activities. Consultations with health service providers, local
government, NGOs, CBOs andother stakeholders will continue throughout the Program
implementationperiod. The draft environmental assessment was discussed with relevant sectors
including the Ministry o f Population andEnvironment, relevant local authorities andNGOs, and
their comments havebeen incorporatedinthe EA. The HMGNhas disclosedthe EA s on their
website, as also discussed it ina large public forum for wider dissemination.

IndigenousPeople (OD 4.20)
The MOHhas developed a vulnerable community healthdevelopment plan(VCDP) drawing
fromthe findings andrecommendations o fthe Social Assessment (SA) andthe Stakeholder
Participatory Framework to ensure that the requirements o fBank advised OD 4.20 are
operationally reflected inthe design o f the program. This will contribute effective
implementationo f social inclusion inthe delivery oft health services. The National health
policy and Second Long-Term Health Plan (1997-2017) including the tenth plandocument o f
HMGNis specific onthe concerno f aparticipatory andinclusive approach for the access and
delivery ofhealth services through special targeting o f the poor andvulnerable groups o frural
andremote areas andwomen andchildren. Lately after implementationo fPRS, the Government
has implementeda policy of reservation o f education scholarship, professional career
development andreserved seats to recruit incivil service .

The specific focus o fthe SA andVCDP were intendedto examine the major social and
institutional barriers that exclude the poor andvulnerable o f disadvantaged communities, while
recommending ways to reduce the barriers and enhance incentives that increase access to the
health services bywomen, adolescent and youths, marginalized groups, Dalits, Janajatis, the
poor from the diverse social groups, andthose with special health needs. MOHwith support o f
international andnational consultants with expertise ingender, indigenous peoples, linguistic
minorities and social inclusion has undertakenthese assessmentsto inform the design o f
Program. Duringimplementation, the Programwould also benefit from information provided by
such on-going national studies as: (i) and Social Exclusion Assessment, currently
                                        Gender


                                                 70

underway withjoint funding from DfID andthe Bank; and (ii)        Situation of Indigenous Peoples in
Nepal and National Frameworkfor the Development, supported by DanishDevelopment
Cooperation(DANIDA).

Safeguard related risks and measuresproposed Based on the SA team's review findings, the
program will not entail any involuntary resettlement or landacquisition. N o landpurchase or
donation will be involved, as no new HP/SHI? will be constructed. Land for the construction o f
such facilities inNepal is not purchased; rather wealthier members ofthe community voluntarily
donate it; alternatively, they are built on public landthat is not owned by any individual.
Therefore, this Program does not trigger the OP/BP 4.I 2 on Involuntary Resettlement.

However, OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples does apply. The SA has determined that the program
will not have anynegative impact on indigenous peoplewho are mainly the socially
disadvantaged communities such as Dalits and Janajatis. The VCDP lays out a number o f
concrete steps that should be taken to complywith OD 4.20 on Indigenous People and ensure
that the program not only causes no negative impacts on IP andother vulnerable groups, but that
itprovides the necessary institutional andbudgetary mechanisms to insure that they get equal
access to program benefits.

Consultations with key stakeholders andresults from other similar studies on Sector-Wide
programs, have recommendedthe following measures to promote improved access o f services to
indigenous communities: (i)    recruitment inhealth facilities (mainly inout reach ones), use and
retention o fhealthproviders who are local andwith knowledge o f local languages, where there
are largepopulations of indigenous people or linguistic minorities who do not speak Nepali as
their mother tongue, but also inhospitalswhere they may seek health services; (ii)    incentives for
recruitment o f local bilingual women service providers inHP/SHPs where necessary which is
already inpractice inNepal [Maternal andChildHealthWorker (MCHW), Village Health
Worker, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife, FCHV andmothers' groups], the later two by each nine
wards o fthe VDCs (iii)   disaggregation o fHealthManagement Information System (HMIS) data
bygender, caste, ethnicity and special needs to permit tracking o fprogress on inclusive health
program objectives; and (iv) partnerships with local community groups who are working inother
sectors such as farmers' group, forest users' group, water users' group, women support services
group andlocal level Janjati Uthangroups.

These groups are proposing to sign a Memorandum o fUnderstanding(MOU) through which the
M O Hwould fundthem to carry out social mapping to identify indigenous groups, women and
adolescent and youths from vulnerable communities, who are left out and unable to access health
services. The local groups would organize campaigns andprovide incentives to encourage
health care providers and community healthworkers to practice non-discriminating health
services practices. They would also undertake regular follow up to track behavior and
performance o fhealthprofessionals. The local community group would act as a catalyst to
change attitudes towards caste, gender and ethnic exclusion among the health service providers .
Local groups would also lobby for the membership to better reflect the gender, caste and ethnic
profile o fthe community as revealedinthe social mappingprocess. They would also carry out
social audits to track the fair allocation o f subsidies andfee waivers so that fundingbenefits the
most needy Dalits, Janajatis, and indigenous adolescent and youths especially inconflict areas.



                                                    71

Consultations with stakeholders: Duringthe SA, a series o fmeetings and interviews were
conductedwith a wide range o f sectors, academicians, NGOs, donor agencies andcivil societies
inthe field ofhealth, language development, gender, anthropology andsocial exclusionissues.
Duringthe preparationo ftheVCDP, members o fcommunity organizations representing socially
excluded groups, indigenouspeople and linguistic minorities were interviewed. Fieldvisits to
health facilities were conducted to assess different social inclusion issues related to access and
delivery o fhealth services to indigenous andDalit women, and adolescent populations

Stakeholder discussions havebeenundertaken at the central level. As part o f the VCDP
preparation consultations were being heldwith women, Janajatis andDalit activists, NGOs,
academic institutions working at national, district as well as community levels including
representatives from the National Commissions for Dalits andWomen andthe Nepal Federation
o fNationalities. Feedback from different groups was incorporated into the final VDCP.

Capacity and commitment of implementation agencies: The MOH ,as the lead implementation
agency, hasthe primaryresponsibility for delivery o fthe Programtogetherwithrelated agencies such
as MOLD. Ministryo fWomen, Children andSocial Welfare andJanjati federations and similarly at
the district level agencies.The Gender FocalPoint, o f MOHwill be assigned with the key
accountability for components relatedto social inclusion. Experiencehas indicatedthat for
effective implementation, more trained field-based health staff is needed, due to the difficulties
encountered inmainstreaming accountability for social inclusion. More thanrules, a shift in
attitudes andbehavior is needed to stimulate real social transformation inthe provision o f and
access to health services. The program envisages support to Local HealthManagement
Committees (LHMCs) o f various level o f health facilities from local community groups to create
increased ownership andbroad participation insocial monitoring o fhealth service delivery. It i s
proposed that modalities for monitoring andtracking cases o f discrimination be set up at
appropriate offices. Development o f orientation materials and such sessions for various level o f
healthofficials including decision makers, mangers and supervisors i s important andVCDP
includes them.      .

Drawing on the rich experience and demonstrated success o f the manyinternationalNGOs and
CBOs inNepal on social mobilization for improved social inclusion, the program will develop
partnerships with such groups to strengthen monitoring through community social mapping and
social audit o f healthfacilities and expenditures to ensure that services are benefiting the poor,
minorities, women and adolescent girls. At the national, district and community level, there are
thousands o f women's groups, mothers' groups engaged inwomen development through
advocacy and empowerment. These andother local groups will be tapped to buildthe capacity
o fthe LHMCs to implement program activities.

Arrangements for funding and schedulefor implementation: It is anticipated that all the
activities will be initiated within Year One. National policies, regulations, guidelines, training
materials andBCC instruments anddirectives, which may hinder implementation o f a more
inclusive healthprogram, will be reviewed, updated and implementedwithin the first Program
year.




                                                  72

Fundingat the Community Level: Communitymanagedhealthfacilities havebeensuffering
bothinterms o fqualified, non-discriminating healthservice providers as well as adequate
fimding. The LHMC willbe sensitized to such issues and atransparentmodalityincluding a
citizen's charter will be developed andpubliclynotified.

Fundingat the CentralLevel: Central finds willbe used(probably on an outsourcingbasis) for:
(i) developing multilingual work manuals andBCC materialprogram for health providers
working innon-Nepali speaking communities. It is recommended that development o fthe multi
lingual training program be initiated inYear 1through outsourcing o ftechnical inputs. Pre-
testing andpiloting in50 health facilities in5 districts with a highindigenous population will
follow inyear 2 and year 3 to inform Program expansion.

Community level data will support the HMIS under MOUwith local groups for collection o f
disaggregated data. Mechanisms such as social audits and social mappingwill track absenteeism
bygender, caste and ethnicity, monitor discriminatorybehavior/practices and access o ftargeted
beneficiaries to services, subsidies, incentives, follow up on the recruitment andretentiono f
women health service providers and feed such information. Mechanisms such as social audits
andsocialmappingwill track absenteeism by gender, caste andethnicity, monitor discriminatory
behavior/practices and access o f targeted beneficiaries to services, subsidies, follow up on the
recruitment and retentiono fwomen healthprofessionals and feed such information into the
HMIS.




                                                  73

                          Annex 11:ProgramPreparationand Supervision



Activities details                                     Planned             Actual
      Project ConceptNote review                    04/04/2003            04/04/2003
      InitialProjecthformation Document             05/19/2003            15/19//2003
      to PIC
      InitialISDS to PIC                            10/03/2003            10/03/2003
      Pre-appraisal                                 03/15/2004            03/15/2004
      Appraisal                                     05/11/2004           05/27/2004
      Negotiations                                  07/30/2004           07/30/2004
      BoardRegionalVice President                   09/09/2004
      approval
      Planned date o f effectiveness                10/30/2004
      Planned date o fmid-termreview                02/01/2008
      Plannedcompletion date                       07/15/ /2009
      Planned closing date                          01/15/2010

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe program: MinistryofHealth

         Bankstaff and consultantswho worked on the programincludedas follows:

                  Name                                      Title                 Unit
Jagmohan SinghKang                  Senior PHNSpecialist/Task Team Leader        SASHD
Tirtha Rana                         Senior HealthSpecialist/Co-Task Team         SASHD
                                    Leader
KiranRanjanBaral                    Senior Procurement Specialist                SARPS
NaimaA. Hasci                       Social Development Specialist                AFTH3
Eliezer Orbach                      Consultant, Institutional Development        SASHD
Laura M.Kiang                       Operations Officer                           SASHD
KirtanChandraSahoo                  Environment Specialist                       SASES
Julie Mclaughlin                     Senior Public Health Specialist             AFTHl
SundararajanSrinivasa Gopalan        Senior Public HealthSpecialist              SASHD
BigyanPradhan                       Senior Financial Management Specialist       SARFM
G.N.V.Ramana                        Senior Public HealthSpecialist               SASHD
ElfiedaVincent                      Program Assistant                            SASHD
SushilaRai                          Program Assistant                            SASHD

Bankfunds expendedto date (08/040/2004) on programpreparation:$474,900

EstimatedApprovaland Supervisioncosts:
1. Remaining costs to approval:             $ 65,000
2. Estimated annual supervision cost        $ 100,000




                                               74

                              Annex 12: Documents in the Project File



ProgramBackgrounddocuments:

   1. Aide-Memoire: NepalHealth Sector ProgramSupport Project, PreparationMission, December
        22,2003 -January 08,2004
   2. Final Report, Nepal Health Sector ProgramSupport Project, Quality enhancementReview, March
        17,2004
   3. Aide-Memoire: Nepal Health Sector ProgramSupport Project, Pre-AppraisalMission, March 15-
        April02, 2004

Country Documentsproduced bythe World Bank:

   1. Nepal: Country FinancialAccountability Assessment. A Joint Exercise o f His Majesty's
        Government o fNepal and the World Bank, July 5,2002.
   2. NepalCountry Procurement Assessment Report, Procurement Services, South Asia Region, The
        World Bank Group, April 11,2002.
   3. Nepal: Country Assistance Strategy ProgressReport, January 2003, The world Bank, report no.
        25205-NEP
   4. Nepal: Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007, report no. 26509-NEP

Sector related country documents producedcommissionedby the World Bank:

   1. Nepal OperationalIssues and Prioritization of Resources inthe Health Sector, ReportNo. 19613,
        June 8,2000 HNP, SouthAsia Region, World Bank
   2. Nepal Public ExpenditureReview Volume 1:PER Overview -The MainReport, ReportNo.
        20211-NEP, April 11,2000, Poverty ReductionandEconomic Management Unit, SouthAsia
        Region, World Bank
   3.   Economic assessment of the Health Sector, January, 2003)
   4. Social Assessment for Health Sector, February 2003
   5. ImprovingHealth Care Waste Management inNepal, March2003
   6. Procurement Capacity Assessment inHealth Sector, Nepal, May, 2003
   7. Nepal PrivateHealth Sector Exploratory Mission, The World Bank, May, 2003
   8. The Citizens' Voice inHealth Services inNepal, June 2003
   9. Nepal Health Sector InstitutionalAssessment, Note onParticipatory Process, August, 2003
   10. A report onDecentralizationinHealth Sector, August, 2003
   11. FinancialManagement Assessment inHealth Sector, August, 2003
   12. Delivering Health Services to Communities inNepal, September, 2003
   13. Hospital Sub-sector Review, inHealth Sector, Nepal, September, 2003
   14. Economic Analysis for the Health Sector Program, November, 2003
   15. Mapping o f Health Services by Districts, December, 2004
   16. Essential HealthCare Services, Cost Effectiveness and Cost Benefit Study, February, 2004
   17. Costing of NHSP-IP, Unit Cost of Essential Health Care Services Study, March, 2004
   18. Effectiveness and Expendituresof HealthPrograms implementedby LNGOs, (ongoing)
   19. Constraints o f Nepali Rural Women to Access and Utilization o fHealth Services, 2002

Government

   1. Health Sector Strategy -An Agenda for Change



                                                  75

   2. FinalDraftNepal Health Sector Program -Implementation Plan (NHSP-P)
   3. NationalHealthPolicy, 1991
   4. SecondLongTermHealthPlan 1997-2017, August 1999, MOH, Nepal
   5. Community basedmonitoringand supervision inhealthservices inNepal,
       PIU/PFHP/DOHS/MOH November, 2000
   6. MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework, FY 2002/3-2004/5,5.2 Health, July 2002
   7. Public ExpenditureReviewon Health, HEFU,M O H 2003
   8. The TenthFiveYear Plan 2002-2007, HMGN,National Planning Commission, 2001.

Documents onthe sector produced by other donor agencies:

   1. Macroeconomics and Health for Economic Development, Commission on Macro -Economics and
       Health, WHO, 20 December, 2001, WHO
   2. Health Sector Review inNepal, Reportto DflD, July 1999, KenGrant andMarkPearson,
       Institute for Health Sector Development. London, DfID.
   3, DevelopingHealth Sector DecentralizationinNepal: Collaborative PolicyDevelopment, Report
       of Phase One, DfID/DHSP/ His Majesty Government ofNepal - Dr.Padam Bahadur Chand, Dr.
       Charles Collins, NuffieldInstitute for Health, University of Leeds, UK.April 2002,DOHS/DfID
   4. InstitutionalAssessment o fNepalHealth Sector (December 2002), DflD
   5. Master Plan of Operations, 2002 -2006, Country Programof Operations: HMG/ The United
       Nations Children's Fund(UNICEF).
   6. Service Delivery Survey: Healthand Agriculture Services, NepalMultipleIndicators
       Surveillance, Sixth Cycles, HMG/NNPC Secretariat incollaboration withUNICEF Nepal, 1998.
   7. Prioritization of Essential HealthPackage: A Case Study from Nepal, USAID/ JICA
   8. Review, assessment and synthesis of current EHCS delivery experiences and development o f
       costed EHCS delivery modalities (February 2003). USAIDIJICA
   9. Designingdecentralized hospitalservices autonomy model with a phased plan (January 2003).
       USAID/JICA
   10. Study on Decentralized EHCS management (February 2003), USAID/ JICA
   11. Preparation of an inventory and standards ofphysical assets and facilities at all levels. (March
       2003), JSI/USAID/LMD/DOHS
   12. Assessment of LMDcurrent capacity and development of the logistic management strategy
       (February 2003), JSI/USAID/LMD/DOHS
   13. Analysis of HMIS strengths and weaknesses, identification ofperformance indicators, conducting
       a Service Delivery Survey for setting baseline and identification of interventions for HMIS
       strengthening (HMIS),DOHS/HSSP/GTZ
   14. Review o f HRDand identification o f activities and inputsnecessaryfor updating o f the HRD
      Master Plan, MOH/HSSP/GTZ
   15. Identification of inputsand activities for developing Q Mpolicy andprograms, DOHS/HSSP/GTZ




                                                    76

                                        Annex 13: Statement ofLoans and CreditdGrants



                                                                                                                        Difference between
                                                                                                                        expected and actual
                                                                OriginalAmount inUS$ Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO82646      2003  CommunitySchool SupportProject              0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     4.97       0.00        0.00
PO71291      2003  NP FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance      0.00      16.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     14.87      -2.44       0.00
PO43311      2003  POWERDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    0.00     50.40     0.00      0.00     0.00     76.53       1.50       0.00
PO50671      2002  NP: Telecommunications Sector Reform        0.00     22.56     0.00      0.00     0.00     23.24     11.04        0.00
PO45052      2000  ROAD MAINTENANCE AND                        0.00     54.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     33.08     49.74        8.59
                   DEVELOPMENT
PO40612      1999  BASIC & PRIMARY ED. I1                      0.00      12.50    0.00      0.00     0.00     2.89        3.29       3.35
PO10530      1998  IRRIGSECTORDEVT                             0.00     79.77     0.00      0.00     8.01      5.37      14.88        1.40
PO10516      1997  RURAL WS& SANITATION                        0.00      18.30    0.00      0.00     1.55      0.55       3.37        1.74

                                                     Total:    0.00    259.03     0.00      0.00     9.56    161.50      81.38       15.08




                                                       STATEMENT OF FC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                Committed                                 Disbursed

                                                               IFC                                       IFC

        FY Approval     Company                    Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic

        0196198         Bhote Koshi                0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
        1994            HimalPower                 24.27        0.00        3.60     0.00      24.27      0.00       3.60       0.00
        2001            ILFC-Nepal                 0.00         0.30        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.30       0.00        0.00
         1998           JomsomResort               4.00         0.00        0.00     0.00       4.00      0.00       0.00        0.00
                                   Totalportfolio:  28.27       0.30        3.60     0.00      28.27      0.30       3.60        0.00




                       ~


                                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
                         FY Approval   Company                           Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                             Totalpendingcommitment:      0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                     77

                                                   Annex 14: Country at a Glance



POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South   LOW-
                                                        Nepal   Asia income     Ievelopment diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                            24.1   $401   2,495              Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                         230    460     430
GNI(Atlas mefhod, US$billions)                                                                    T
                                                          5.5    640    1072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                            2.4     16       1.9
Laborforce (%)                                            2.6     2.3     2.3   ZNI                              Gross
                                                                                                          4 primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                        :apita                       enrollment
Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationalPO verfyline)           42
Urbanpopulation (%of fOtalpOpUlafiOn)                      '0     28       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                              60     63       59                     .L
Infant mortality(per 7,OOOlive birfhs)                     69      71      61
Childmalnutrition (%ofchildfen under5)                     4a                        Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)          aa     64       76
Illiteracy(%ofpopulation age 159                           56     44       37
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-age population)         iB     97       95            Y  Nepal
   Male                                                   I26     oa      133                Low-income group
   Female                                                 aa      a9       07

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1982     1992   2001   2002
                                                                                Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 2.4     3.4    5.6     55
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                                              &,:?+
                                                   n.1    19.5   23.9    24.3
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                                                                Trade
                                                   11.6   d.O    22.4     d.i
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                                                         T
                                                   9.9     9.6   %.a      11.6
Gross national savings/GDP                         a.1    119    27.2    25.5

Currentaccount balancelGDP                        -3.4    -6.6    2.8     5.2
Interestpayments/GDP                               0.1     0.8    0.4     0A    savings
                                                                                Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    14.7    53.1   49.9    52.9
Total debt Servicelexports                         5.5    13.6    4.0     4.6
Presentvalueof debtlGDP                                          28.1
Present value of debtlexports                                    74.0                        Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02    2001   2002 2002-06
(averageannualgroMh)
GDP                                        4.9     4.6     4.6   -0.5     3.4                Nepal

GDP DercaDita                              2.6     2.1     2.3   -2.7      13                 Lowincome orow


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 1982    1992   2001    2002
(%ofGDP)
Agriculture                                       61.0    44.0   38.4     39.6
Industry                                          a.9     20.0   213      20.9
  Manufacturing                                    4.3     8.7    9.0      6.1
Services                                          26.1    36.0   40.3     39.5

Private consumption                               81.6    02.4   75.4     70.4
Generalgovernment consumption                      8.5     7.8    9.8     13.o
Imports of goods andservices                      18.8    25.7   315      28.8

                                              1982-92 1992-02   2001    2002
(averageannuaigrovdh)
Agriculture                                        3.6     3.2    5.5      2.2
Industry                                           9.1     5.5    2.7     -3.3
  Manufacturing                                    9.8     5.3    3.8    -13.0
Services                                           4.1     6.3    5.3     -14

Private consumption
Generalgovernment consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services




                                                                    78

                                                                                                                     Neual
~~




  PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982   1992    2001    2002       Inflation (X)
  Domestic prices                                                                                                           I
  (%change)
  Consumer prices                           a.6    20.7      2.4     3.0
  ImplicitGDP deflator                       9.3   8.2       3.2     3.2

  Government finance
  (%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                          I O  J                                          I I
  Currentrevenue                                    8.6      x3.1   P.9              97     98    99       00     01
  Currentbudget balance                            -0.9       19      1.3
  Overall surplus/deficit                          -8.5     -4.5    -4.3             Y *-- GDPdeflator    -CPI


  TRADE
                                           1982   1992     2001   2002
  (US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

  Total exports (fob)                        16    306      942     762                                                     I
   Food                                                       65
   Pulses                                                     56
   Manufactures                                             256
  Total imports (cif)                       364     lt?    1,773   1,605
   Food                                              95        61
   Fuelandenergy                                     65     338
   Capitalgoods                                     x38      3 P

  Exportpriceindex(895=WO)                                                          96    97   98     99    00

  Import priceindex(895=WO)                                                               BExports         mlIF(Ports
  Terms of trade (895=WO)

  BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                           1982   1992     2001   2002
  (US$ millions)                                                               Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

  Exportsof goods and services              278    543      1,359  1,060
  Imports of goods and services              4'12  615      1,964  1,667
  Resource balance                          -a4    -333     -625    -626

  Net income                                   t?     13       9       -1
  Net currenttransfers                        40     96      774     921

  Currentaccount balance                     -62   -223       159    267

  Financingitems (net)                       0 5    30        -76   -323
  Changesin net reserves                     -53    -86       -80     36

  Memo:
  Reserves includinggoid (US$ millions)             4 6     1,026   1,055
  Conversion rate (DEC,locaVUS$j             P.9   44.9     13.5    15.9


  EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982   1992     2001    2002
  (US$ millions)                                                             ~ Composition o f 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
  Total debtoutstanding anddisbursed        353    1,607   2,766   2,933     I
    IBRD                                       0       0        0       0                   -F 15    36
    IDA                                      142    765     1a2     1156

  Total debtservice                            B     67        84     66
    IBRD                                       0       0        0       0
    IDA                                         I      9       25     26

  Composition of net resourceflows
    Official grants                           69     40        16     74
    Official creditors                        66     a 3       60       4
    Private creditors                           1     -11       0       0
    Foreigndirect investment                   0       4        6      -4
    Portfolio equity                           0       0        0       0

  World Bank program
    Commitments                               29     I79        0      23     1A IBRD
                                                                                 -                             E- Bilateral
    Disbursements                             34     10        47      36      B -IDA     D-Othernultilateral  F-Private
    Principalrepayments                        0       3       n        8     IC-IMF                           G-Short-term




                                                                79

                    Annex 15 Letter of Sector Development Policy




                                                                            Tel*          4259503
                                                                                      Res. SS??Us
                                                                                      Fax. 4255S!1




-                            Letter of !Sector DeveloDment Policy


 Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
 President
 The World Bank
 WashingtonD.C.



 Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:
                   -.$



 1.     Povertyreductionis the highest developmentpriority of HisMajesty's Governmentof
 Nepal(HMG/N). The TenthFiveYear Plan(2002103-06/07)is aimedat reducingpoverty
 andbringingbackwardregions and marginalizedpopulationsintothe mainstreamof
 development. Social Services is one ofthe four strategic pillarsofHMG/"s Poverty
 ReductionStrategy Paper(PRSP)     - 2002.  Inthe healthsector, HMG/"s goalis to improve
 the healthof the Nepalese as a means to develop healthyandcapable humanpower to support
 povertyreduction.
 2.     Nepalmadenotableachievements inhealthduringthe 1990swhen infantmortality
 rate declinedby 43 percent and total femlity rate by 27 percent. Similar other gains were
 recorded, especiallyincommunicabledisease control. However, the overallhealthstatus of
 the populationremains lower than that ofour SouthAsianneighbors. The sector faces the
 importantchallenges ofaddressinghighmaternalmortalityandmorbidity,widespread
 malnutritionand the emerging threatof HIV/AIDS. The maincauses ofdeath remain
 poverty-relatedinfectiousdiseases, whichare exacerbatedbymalnutrition. Further,national
 healthindicatorsconceal substantialdisparitiesacrossthe country's geographicalregionsand
 social classes. Key sector issuesinclude: (i) inadequateaccess to essentialhealthcare
 services (EHCS) by the poor, (ii)inadequatefinancing andlow efficiencyofpublicspending;
 (iii)lowqualityofhealthcarefromout-of-pocketexpenditure;(iv)weakinstitutional
 capacity; (v) centralizedplanningandmanagement;(vi) inadequatecollaborationwithNGOs
 andthe privatesector, and(vii)fmgmentedapproachofexternalassistance. As aresult
 inadequateaccess to and low use of healthservices bythe pooris a serious concern to
 HMGM.


                                         80

 3.       Through this letter, Iam sharing with you HMGM's plans for the health sector, its
 commitment to health sector reform, andsome o f the key reformandmajor activities that we
 have decided to implement for addressingthe above sector issuesthrougha five-year Health
 Sector Program(HSP) beginning Fiscal Year Fr)2004/05. Iam also Writing, onbehalfof
  HMGM, to requestan IDAGrant o fUS$40millionandacredit o fUS$ 10million fiom the
 International Development Association (IDA) insupport o fthe Health Sector Program.


  Health Sector Strategy: An Agenda for Change (Reform)

 4.       HMGMhasbeenworking With itsdevelopment partners, over the last few years to
 develop healthsector reform policiesandstrategiesaimed at increasingthe coverage, quality
- andthe useofthe EHCS, especially bythepoorandunderservedpopulations. Together we
 prepared a Health Sector Strategy (HSS): An Agenda for Change (Reform) in2003, which
 has been approvedby the Council of Ministers. The HSS focuses on four key areas: (i)
 delivery o f EHCS; (ii)  decentralizationo fmanagementauthority andresponsibility for
  service delivery; (iii)
                        promotion ofpublic private partnerships; and (iv) strengthening o f
 sector management. Italso seeks better value for money fiom the private sector services.
 The HSS has a fifteen-year vision and will guide reforms inthe health sector as fiamedinthe
  Second LongTermHealthPlan, 1997 2017andthe National HealthPolicy, 1991, o fthe
                                          -
  HMG/N.


  NepalHealth Sector Program-ImplementationPlan
                      3
  5.      Basedon tie HSS, the Government with wide participation o fall the development
  partners preparedthe Nepal HealthSector Program-Implementation Plan (P)2004-2009.
  The IP articulates our vision for the sector, the intended reforms, and operational guidelines
  for most ofthe sector program for the next five years. It provides directions on major
  institutionalcapacity buildingand the plannedoutputs. The IPemphasizesprioritized
  allocation o f resources, greaterefficiency o fpublic health services and effective monitoring
  and evaluation o fthe sector performance.


  HealthSector Program

  6.      The five-year (FY 2004-09) HSP, basedon the HSS andthe IP, aims at developing an
  equitable, quality healthcare system for Nepal. Towards that end, and inline with the PRSP
  and the Tenth Plan, HSP has the following two goals:
      (i)     Increaseduseo fquality health care services with specific emphasis on essential
              health care servicesby the population, especiallyby the poor and the underserved;
              and
      (ii)    Anefficient healthmanagementsystemdevelopedwith provisionofadequate
              financial resources

  To achieve the abovegoals, HMG/Nhasdecidedto implement the followingreforms (seven)
  through the Health SectorProgram:

      9
      .   Implementation ofthe HSS
          Harmonization ofdonor assistanceto the Health Sector basedon the Aid Integration
          Processadoptedat the Nepal Development Forum2004



                                            81

     .
     9  Equitybasedresourceallocation (human and financial) to district levelandbelow to
        ensure improved accessto the poor
     .. Devolutiono f the healthsystem withdecentralization to local bodies and de-
        concentration o f Ministry of Health          management
        A mixedeconomy for health services; MOHadopting anenablingrole for policy,
        financing, regulation andquality assurancerole particularly at secondaryand tertiary
        levels
        MOHstructures, planning, budgeting, andperformancemanagementre-structuredto
        reflect andeffectively implement the HSS
     9  Proportionate shift inexpenditures from secondaryand tertiary to EHCS and
        proportion o f total HMG/Nbudget allocated to health increasedover the lifetime o f
        the Health Sector Strategy.
-The matrix inAnnex Io fthis letter sets out the abovepolicy reforms andthe proposed
 milestonesby which we will track their progress.


 Sector-Wide Management Approach

 7.     HMGMhasdecidedto adopt a sector-wide approachfor the overallmanagementof
 the health sector. It implies reform inthe systems, structures and policies withinthe MOH,
 and inprogram financing as well as the changes inthe relationships with other stakeholders
 within the sector. We see the approach itselfan important institutional reform to improve the
 coverage, quality and cost effectiveness o f servicedelivery. Key features ofthis approach in
 our context are: (i)clear sectorpolicy framework as articulated inthe HSS; (ii) links
                     a                                                             clear
 between sectorpol$ies andexpenditure plans, with annualoperational plans for eachmajor
 component o fthe sector program; (iii)  poolingo fresourcesfrom different sourcesto
 implement the sector program, and ensuring that expenditure usingnon-pooled resourcesare
 consistent with sector policies and reflected inannualoperational and financial plans; (iv)
 integratedmanagementof activities; (v) reporting of activities, expenditures andresults using
 common performance monitoringindicators; and (vi) joint (govemmentldonor) annual
 performance reviews.

 8.     It isexpectedthat as experience is gained with sector-wide management, an
 increasingproportion of the extemal financing will be channelled through pooled fundingand
 common reportingprocedures.


 ProgramActivities

 9.      HSP's major thrusts will be inthe areas o f EHCS, decentralization, public private
 partnerships,and sector management; these are touchedupon below:
 Essential HealthCare Services
 10.    The HSP will expandandor strengthen cost-effective essential health care services to
 focus on the MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs), specifically on safer motherhood and
 family planning, childhealth, communicable disease control andstrengthenedoutpatient
 services. This will beachieved by: (i)  developing and implementing technical standardsto
 improveservice quality; (ii)  providing in-service training to upgradethe technical skills o f
 field workers; (iii)
                    ensuringdrugavailability inhealth facilities by improveddrug
 procurement and distribution; (iv) usingbehavior changecoqmunication to inform the public
 about services, to promote healthy behaviors and to promote a client focused, gender-



                                         82

 sensitiveattitudeamongproviders; (v) improvingoutreachactivities especiallyinthe remote
 Midand Far-WestemRegions; and(vii)conductingService DeliverySurveysto obtainclient
 andprovider feedback onthe qualityandadequacyofhealthservices. The health
 interventionsare notgivenpriority for additionalpublic fiindinginthe shortterm. We expect
 that many ofthese services will grow throughprivateinvestment.

 Decentralization

 11.     The HSPwill adopt a phased-inapproachto decentralizationfirst by deepeningthe
 presentsystemofdeconcentrationthroughtransferringmoreresources, responsibilitiesand
 authorityto the District HealthOfices (DHO), andthengraduallyincreasingthe roleof the
 DDCsto take onnew responsibilities.This will includeincreasingthe authorityofthe DHO
-.toformulatedistricthealthplans, transfer staff withinthe districtandmakenecessary
 purchases.The DDCrolewillbeenhancedinhealthplanning, resourcegeneration,
 monitoringandsomeproviderroles. These will besteps inthe processof capacitybuilding,
 whereby the DDCwill beginexercisingresponsibilitiestowards full devolution. Over the
 nextfive years, responsibilityfor andauthorityover all the PrimaryHealthCare Centers,
 HealthPostsandSub-HealthPostsofat least 30 districtswill behandedoverto the local
 bodies.

 Public Private Partnerships

 12.     HMGM will initiate the plannedpromotionof public-private partnerships(PPP) by
 appointinga focal point in the MOH. HSP will build capacity in MOH to ensure adequate
 regulation,monitoring andimplementationof professionals, facilities and services. MOH
 will conduct an &sessment of the NGO and private sector and, in consultation with
 stakeholders, develop a PPP Strategy that will address MOH, NGO, and private provider
 roles, and determine services eligible for publicly financed NGO/private sector provision.
 The MOH will also develop partnership mechanisms at central and district level with
 provision for integrated planning of EHCS. Further, MOH will provide management
 autonomy to large district/zonal hospitals and contract NGOs/private sector to manage at
 least five districthospitals.

 13.     The roleofthe publichealth sector will graduallychange, fromone primarilyofa
 service providerto that predominantlyofa policymaker, financer andregulator.

   Strengthening;Sector Management

 14.     HMGMhas decidedto undertake, as partof the HSP, a major initiative to develop
 institutionalandmanagementcapacityinthe MOH, Departmentof HealthServices andtheir
 keyagencies. This will strengthenMOH's capacity to undertakea Sector-wideapproach,
 and to managemoreeffectivelyby focusingon(a) the divisionoflaboramongkeyagencies

 leadershipandmonitoring; and(c) resourcemanagement-financial, humanandphysical. In
 inthe sector; (b)the keytasks ofmanagement-planning, programming,budgeting,

 the contextofdecentralization,the MOHwill devolveauthorityto purchasedrugs and
 medicalsupplies to the districts. The programwill supportthis devolutionby strengthening
 the capacityof the LocalBodies, andofthe Logistics ManagementDivisioninthe MOH.
 The Logistics ManagementInformationSystemwill support decisionmakingbothat national
 andlocal levels. The MOHwill review staffingnormsandpractices, as well as skills gaps,
 andwill develop andimplementre-deploymentandtrainingprograms, focusingparticularly



                                        83

 ondecentralizedapproach. Staffopinionsurveys will beconductedto assessmoraleand
 motivationand to helpdiagnose administrative, technicalandmanagerialwork practicesthat
 impede staffutilizationandefficiency. MOHhaspreparedanActionPlanfor capacity
 development(analysis andimplementation)whichis inAnnex IIofthis letter.


 IncreasedHMG/NResourcesfor the HealthSector

 15.    HMGMbudget allocationsto MOHhave remainedstagnant over the last five years;
 these are expected to increase from about 5 percent in 20003/04 to 5.5 percent of the total
 budget by 2004/05. HMGM intendsto hrther increase this to 7 percent over the next five
-years. Allocationsto primaryhealth care have been fluctuatinginthe past; we have decided
 to allocateat least 65 percent of the MOHbudget to EHCS every year. To improvethe
 quality of services, we will gradually increase the allocation to the non-salary recurrent
 budget, for items suchas drugs andmaintenance, to 35 percentover the nextfive years.


 Sector-wide ProgramReview and Aid Co-ordination

 16.    We are institutionalizingreviewmechanismsto ensure effectiveprogram
 management, includingperformancemonitoringand financialoversight. Centralto this
 processis the Joint AnnualReview, supplementedbyon-goingfinancial andoperational
    .
 programmonitoringandaidco-ordination. Key features ofthe arrangementsare:

        Ameed M % a l OwrationalandFinancialPlans: Foreachofthe implementing
        DivisionsandCentresofthe sector-wideprogram, annualoperationalandfinancial
        planswill beagreedwiththe extemaldevelopment partners(EDPs). The annualplans
        will beagreedduringthe Joint AnnualReviews.
        AgreedMilestonesand PerformanceIndicators: The programmilestonesand
        indicatorshavebeendevelopedandagreed. Progress onthese will beassessedduring
        the JointAnnualReviews.
        FinancingMechanisms: There will bea gradualshift indisbursementbasedon
        individualprojectsto one basedonsector performance. As sector-widefinancingis
        introduced,DFIDandIDA will disburse against a percentageof sector expenditures.
        The levelof financingwill dependonprogramperformanceand the adequacyof the
        proposedannual financial andoperationalplansto address identifiedissuesof
        implementation,effectivenessanddevelopmentimpact.
        On-goingMonitoring: There will be interimreports, basedonagreedfinancialand
        programindicators,to ensure on-goingmonitoringandeffectivepreparationof
        informationandreports requiredfor the Joint Annual Reviews. Eachannualreview
     .  will focus onone or two keyprogramarea(s) for in-depthstudy tobeagreedduring
        the previousreview.
        Aid Manapement:MOHwill manageaidand developmentpartnerco-ordination. The
        harmonizationamongthe health developmentpartnersandaidintegrationwill be
        graduallyimplementedguidedbythe ForeignAid PolicyofHMGM.A Statementof
        Intentto establisha formal workingpartnershipbetweenthe MOHandthe EDPshas
        beenagreed. Itprovidesa common frameworkfor joint planning,programmingand
        performancereview, includingprinciples, processesandimplementationprocedures
        for the partnership.



                                             84

 Sustainability

 17.     Programsustainabilityisextremely importantto HMGM. The above measures
 inherent inthe HSP's sector-wideapproach, itsparticipatorydevelopmentand its major
 thrusts make for greater likelihoodofsustainability. The focus of HSPwill be on
 strengtheningexistingstructures,processesand managementsector-wide at all levels. Social
 servicesare a key P E Ppriority,and EHCShavebeendesignatedas "highestpriority"
 withinthe MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework.The healthsector's dependenceon
 external financingwill be graduallyreducedby (i)increasingthe government's contribution;
 (ii)improvingresourcemobilizationthroughcostsharing,communityinsurance,revolving          .
 drug funds; and (iii)improvingthe allocative efficiencyofsector expendituresthrough
-implementationof HSP. Finally, HSPwill supportto buildcommunityownershipand to
 ensure accountabilityofhealthstaff to the clients. We expectthat all these importantinputs
 willresultinthe sustainabilityofthe healthsectorprogram.

 18.     The HSPhasbeenplannedon the basisof the policiesand actionsas describedinthis
 Letter. Its resourcerequirementsover five years havebeenprojectedat aboutUS$500
 million. It is plannedthat US$213 million($50 millionfrom IDAthat includesUS $40
 millionIDA Grant, $38 millionfromDFIDas one ofthe pooled find partner of HSPand
 $125 millionfrom other EDPsfromtheir existingprojects) will be providedby the EDPsand
 the restby HMG/N. Therefore, we would liketo requestIDA'Ssupportthroughthe proposed
 grant and credit ofUS$50 millionequivalent for the HealthSector PrograminNepal.

 Thank you, with regards.



                                                      Yours sincerely.




                                           Deputy PrimeMinisterand FinanceMinister
                                               HisMajesty's GovernmentofNepal




                                            85

                                                                                                   Annex I

                                          Health Sector Program
                                  Policv Re
  Health Sector         Policy Reform                   Year 1                   Year 3                Year 5
 StrategymHSP                                       Start of NHSP        I     MidTerm              Endof NHSP
     output                                           (2004-05)                 (2006-07)               (2009)
"A healthsystem MOHleadthe                                                                       W S P Successfully
                                                                     _,
inwhichthere is     implementation o fthe     Pla&g     and Co-           Term Review o f        :ompleted and
equitable access    NepalHealth Sector        ordination with EDPs,       NHSP andAnnual         bllow onphase o f
to coordinated      Strategy 2002             Private Sector, NGOs and    Review o f Health      xogram support
quality health                                civil society established.  Sector Strategy        :or the Health
care services in                              HSRUand HEFU                igreement over         Sector Strategy in
rural andurban                                appropriately staffed(skill :xpansion o fNHSP      dace
areas,                                        mix andnumbers) to co-      nareaswhere
characterized by:                             ordinate and support        uccess has been
self-reliance, full                           sector reform and           ichieved and process
community                                     financing.                  :or preparingnext
participation,                                                            ihase o fprogram
decentralization,                                                         ;upport agreed
gender
sensitivity,
effective and
efficient
management,
andprivate and
NGOsector
participation in
the provisionand
financing o f
health services
resultingin
improved health
status o f the
population" 2nd
LongTerm
HealthPlan
Harmonization       MOHestablish a new        Health Sector               Full harmonization at  Expansion o f
o f donor           partnership relationship  Development Partner         the programlevel       harmonizationat
assistance to the   withHealthSector          Fonunoperational;           withjoint planning,    the f i n c i a l
Health Sector       EDPs based onthe Aid      system o fjoint annual      review and reporting   modality level with
                    IntegrationProcess        reviews inplace; and an     leadbyMOH and a        increased
                    adopted at the Nepal      action plan to implement    single annual work     programmatic
                    Development Forum         the Statement o f Intent    planandbudget for      financial support
                    2004                      2004 together with a Code   the sector
                                              o fPractice for EDP
                                              operational procedures
 EHCS               Equitybasedresource       Planfor phased              50% o f facilities at  75% o f facilities at
 implemented        allocation (humanand      implementation with         District level and     District level and
 with a poverty     financial) to District    staffing norms, equity      below have             below have
 focus              level and below to        based resource allocation,  appropriate staffing    appropriate staffing
                    support EHCS              and capacity building       mix andare able to     mix and are able to
                    implementationto          agreed                      provide Prioritized     provide Prioritized
                    ensure improvedaccess     Poverty relatedhealth       elements o fEHCS        elements o f EHCS
                    to the poor               indicators agreed



                                                     86

    Health Sector           Policy Reform                     Year 1                      Year 3                   Year 5
   StrategymHSP                                          Start of NHSP                  MidTerm              Endof NHSP
       output                                               (2004-05)                    (2006-07)                 (2009)
  Local Bodies         Devolutionofthe entire       MOH strategyfor de-         411key management          danagementfi~lly
  managingwith         healthsystemthrough          concentrationofplanning,    imctions delegatedto       le-concentratedto
  support              decentralizationto local     budgeting, service          iegional level; District   listrict level
                       bodiesandde-                 delivery, quality assurance eve1models inplace         Iperationalinat least
                       concentrationof MOH          andmonitoringapproved.      lecentralization           10 Districts
                       management                   Planfor decentralization    mplementedin               lecentralization
                                                    o f healthservicesagreed    iartnershipwith MOLD       irocessreviewedand
                                                    betweenMOH and              mdrespectiveDDCs and       :valuationof support
                                                    MOLD.                       VDCs (subject to elected   ieeds to ensure
                                                                                2odiesbeinginplace)        :quity andpro-poor
                                                                                                           bcus
  Roleof private       A mixed economyof            Mechanismsfor dialogue      Zontractingout oftertiary  411tertiary level
  sector andNGOs       healthprovision; MOH         with all stakeholders       levelfacilities            'acilitiescontracted
  developedgiving      adoptinganewpublic           established(private sector, 4t least 5 District        ,ut
  consumers access     sectorrole with an           NGOs, civil society, and    Hospitals operating        4t least 10District
  to cost effective    enablingandquality           local electedbodies)        mtonomously                Xospitalsoperating
  high quality         assurancerole particularly   EDP andother support for    Partnershipmodels          iutonomously;at
  services which       at secondaryandtertiary      NGOsandcivil society        astablishedwith NGOs,      least 5 district
  offer value for      levels.                      includedinsector            privatesector and          iospitals under
  money                                             planning                    communitybased             management contract
                                                                                initiatives                withNGOs/ private
                                                                                                           sector.
                                                                                                           Partnershipworking
                                                                                                           establishedat all
                                                                                                           levels
  Improvedsector       MOHstructures, planning,     Approval ofplanfor          District based planning,   Districtbased
  management           budgeting, and               restructuringof MOHat       budgetingand               planning, budgeting,
  (planning,           performancemanagement        all levels, clarifying the  performancemanagement      performance
  programming,         re-structured to reflect and rolesMinistry and           systemdeveloped            management, quality
  budgeting,           effectively implementthe     Department,Regionand        Regionsand Centre          assuranceand
  financingand         Sector Strategy              District; removingvertical  restructured including new monitoring
  performance                                       managementand               HumanResource,             establishedinat least
  management)                                       emphasizingsupport and      Information and            50 Districts.
                                                    servicingrole to            Communications; and        Regional
                                                    decentralized service       Partnershipsfunctions.     Directorates,
                                                    delivery andde-             HumanResource              Departmentof Health
                                                    concentratedmanagement      DevelopmentPolicy          andMinistryhave
                                                    ofthe Sector Strategy       finalized andresource      appropriate staffing
                                                    outputs                     implications incorporated  and skill mix for theii
                                                                                into the MOHbudget.        respectiverolesto
                                                                                                           further implementthf
                                                                                                           HealthSector
                                                                                                           Strategy
  Sustainable          Proportionateshift in        Phasedreductionin           Proportionof expenditure   Expenditureon
  financingand         expenditures from            tertiary level expenditure  onP1:P2:P3 categories      P1:P2:P3 categories
  resourceallocation   secondaryandtertiaryto       agreed                      reaches 67%:25%:8% as      movestowards
                       EHCSandproportionof          Plans for increasing        requiredbythe MTEF         70%:20%:10%
                       total HMGNbudget             autonomy of District level  with agreedtargets for the Spendon EHCS70%
                       allocatedto health           hospitalsagreed             regular budget also met7   Proportionof HMGN
                       increasedoverthe lifetime    Proposalsfor PPP            Spendon EHCSat least       budget allocatedto
                       ofthe Health Sector          managementof tertiary       67% ofthe MOH              MOH reaches 7%
                       Strategy                     hospitalsagreed             expenditure                OfMOHrecurrent
                                                                                Proportionoftotal HMGN     budget, 35%
                                                                                budgetallocatedto health   allocatedto non
                                                                                increasedto 6.5%           salarycosts

'P1:P2:P3 targets for regular budget are to be set byend ofJune 2004


                                                            87

                                                                                         Annex I1

                                HEALTHSECTORPROGRAM
                  ActionPlanfor CapacityBuildinginthe MinistryofHealth

A. Introduction

    1. The policy objectives of His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) in the area of
       health are expressed inthe lothFiveYear HealthPlanwhich covers the years 2002-2007.
       Theobjectives are:

0   To make essential health care services (EHCS) available to all people giving special
    emphasis to rural, remote, poor, and disadvantaged people through the development o f an
    effective and efficient healthmanagementsystem;
0   To establish a decentralisedhealth systemwith a participatory approach at every level;
0   To establish apublic-private -NGO partnershipinthe delivery o fhealth care services; and
0   To improve the quality of health care provided by public, private and NGO organizations
    through total quality managemento fhuman, financial andphysicalresources.

    To realize these objectives the Ministryo fHealth(MOH) developed a Health Sector Strategy
    -AnAgendaforChangeforthehealthsectorandpreparedacomprehensiveprogramNepal
    Health Sector Program -Implementation Plan (NHSP-IP) in support o f the lothFive Year
    Plan. The MOH mobilized financial and technical support from External Development
    Partners(EDPs) for the implementation o f this Program. This support will be providedunder
    a Health Sector Program Project (HSPP), which is inthe process o f gettingapproval by these
    partners.

    2. One o fthe keycomponents o fthe Ministry's strategy is to strengthen its own capacity, as
       well as the capacity of other actors in the health sector to deliver EHCS. This capacity
       needs to be improved and to achieve this improvement the Ministry has designed a
        comprehensive capacity building (CB) sub-program within the overall NHSP-IP. The
        following action plan describes (a) the specific goals and objectives o f the CB sub-
       program, (b) the conceptual framework and the strategic approach on which it i s based,
        (c) the lines o f action and the specific activities included in each, (d) the timetable for
        implementation and, finally, (e) the indicators that will be used in monitoring and
        evaluating its implementation.

B. Goalsand Objectives

    3. Thebroad goal of the Ministy is to increase both theproduction and theproductivity of
        sewice delivery. From a productionpoint o f view, there i s a need to produce and deliver
        more health services o f acceptable quality to more people. From a productivity point o f
        view, there is a need to do so at a lower unit cost, so that better quality services can be
        delivered with available resources. The HMGN is increasing the flow of funds to the
        health sector and EDPs too are providing much-needed funding. However, these funds
        can go a longer way, and help produce and deliver more services, if the unit costs o f



                                                 88

     service delivery go down, while the quality o f these services is maintained, or even
     improved. This canbeachievedthrough improvedproductivity.

  4. To be more productive, the M O H would like to build up its capacity, and the spec@
     objective of this action plan is to do so: to improve the availabilitv, deplovment, use and
     management of key resources at the Ministry's command. The main focus i s on human
     resources, physical resources, drugs and other medical supplies, and information. The
    planincludes a large numberof activities, sub-dividedinto resource-focused action lines
     andall aimed at achieving the types ofimprovement listedabove.

C.ConceptualFrameworkandStrategicApproach

  5. The framework i s based on two sets o f concepts - one related to capacity and the other
     related to productivity. `Capacity' i s the quantity o f goods and/or services that can be
     produced to specifications with a given quantity o f resources. The Ministry defines its
     capacity as the quantity o f health care services that it can produce to pre-determined
     specifications and deliver to the public with givenquantities o f resources. Productivity i s
     a ratio o f output to input. It improves when more output can be produced for the same
     input, or when more output can be produced for more input, but at a much higher rate.
     The Ministry defines its productivity as the ratio between the quantity of health care
     services it is delivering and the resources at its command. Its objective is to increase this
     ratio.

  6. Many factors affect the capacity o f the MOH in Nepal to produce and deliver health
     services. Chief among them are the following factor:

             The division o f labor between it and all others agencies in the health sector; the
             clarity and adequacyo f this division o f labor; the extent to which it bringsinto the
             action all agencies that can contribute to the delivery of services, such as regional,
             district and local bodies, the private sector, and the civic sector including NGOs
             andprofessional associations
             The organization structure within the Ministryitself; the division of labor among
             all departments, units, and even job categories, and the extent to which it
             influences its ownperformance
             The availability andmanagement of financial resources
             The availability and management o f humanresources; the number o f staff inthe
             Ministry; the deployment of staff and the staffing levels in individual facilities
             andoffices; the skills, andthe incentives to work fully andefficiently
             The availability andmanagement o fmaterial resources: medical andnon-medical
             equipment, drugs and supplies; the extent to which the Ministry can optimize the
             mix o fthese resources, andutilize eacho fthem fully and efficiently
             The availability andmanagement o f informationandthe extent to which relevant,
             reliable information i s used by managers both in daily operations and in the
             formulation o fpolicies and strategies, and finally,
             Work design and work practices inall o f the Ministry's health and administrative
             facilities at all levels


                                               89

  7. The Ministry believes that the capacity o f the health sector in Nepal can increase
      substantially if attention i s paid to all o f the seven factors listed above, but it attaches
      particular importance to the last one because o f the direct impact it has on productivity.
      Work design and work practices actually determine the level o f productivity in any
      organization because they influence the mix of resources used, the utilization of these
      resources and the efficiency o f these resources when utilized. Inthe end, the Ministry's
      ability to improve its capacity    -  that is, to deliver more health services at the quality
      desired to more people -depends on whether it will be able to do the following:

          0   To have all the types o f resources necessary, at the time required, at the
              specifications required andinthe required auantities;
          0   To utilize theseresourcesfullv; and
          0   To extract out o f these resources maximum performance when they are utilized,
              that is, to utilize them efficiently.

  I n designing this capacity building action plan, the MOH therefore focused on all of the
  factors that impact on its capacity that are listed above. I t paid particular attention to the
  factors that can help ensure that the required mix of resources is available to all of its
  healthfacilities and administrativefacilities; it introduced significant activities that aim to
  improve its ability to utilizepeople, materials and equipmentfully, and to get out of them
  the bestperformance.

D.Lines ofAction andDesign Characteristicsofthe Action Plan

  8. The Ministry's action planhas four lines of action. The first line of action focuses on the
      division of labor and the structure o f work in the health sector, the Ministry and its
      Departments; the second line o f action focuses on the availability, deployment, use and
      management o f human resources in the sector; the third focuses on the availability,
      deployment, use andmanagement o fmaterialresources init, andthe fourth line o f action
      focuses on the availability and use o f information for the making o f policies and
      strategies and for daily operations. Each o f these lines o f action has several distinct CB
      operations. The different lines o f operation will be conducted in parallel, but the
      operations withineach line will be conducted sequentially, since the outputs o f each serve
      as inputsinto the next.

  9. All operations start with analytic work and then continue with implementationor actual
      CB activities. All o fthe analytic work will be carried out inPhaseIo fthe action. All will
      specify what capacity building activities need to be implemented and these will be
      includedinPhase 11. Phase Iwill be completed within 12 to 18 months from the start o f
      the HSPP and Phase I1will start thereafter and be completed by the closing date o f this
      project. The Ministry wishes to conduct much of the work in a participative way,
      involving staff at all levels in identifying capacity gaps and opportunities for capacity
      building. The analytic work will therefore consist not only of data collection and desk
      analysis, but also o f in-depth discussions with M O H management and staff, as well as
      relevant stakeholders.



                                                   90

   10. Two modes of work will be used to improve understanding and maximize the generation
      o f ideas for CB: an expert-based mode and a staff-based mode. The first mode will be
      based on the use o f experts in designing each operation, collecting documentary data,
       conducting observations andmeasurements, interviewing staff at all levels and discussing
       their conclusions andrecommendations with staff andManagement. Each operation will
       be assignedto a team o f experts with a mix o f skills inpublic health, management and
      productivity improvement.

   11.The secondmode ofwork will bebasedon the use of staff inthinkingthrough the work
       processes o fwhich they are a part, and assessingtheir own practices at work. This will be
       done through pre-designed Staffopinion Surveys. Three surveys will be conducted bythe
       Ministry:one at the start ofthe NHSP project, one at mid-term and one towards the end
       o fthe project. The data collected inthe first survey will be usedby the experts to confirm
       their own findings, deepen the understanding of capacity constraints and generate ideas
       for capacity building. The data collected in the second survey will provide the experts
       and the MOH initial feedback on capacity building action undertaken, as well as
       additional ideas on what can be done. The data collected inthe third survey will be used
       bythe Ministryandall participating EDPs to evaluatethe results o fthe CB program.

   12. The Ministry will use all o f the technical assistance included inthe action plan- all the
       consulting assignments - as the first steps in building its own capacity. The consulting
       assignments are, therefore, designed to maximize knowledge transfer from the experts to
       specialized staff inthe MOH. The Ministry's objective is not to turn its staff into experts
       inthe areas concerned, but to make sure that by the end of the assignment they can do
       some o f the work independently and well. This will be done inthree ways. First, each o f
       the teams assigned with an operation will include Ministry staff on a `hll-status' basis.
       This means that the staff will be full members o f the team, will be assigned with work
       like other members of the team and will be freed by the Ministryto work with the team
       fully at all times when the team will be engaged inthe assignment. Secondly, the TORS
       for each assignmentwill include a clear description o f the work that MOHstaffwill carry
       out andwhich expert on the team will mentor the staff and supervise their work. Thirdly,
       ineach case the TOR will specify the skills to be transferred and indicate milestones by
       which they are to be acquired.

E.SpecificCBOperationsbyAction Line

13.    Action Line One: Division of Labor and the Structure of Work

13.1   HorizontalFunctionalAnalvsis - The aim of this activity is to review the division of
       labor among all key agencies in the health sector and, if necessary, improve it. The
       analysis will focus on agencies at the national level. The key question to be answered by
       the consulting team is whether or not the current division of labor is optimal and,       if
       not, how it can be optimized. The output i s expected to be a report providing a clear
       answer to this question. If the report points at constraints on capacity, resulting from
       unclear, or inadequate, division o f labor, or from gaps or overlaps inresponsibility among



                                                 91

     these agencies, the Ministrywill discuss the division o f labor with them and agree on a
     modified division of labor.         Changes in the allocation of roles, functions and
     responsibilities may require the buildingo f capacity in some agencies. Capacity building
     activities will beincluded inthe Implementation Plan.

13.2 VerticalFunctionalAnalvsis-The output ofthe horizontalanalysiswill serveas an
     inputinto the verticalone. The horizontal analysis will establishprecisely the roleofthe
     MOH, makingit possible to take the next step and assess the division o f labor incarrying
     out this role within the Ministryitself along its vertical lines o f authority. This refers to
     the respective sub-roles o feach level: the national, regional anddistrict levels o fthe
     Ministry,aswell as the roles oflocalbodies, vis-a-vis the roleofthe Ministry's district
     offices. This analysis i s particularlyrelevant at this time inview o fthe Government's
     decentralization policy. Thekey questionsto be answered by the consulting team in this
     exercise are whether or not the Government has adequate capacity to decentralize
     health services and, ifnot, what capacity should be built at each level to ensure the
     success of decentralization. Two outputs are expected o fthis exercise: (a) an
     operationally-based, clear description of the required, anddesired, division o f
     responsibilities among all three levels within the MOH, as well as between its regional
     anddistrict-level offices andother bodies andagenciesoperating at these levels; and(b) a
     CB program aimed at helpingthe M O H ensure that capacity for decentralization i s in
     place. This program will beincludedinthe Implementation Plan.

13.3 DivisionofLaborandOrganizationStructurewithinthe MOH-Once conclusions
     are reachedwith respectto the division o f labor among the national, regional anddistrict
     levels inthe vertical functional analysis, the Ministrywill proceedinto the next step: to
     review (a) the roles andresponsibilities of all the departmentswithinit and all the units
     within these departments, and(b) the organization structure inwhich these roles and
     responsibilities are placed. Thekey questionsto be answeredby the consulting team in
     this exerciseare whether or not the internal division of labor in theMinistry is optimal,
     whether or not the respectiveroles of and responsibilitiesof all departmentsand unit
     are clear and, ifnot, what could be a better organization structurefor the Ministry.
     The outputs ofthis exercisewill include (a) a comprehensive report onthe structure of
     the Ministry,including the reportingand/or other functional relationships among all o fits
     departmentsandunits, (b) aproposalfor reorganizationaction if,inthe opinionofthe
     consulting team, modifications to the current structure can lead to improvements inthe
     Ministry's efficiency and effectiveness, and (c) recommendations on capacity building
     activities that may berequired to ensure the success o freorganization. The Ministrywill
     consider the proposal andthe recommendations and, ifacceptable, will includethe
     recommended CB activities inthe Implementation Plan.

13.4 ConductingJob Analvsis andWritingJob Descriptionsat the MOH-Having
     confirmedand/or modified andclarified the divisiono f labor at sector andorganization
     levels, the Ministrywill proceed to the next step, focusing onjob design and the
     organization o fwork atjob level. The Ministrybelieves that effectivejob designs and
     sensible organization o fwork at individuallevels influence efficiency, job satisfaction
     andthe quality ofworking life. The needto review andimprovethemexists at all times.



                                                92

    However, this need will increase significantlywith decentralization. Two key questions
    are to be answered by the consulting team in this exercisetherefore. Thefirst is
    whether or not the scope and content of eachjob, the main tasksinvolved in it, and the
    main methods and techniques used by thejob holders to carry it out, are optimal or
    need to be redesigned. Thesecond is what mix of skills and what levels of competency
    are neededfor the optimal execution of eachjob. The expectedoutputs include (a)
    proposals for changes injob design where applicable, (b)job descriptions for alljobs and
    (c) person specifications for eachtype o f ajob.

14. Action Line Two: Availability, Deployment, Use and Management of Human
    Resources

    14.1   --the
           Developing a methodologyto assess work loads and determine optimalstaffing
           levels       M O Hwishes to focus on the size o fthe workforce available to it andits
           distributioninthe system. Its keyobjective inthis regardi s to ensure that the number of
           people deployed inall o f its health facilities i s optimal. Inorder to do so the Ministry
           will develop amethodology to assesswork loadinthese facilities andto determine the
           numberoftrained andqualifiedoperatives requiredto carry out a givenwork load. In
           line with this, the key tasks in this consulting assignment are (a) to develop the
           methodology and (b) to train Ministry H R staff in the use of this methodology. Once
           this is done, the Ministry's HR staff inthe DOHSwill review andassessthe staffneeds
           inallhealthfacilities, compare the needswith existing stafflevels andinitiateastaff
           adjustment andre-deployment action. The outputs o fthis assignmentwill include (a) a
           report containing a description o fthe methodology, how it was designed andtested and
           what were the results o fthe testing; (b) a briefmanualproviding clear, step-by-step
           instructions on how to conduct work load analysis at the MOH; and(c) a group o f three
           M O Hstafftrained andable to carry out work load analysis without further TA. This
            group will carry out the analysis inall health facilities andrecommend staffing levels
           basedon standardcriteria.

    14.2    Improvingthe Managementof Human Resourcesinthe MOH- The ministry
            regardsits staffas the most important strategic resourceat its command. Itis therefore
            seeking to transform its `personnel management' functioninto a fully-fledged`human
            resourcesmanagement' function. The Ministrywill review and, ifnecessary, re-
            conceptualize the objectives andcontent o fthe function, as well as its methods and
           practices, throughout the organization. Thespecific objective of this consulting
            assignment is to help theMinistry conduct the review, re-conceptualize and re-define
            thefunction, develop a new visionfor it, and design a capacity building plan to build
            its capacity to manage human resources based on the new definition and the new
            vision. The expectedoutputs o fthis assignmentinclude a report onthe status o fhuman
            resourcesmanagement inthe MOHtoday and a capacity buildingprogram for the
            function. This will become part o fthe Implementation PlaninNHSPP.

    14.3    Improvingthe Skills Mix and the Competencv Levels of Staff inthe MOH- The
            Ministrybelievesthat improvements inthe skills' mixesandthe competency levels of
            its staff can leadto muchhigher productivity. Itregardsthe provision o fin-service, on-



                                              93

         the-job andoff-the-job training as animportant tool for improvingboth. Itwould like
         therefore to design and deliver suchtrainingto key staffina numbero fkeyjobs
         throughout the system. Theobjectives of this consultingassignmentare (a) to conduct
         a skills' needs analysisfor persons operatingin thesejobs, (b) to develop a
         comprehensivemulti-year trainingprogramfor them, and (c) to assess the capacity
         of theMinistry either to deliver the training or to manage training contractsand
         supervise the deliveryof training by externalproviders. The outputs expectedo fthe
         consulting team include (a) areport on the current skills' gap, (b) aproposal for an
         overall training strategy as well as specific guidelines for the design ofthe training
         program, (c) a detailed multi-year trainingprogram and, ifapplicable, (d) a proposal for
         thebuildingo fcapacity either within the Ministryandor indesignatedpublic training
         institutions to carry out the training fimction and deliver training. The trainingprogram
         will beincludedinthe Implementation PlanofHSPP.

   14.4  Improvingthe Oualitv of LeadershipandManaPementinthe MOH- The Ministry
         i s facedby a growing need for personswho can serve effectively inpositions of
         leadership andmanagement at all levels. Theneedi s going to increase greatly withthe
         expansion o f services, the implementation of decentralization andthe assumption o f
         managementresponsibility for 100programs hitherto managed directly by development
         partners.TheMinistrywishes to ensurethe availability of a sufficient number ofgood
         managersinthesehealth facilities bothtoday andinthe future through improved
         planning,improvedrecruitment andinductionofnewmanagersinto their positions, and
          effective managementtraining. Theobjectives of this consultingassignmentare to (a)
         assess the number of managers that will be required and available in the system in
         the next 10years, (b) assess the mix and level of skills that are required today, and
          will be required in thefuture, bypersons in managementpositions, (c) assessthe
          currentprovision of management training both quantitatively and qualitatively, (d)
         propose ways to enhancethe design and delivery of on-the-job and off-the-job
          training, and (e) propose ways that theMinistry canfollow to ensurethat the
          required number ofpersons, with the required skills'profile at entry, will be
          available to it. The outputs expectedo fthe consulting team include a report on the
          status o fmanagement inthe Ministrytoday, includingprojections o fthe numbers o f
          managersthat will berequiredinthe near fbture, a management trainingprogramfor
          the M O H and localbodies at regional anddistrict levels, and aproposal for capacity
          buildinginagenciesprovidingmanagementtraining. Thetraining program andthe CB
          program for management training agencieswill be includedinthe Implementation Plan
          o fNHSPP.

15.Action Line Three: Availability, Deployment, Use andManagement of Material Resources

   15.1   A Survey of the Availabilitv, Distributionand Use of MedicalandLaboratorv
          EquipmentinGovernmentHospitalsandClinics
   15.2   A Survey of theAvailabilitv, DistributionandUse of Drugs,vaccinesand medical
          suppliesin GovernmentHospitalsandClinics
   15.3   A Survey of theAvailabilitv, Distributionand Use of Non-Medical EsuiDmentin
          GovernmentHospitalsand Clinics



                                             94

            TheMOHwould liketo improvethe provision, utilizationandmanagementofmedical
            andlaboratory equipment, drugsandsupplies, as well as non-medical equipment inall
            o fits health facilities. Itwould like also to balance the provisiono f each o f these types
            o fresourceswith the provisiono fother resources, to achieve optimality o fuse for all o f
            them. Adequate provision, fullutilizationandefficientmanagementofthese resources
            will helppreventwaste andunder-utilization; it will helpimprove overallproductivity.
            Three distinct consulting exercises are plannedto cover all key types o fresources. The
            objectives of all of them are similar: (a) to review and, if necessay, re-define norms
            and standardsfor theprovision of the resources concerned, (b) to design and help the
            Ministy conducta survey of currentprovision and use of theseresources and
            determine iJ;and where, there is a need to augment theirprovision or improvetheir
            use, and (e) topropose ways to achieveoptimalprovision, adequate utilization and
            efficient resourcemanagement. Based on the findings andrecommendations o fthe
            three exercises, the MOHwill develop improvement programs for all o fits health
            facilities andwill include it inthe Implementation Plano fHSPP. The outputs o fthese
            assignmentswill include the following: (a) assessments of the current norms and
            standardsfor theprovision of the resources and recommendations for change,
            modification, or addition o fnorms/standards,ifnecessary;(b) inventories o f equipment,
            drugs and supplies; (c) assessments ofthe resourcesgapsbasedon comparisons ofthe
            existing inventories with the existing and/or proposed standards; (d) assessments o fthe
            correctness o fuse andthe level o futilization o f eachtype o f resource; and finally (e)
            recommendations for action.

16.Action Line Four: Theavailability and use of information for the making ofpolicies and
   strategiesandfor daily operations

    16.1    ReportingNeedsAnalvsis andthe DesignofManagementReportsat the
            MOH- The greatestimpact onproductivityinrecent times haveresulted from the
            use o f fuller, quicker andmore reliable information, bymanymore managers and
            workers at all levels, to monitor operations, assess outputs andoutcomes and
            make decisions -both at the operational and at the strategic level. This was made
            possible by advancesininformationtechnology. The objective o fthe Ministry i s
            to take advantage o fthis trend andimprovethe availability, quality anduse o f
            information inmanaging the health system at all levels. Theobjectives of this
            assignment are to (a) conduct a Management Reporting NeedsAnalysis in the
            MOH, (b) review the regular reports that managers receivecurrently and how
            they are used, (e) recommend improvementsin the design and use of these
            reports and (d) design aplanfor their implementation.The Ministrywill include
            thisplaninthe Implementation PlanofNHSPPandwill implement ittogether
            with the rest ofthis project.

F.TimetableandSequencingofActions

17. As indicated earlier, all o fthe capacity buildingassignmentswill start with analytic
    activities andproceed into actual capacity buildingonly once the analytic activities have



                                                95

   been completed. As soon as the project i s effective, the Ministrywill initiate the analytic
   activities inthe first assignmentineachof the four lines o f action. Immediatelyupon
   completion of eachassignment, the Ministry will simultaneously start implementingthe
   CB activities recommended init andmove into the analytic activities inthe next
   assignmentinline. The Ministryexpects to complete the analytic work inthe first four
   assignments within 6 to 12months and all the rest within 24 months from the start o fthe
   project.

G.Management, Supervision,Monitoring andEvaluation

18. The capacity buildingaction plani s both extensive andcomplex. Its success will depend,
    among others, on efficient management and supervision. The Ministry will appoint a
   high-level official to be incharge o f this action planand carry the responsibilityfor its
    implementation. The Ministrywill hold dialogue with DFIDto engage a management
    consulting firmto managethe implementation o f the action planon a full-time, day-to-
    day basis within the overall Technical Assistance Plano fHSPP. The consulting firm
    will work closely with, andreport to, the Ministry's official incharge.

19. As indicated earlier, the Ministryi s planningto conduct staff opinion surveys three times
    duringthe life ofNHSPP.One ofthe reasonsfor doingthese surveys isto take advantage
    o fthe intimate knowledge and substantial experience o f staff at all levels and learn from
    themwhat canbedoneto improveitsproductivitybuta second, andmost important,
    reasoni s to helpmonitor andevaluate the progress and success o fthe capacity building
    action. The first survey will beconducted immediatelyuponcommencement o fthe
    project andwill serve as a base line. The secondwill be conducted at mid-termandwill
    helpmonitor andassessthe progress o fimplementation. The thirdone willbe conducted
    at the endo fthe project andwill help assess the success o fthe activities.

20. One final consulting assignmentwill be dedicated to the evaluation o fthe capacity
    buildingcomponent ofthe project. Thiswillbe carried out at the endo fthe projectbyan
    independentfirmnot involvedinthe implementation stage. Thethirdstaffopinion survey
    will serve as the basis for the evaluation, but additional observations and sources o f
     informationwill beused.




                                               96

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33565

   80                                                                                                82                                                                          84                                                                               86                                                                                 88




                                                                            Humla                                      C
30                                                                                   Karnali                                H                                                                                                                                                                        NEPAL                                                                 30

                                                                                                    HUMLA                         I
                                     DARCHULA                                                                                         N                                                                                   NEPAL
                                    Darchula    I                                                                                           A
                                           L                         BAJHANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRIMARY ALL-WEATHER HIGHWAYS
                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRAVELLED/EARTHEN ROADS
                                      A                                 Chainpur                                 MUGU      Mugu
                         Saifaidi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
              Mahakali                                FAR                                                                 Karnali
                 BAITADI          K                                              BAJURA
                                                                         T                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOMESTIC (PAVED) AIRPORTS
                                             WESTERN
                             A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
                                                   Dipayal                                                 K    A    R     N    A    L   I
                 Dadeldhura                                                                            Jumla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MUNICIPALITIES
                        H                                              E
                                                                                                             JUMLA
             DADELDHURA                                                 ACHHAM
                                              DOTI                                      KALIKOT
                                                                                                                                               DOLPA                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                  A                                                  Achham                                     MID
       Mahendranagar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                 S
             M                                                                                            WESTERN                                                           MUSTANG                                                                                                                 ZONE BOUNDARIES

      KANCHANPUR                Ataria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDARIES
                                            KAILALI                                     DAILEKH        JAJARKOT                                                               I
                                                                                                      I                                                                  I  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                    Dhangadhi                              SURKHET                     Jajarkot             RUKUM
                                                                                                 R                                                                A                      MANANG
                                                                                                                                                                                  Marsyangdi
                                             Kailali                           BheriBirendranagar                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                             E                                                                                                              Budhi

                                                                                Babai                        SALYAN                                      AWMYAGDI                                         Gandaki
                                                                                                                                                                              WESTERN
                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                         BARDIYA        H                   Salyan
                                                                                                                                T    I                                 Gandaki
                                                                                                                                                   D                                 G A N D A K I
                                                                                          Chisapani               A       P    Libang                              Kali           KASKI      LAMJUNG          GORKHA
                                                                                    B                        R                                   BAGLUNGBaglung
                                                                                          Kohalpur                       ROLPA
                                                                Gulariya                                                                                                            Pokhara      Besishahar
                                                                                                BANKE                                                                       T                                                             RASUWA
                                                                                                          Tulsipur                   PYUTHAN    GULMI                                                                      B   A   Trisuli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dhunche
                                                                          Nepalganj                                   Tribhuuvannagar Pyuthan    Tamghas               PARBA                                                          G                                                                Mt. Everest                                                         28
28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                        SYANGJA                            Gorkha
                                                                                                                                              Sandikharka                                                                                         A  T    IKodari
                                                                                                                                                                                       TANAHU                   DHADINGBidur    NUWAKOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R                     A
                                                                                                                                        ARGHAKHANCHI                                                     Mugling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                  DANGDEUKHURI                              PALPA    Tansen                                                                                       Barhabise
                                                                                                                                                          L  U    M       B    I   N    I                                                KATHMANDU                              U                       H
                                                                                                                  Koilabas             KAPILBASTU                                                                                                              Lamosangu
                                                                                                                                                                Butwal                               Bharatpur        Naubise               BHAKTAPUR                                           SOLUKHUMBU
                                                                                                                                                     RUPANDEHI          NAWALPARASI                                          Lalitpur                                        PJiri    Koshi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Banepa       Dhulikhel                                        T           SANKHUWASABHA              TAPLEJUNG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                   Narayani                                                                                                                     EASTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                               CHITWAN                                          Bhaktapur
                                                                                                                                      Taulihawa     Bhairahawa                                                                  Bhimphedi                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LALITPUR                           K        Tama
                                                                                                                                                                          Parasi                     N                                                                                                                    K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RAMECHHAP                                                    Num
                                                                                                                                                                                                          A                  Hetauda          PALANCHOK              A                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bhikhathori
                                                                                                                                                                                                               R             MAKWANPUR            KAVRE                                           M                     Arun                                     INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A                                               Ramechhap                                                                 Taplejung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARSA       A      CENTRAL                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N               OKHALDHUNGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N                                                                R                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SINDHULI                                                BHOJPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                     A     Sindhulimadi                  KHOTANG       Bhojpur                    THUM   Phidim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BARA                                                                A                                S
                                                                                                                                                          To Ghazipur                                                                     T                                              Bhaduare                                    TERHA              H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kalaiya                        J     ARI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AHA
                                                                                   I    N      D     I    A                                                                                                                                     SARLAHI                                     G                                     HDhankuta PANCHTHAR               To Gangtok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DHANUSHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dholkebar                                    Koshi                           Ilam
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Raxaul               RAUT                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Malangwa                                             UDAYPUR     Sun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAHOTT                                                           DHANKUTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A                                                    ILAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gaighat           Koshi    Dharan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gaur                                                  SIRAHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lahan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Janakpur          S                                SUNSARI                                         Siliguri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sapta                        Damak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jaleswar                       Siraha                         Inaruwa

                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Muzaffarpur                                                                        SAPTARI                      MORANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chandragadhi
       0                   40                       80                    120              160 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                     Jaynagar                                                            JHAPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rajbiraj                                                     Bhadrapur          BANGLADESH

       0              20                  40                    60             80            100 MILES                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Biratnagar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jogbani



        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To      To
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Purnia Dinajpur
2680  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                               82                                                                            84                                                                                86                                                                                 88               26

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUGUST 2004

