Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3980-NEP 
 
GRANT NUMBER H125-NEP 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(
Health Sector Program
)
between 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 29, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3980-NEP 
 
GRANT NUMBER H125-NEP
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 2004, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association ha
s
received: (i) the Borrower’s Health 
Sector Strategy: An Agenda for Change (HSS), dated December 2003; the Borrower's 
Health Sector Program – Implementation Plan (NHSP-IP); and a letter of health sector 
policy, dated July 26, 2004 (the Policy Letter), jointly articulating the objectives, policies, 
strategy and program for the health sector (collectively referred to hereinafter as the 
“Health Sector Program” or “HSP”); and (ii) the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of said HSP;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(C)  
the Borrower intends to obtain funds (the DFID Grant) from Department 
for International Development (DFID), a government department of the United Kingdom, 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the DFID Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and DFID;  
 
(D) 
the Borrower, the Association and the DFID  have agreed to enter into a 
Joint Financing Arrangement, which makes general arrangements for the processing of 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by 
DFID and the Association, and any other agencies or organizations intending to 
participate in the financing of the HSP, and providing for common procedures on 
monitoring, procurement, financial management, disbursement, cooperation and 
exchange of information related thereto;  
 
(E) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
 
WHEREAS (F)  the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to extend the Financing to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AWPB” means an Annual Work Plan and Budget, an operational plan 
prepared on a Fiscal Year basis and prepared and approved in accordance with 
paragraph 3  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“FAR” means the Borrower’s Financial Administration Regulations, 
2056 (1999), as amended from time to time; 
 
(c) 
 “FE Account” means the foreign exchange account referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve month period corresponding to 
any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences and ends in mid July of each 
calendar year; 
 
(e) 
“FMR” means each Financial Monitoring Report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
 “Health Care Waste Management Plan”  means the Borrower’s health 
care waste management plan to be complied with in the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(g) 
“HSP Procurement Manual” means the procurement manual  to be 
prepared by MOH for procurement of works, goods and services in the health sector, and 
which will be based on the Borrower’s FAR, to provide operational guidelines to staff 
responsible for procurement at the village,  district and department levels; 
 
(h) 
 “Implementation Plan” means the NHSP-IP 2004, which provides the 
operational framework for the Annual Work Plan and Budget of the Five Year Health 
Sector Program; 
 
(i) 
“JFA” or “Joint Financing Arrangement” means the arrangement referred 
to in Recital D of the Preamble of this Agreement, to be entered into by the Pooling 
Donors (as hereinafter defined) and the Borrower, providing for common procedures on 
Page  4
-
3
-
monitoring, procurement, financial management, disbursement, cooperation and 
exchange of information in connection with the HSP; 
 
(j) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(k) 
 
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the central bank of the Borrower 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Nepal Rastra Bank 
Act, 2058 (2001); 
 
(l) 
“Nepalese Rupee” and the sign “NRs” mean the currency of the 
Borrower; 
 
(m) 
 “Pooling Donors” means the Association, DFID and any other national 
or international agencies or organizations which may join the JFA in accordance with its 
terms, in order to pool their funds for  the financing of  the  HSP;  
 
(n) 
“Pooled Funds” means the Pooling Donors’ Credit, Loan or Grant, as the 
case may be;  
 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
July 2004 covering the initial twelve (12) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(p) 
“Report Based Disbursements” means withdrawal of funds from the 
Financing  Account using the method referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(q) 
“VCDP” means Vulnerable Communities Development Plan, prepared 
by the Borrower in consultation with the local communities in the Project area and 
describing a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits 
accruing to 
dalits
 and disadvantaged 
janajati
 (indigenous people) under the HSP. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000) (the Credit); and 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty seven million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,300,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in each 
case, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing; or (ii)  amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by the Borrower to meet the reasonable cost 
of goods, works and services required under an AWPB to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a foreign exchange account (FE Account) in Nepal Rastra Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
FE Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 2010, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum;  and (ii) a commitment charge on the amount of 
the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of 
June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account (as the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
Page  6
-
5
-
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15  in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2014, and ending June 15, 2044. 
Each installment up to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2024, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita Gross National Product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MOH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate health, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project, as and when applicable, and as relevant, in accordance with the 
JFA, the HSP Procurement Manual, the Procurement Plan, the Implementation Plan, the 
Health Care Waste Management Plan, the VCDP, and  other provisions specified in the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the annual budget allocated to MOH 
shall not be less than 5% of the total of the Borrower’s national budget for each Fiscal 
year. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the HSP. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Financing Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the As
sociation’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 above, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the HSP, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
consistent with the existing government’s financial management 
system;  
 
(ii) 
describes output-and-outcome-based physical progress in HSP 
implementation, on an annual basis; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the HSP, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first Fiscal Year 
trimester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the 
first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first Fiscal Year trimester; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent Fiscal Year  trimester, and shall 
cover such Fiscal Year trimester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the DFID Agreement shall have been 
terminated or the right of the Borrower to withdraw proceeds of the DFID Grant shall 
Page  10
-
9
-
have been suspended; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate 
funds for the HSP are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the DFID Agreement has been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this  
agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Singha Durbar   
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1)4259-891  
 
Page  11
-
10 
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
   Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
   248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
     64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL  
 
By /s/ Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11 
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the allocation 
of the amounts of the Grant to the Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in such Category: 
 
Amount of the        Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated       Grant Allocated 
         % of 
 
(Expressed in 
       (Expressed in 
  Expenditures 
Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Eligible expenditures              6,900,000                 27,300,000         Percentage of 
 
under each AWPB  
 
such Eligible                                                                        
Expenditures as 
the Association  
may determine 
for each FY  
from time to  
time 
 
__________            __________ 
 
TOTAL                           6,900,000                27,300,000 
 
==========         ========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” includes all 
expenditures  for goods, works and consultants’ services provided under the HSP, and all 
recurrent costs incurred under the HSP. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 3,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 16, 2004;  
 
(b)  
payments made for expenditures under any AWPB, until the annual 
allocation and disbursement targets for such AWPB shall have been agreed during annual 
reviews; and 
 
Page  13
-
12 
-
(c) 
payments made for expenditures for goods, works or consultants’ 
services supplied under a contract which the Association or any national or international 
financing institution or agency, other than the Pooling Donors, shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under any other credit, loan or grant.   
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Financing Account to be made 
on the basis of reports specified in Part B.2 of this Schedule to be submitted to the 
Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule (Report Based Disbursements).   
 
B.   
FE Account 
1. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the FE Account 
has been opened in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, withdrawals 
from the Financing Account under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule shall be deposited by the Association into the FE Account in accordance 
with the provisions of this Part B. 
 
2. 
Each request for withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be made on the 
basis of the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule, such reports to include the 
FMR and other information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower; 
provided, however, that in the case of the first request for withdrawal submitted to the 
Association, before any withdrawal has been made from the Financing Account, the 
Borrower shall submit to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the two (2) trimester period of the fiscal year.      
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each request for withdrawal of an amount of the Financing, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Financing Account and 
deposit into the FE Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part B.2 of this Schedule applicable to such withdrawal request, is required 
to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the eight-month period 
following the date of such reports. 
 
4. 
Amounts deposited by the Association into the FE Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the FE Account using Financing proceeds, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the FE Account:  
 
Page  14
-
13 
-
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part B.2 of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for Report Based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Financing Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the FE Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Report Based Disbursements.  
 
6. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
FE Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Financing Account pursuant 
to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the FE Account may be 
made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination. 
 
7. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
FE Account using Financing proceeds was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the FE Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the FE Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b)  
If the Association determines at any time that any Financing  proceeds on 
deposit in the FE Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six (6) month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
proceeds. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the Financing proceeds on deposit in the FE Account.  
 
Page  15
-
14 
-
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Financing Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
Page  16
-
15 
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project, which is an integral part of HSP, is to expand access 
to, and increase the use of, essential health care services, especially by underserved 
populations.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Strengthening Service Delivery 
1. 
Increasing access to essential health care services, in a phased manner, through: 
 
(a) 
the carrying out of a program to provide essential health care services 
including, 
inter alia
,
undertaking and promoting behavior change communication to 
increase accessibility to, and use of, essential health care services;   
 
(b) 
the carrying out, through local level relevant agencies, of a multi-sectoral 
approach to promote safer motherhood through establishing and gradually improving 
basic and comprehensive emergency obstetric care services in the Borrower’s territory, 
including awareness programs about the life threatening complications, and improved 
transport and financial protection for the poor; 
 
(c) 
strengthening the child healthcare system including, 
inter alia
,
expanding 
the national immunization program, maternal nutrition, and integrated management of 
childhood illness; and  
 
(d)     strengthening communicable disease control program, including vector 
borne disease control program. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the  decentralization of health services measures and improving 
the local-level management. 
 
3. 
Developing and implementing a strategy for strengthening partnership with non-
governmental organizations and the private sector, through: 
 
(a)  
the capacity-building of MOH in project implementation and monitoring 
including, 
inter alia,
 developing specific modalities of partnership at central and district 
levels, working guidelines, contracting models, regulatory framework  and training; 
 
(b)  
design and implementation of new service provider agreements; and 
 
Page  17
-
16 
-
(c) 
carrying out of large-scale pilot initiatives. 
 
Part B:
Sector Management and Capacity Building
1. 
 Provision of goods and technical advisory services for the carrying out of a 
series of sub-programs to improve the management of the health sector and each of the 
agencies concerned through clarifying the roles and functions of each agency, resolving 
role conflicts and removing functional gaps. 
 
2.  
Provision of goods and technical advisory services for the carrying out of a 
program to develop the function of asset management in the public health sector. 
 
3. 
Provision of goods and technical advisory services for the carrying out of a 
program to improve the deployment, utilization, efficiency and management of human 
resources. 
 
4.  
Provision of goods and technical advisory services for the carrying out of a 
program to improve the collection, analysis and use of information in the management of 
the sector, including the introduction of a management reporting system. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 15, 2009. 
Page  18
-
17 
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
Part A
:
General
A. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree all goods, works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Borrower’s Financial Administration Regulations (FAR) and with the provision of 
this Section I. 
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the FAR. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004. 
 
Section III
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A.  
Prior review
:
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following prior review procedures shall apply: 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods, works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.  
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms and Individuals
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to (i) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; and (ii) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by individuals estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more. 
 
Page  19
-
18 
-
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Paragraph A of this Section, the post review 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by 
Paragraph A of this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
19 
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall cause MOH to be responsible, at the central level, for the 
overall coordination, monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the Project, including, 
inter 
alia, 
overseeing the Health Sector Program, reviewing, approving, and coordinating, in 
consultation with the Pooling Donors, the implementation of the AWPB. 
 
Annual Work Plan and Budget and Joint Annual Review
2. 
The Borrower shall, no later than two (2) weeks prior to the joint annual review  
meeting to be held no later than October 31 of each year, furnish to the Association, an 
annual report summarizing the status of key indicators, relevant surveys, special studies 
and the health sector project expenditure review.   
 
3. 
 The Borrower shall cause MOH, not later than June 15 of each year,  or such 
later date as the Association may agree, to prepare and furnish to the Association an 
Annual Work Plan and Budget for the following FY, for its review and approval. Each 
such AWPB shall: (i) have been prepared in consultation with and based on data 
collected from the various stakeholders of the Project; (ii) include fully costed proposed 
activities for each output, linked with performance targets of the Project; (iii) include a 
description of how proposed activities shall be integrated into the existing structure and 
with ongoing activities at all levels; (iv) be in line with the HSP; and (v) include a draft 
Medium-term Expenditures Framework for the next FY. 
 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Association, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 1, 2007 a report, to constitute the basis 
upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed under the Project, and on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
Page  21
-
20 
-
(c) 
review with the Association, not later than February 1, 2008, or such 
later date as the Association shall reasonably request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(b) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations o
f
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  22
-
21 
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a 
development credit and development grant to its members. They apply to any 
development financing agreement providing for any such development finance to 
the extent and subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“8. 
“Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
 
“15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.; 
 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited.; 
 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant.; 
 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the 
Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and  
Article IX. 
 
Page  23
-
22 
-
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
 
6. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01. Financing Accounts. The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.” 
 
8. 
The phrase “including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to  
Section 6.02(c)(i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”, and to Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words “any other 
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association”.   
 
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied pro rata to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.”
 
