                                  Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                   Report No: ICR00001500


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
            (IDA 3980-NEP and IDA H125-NEP and IDA H368-NEP)

                                     ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.3 MILLION
                      (US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION
                     (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND A

                     GRANT (ADDITIONAL FINANCING)

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.3 MILLION
                       (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                                    NEPAL

                                    FOR A

                   HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM PROJECT


                                January 11, 2011


Human Development Sector Unit
Nepal Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective Date = January 1, 2011)

                                Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees
                                  NRs 71.44 = US$1
                                   US$ 0.01 = NRs 1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                           July 16 ­ July 15

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytical Advisory Activity                          IPR       Implementation Progress Report
AIDS     Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome                    JANS      Joint Assessment of National Strategy
AF       Additional Financing                                  JAR       Joint Annual Review
AusAID   Australia Agency for International Development        JFA       Joint Financing Agreement
AWPB     Annual Work Plan and Budget                           MDG       Millennium Development Goal
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                           MOF       Ministry of Finance
DALY     Disability Adjusted Life Year                         MOHP      Ministry of Health and Population
DfID     Department for International Development              M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
DoHS     Department of Health Services                         NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
EDP      External Development Partner                          NHSP I    1st Nepal Health Sector Program
FMIAP    Financial Management Improvement Action Plan          NHSP II   2nd Nepal Health Sector Program
FMIS     Financial Management Information System               ODA       Official Development Assistance
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report                           PDO       Project Development Objective
FY       Fiscal Year                                           QER       Quality Enhancement Review
GAAP     Governance and Accountability Action Plan             SWAp      Sector Wide Approach
HMIS     Health Management Information System                  TA        Technical Assistance
HCWM     Health Care Waste Management                          TTL       Task Team Leader
IDA      International Development Association



                                Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                              Country Director: Susan G. Goldmark
                               Sector Manager: Julie McLaughlin
                          Project Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg
                             ICR Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg
                          ICR Primary Author: Toomas Palu
                                                            NEPAL

                               HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS
Datasheet
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................. 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................ 17
6. Lessons Learned .............................................................................................................. 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......................... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................................... 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .......................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................... 37
Annex 5. Implementation Arrangements for Sector Wide Approach........................................ 39
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................. 41
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................... 56
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................ 57
MAP

Table 1. Project PDO indicators ................................................................................................... 14 
Table 2. Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) .............................................. 24 
Table 3. Project and Program Financing by Source ..................................................................... 24 
Table 4. Project Intermediate Outputs .......................................................................................... 25 
Table 5. Performance along IDA core indicators ......................................................................... 32 
Table 6. Share of health in national budget (NRs million), health expenditure in GDP (%) ....... 33 
Table 7. Share of EHCS from total budgetary expenditure (NRP million) .................................. 33 
Table 8. Capital and recurrent share of health budget (%) ........................................................... 34 
Table 9. Share of non-salary recurrent expenditure in health (NRS million, %) ......................... 34 
Table 10. Expenditure of allocated health budget (NRs million) ................................................ 34 
Table 11. Share of actual health sector expenditure by trimester ................................................. 35 
Table 12. Select Nepal macro-economic indicators ..................................................................... 36 
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Nepal Health Sector
Country:                Nepal                   Project Name:
                                                                          Program Project
                                                                          IDA-39800,IDA-
Project ID:             P040613                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          H1250,IDA-H3680
ICR Date:               01/14/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:                 NEPAL
Original Total
                        XDR 34.2M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 64.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 64.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Health and Population
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
 JICA
 Swiss Development Cooperation
 UNICEF
 World Health Organization (WHO)
 USAID
 DfID
 Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
 UNFPA
 UNAIDS
 kfW/GDC
 GFATM
 GAVI

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/04/2003     Effectiveness:             02/25/2005        02/25/2005
Appraisal:            05/27/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/09/2004     Mid-term Review:           02/01/2008        12/03/2007
                                     Closing:                   01/15/2010        07/15/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     12                  12
Compulsory health finance                                             1                    1
Health                                                                86                  86
Sub-national government administration                                1                    1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               16                  16
Child health                                                          17                  17
Health system performance                                             33                  33
Other communicable diseases                                           17                  17
Population and reproductive health                                    17                  17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Susan G. Goldmark                    Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:            Julie McLaughlin                     Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:       Albertus Voetberg                    Jagmohan S. Kang



                                                ii
ICR Team Leader:            Albertus Voetberg
ICR Primary Author:         Toomas Palu


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to expand access to, and increase the use of, essential
health care services, especially by underserved populations.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                                documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Contraceptive prevalence rate
                                                               48% (modern 46.6%(modern
Value
                35.4%(any method)                              methods)        methods)
quantitative or                               47% overall
                23.8% for low income                           35% for low 40.6% for low
Qualitative)
                                                               income          income
Date achieved     12/04/2001                  01/15/2010       07/15/2010      12/01/2009
                  Targets for low-income groups added at the time of AF.
Comments          Original target was for all methods & was achieved earlier than anticipated,
(incl. %          revised target is for modern methods only
achievement)      Percentages achievement against targets:
                  97% modern methods & 116% low income
Indicator 2 :     Proportion of normal deliveries conducted with skilled attendance
Value                                                          35% overall 32.6% overall
                  12.9% overall
quantitative or                               35% overall      10% for low 8.5% for low
                  3.6 % for low income
Qualitative)                                                   income          income
Date achieved     12/04/2001                  01/15/2010       07/15/2010      12/01/2009
Comments          Targets for low-income groups added at the time of Additional Financing
(incl. %          Percentages achievement against targets:
achievement)      93% (overall) and 85% (low income)
                  Proportion of children immunized against measles, diptheria, pertussis and
Indicator 3 :
                  tetanus (DPT3)
                                                               88-90%
Value                                                                          89.8-90% overall
                  71% overall                                  overall
quantitative or                               85% overall                      83% for low
                  62% for low income                           80% for low
Qualitative)                                                                   income
                                                               income
Date achieved     12/04/2001                  01/15/2010       07/15/2010      12/01/2009
Comments          Targets for low-income groups added at the time of Additional Financing



                                                iii
(incl. %        Percentages achievement against targets:
achievement)    102% (overall) and 103% (low income)
                Proportion of women and men who can correctly identify one method of
Indicator 4 :
                preventing HIV infection
Value                                                                     F: 88.1%
                F: 37.6%                 F: 75%
quantitative or                                                           M: 81%
                M: 50.8%                 M: 85%
Qualitative)                                                              2009 (F) 2006(M)
Date achieved 12/04/2001                 01/15/2010                       12/01/2009
Comments        Updates will only become available from the 2011 DHS data
(incl. %        Percentages achievement against taregst:
achievement) 117% for women (based on 2009 data) and 95% for men (based on 2006 data).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                  approval                             Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                 documents)                             Target Years
                  Percent of public sector health facilities at the district level and below, providing
Indicator 1 :
                  a complete package of ECHS as per national standards
Value
(quantitative     na                         75                                   79
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/01/2004                  01/15/2010                          12/01/2009
Comments
                  Updates will be available from 2011 NLSS and DHS.
(incl. %
                  Percentage achievement against target: 105%
achievement)
                Number of Sub Health Posts (SHPs) with decentralized management (by the
Indicator 2 :
                Village Development Committees /Local Health Management Committees)
Value                                                                         1433 SHPs, 34 HP,
                                            3129 health
(quantitative   1114 SHPs                                                     25 PHCC in 27
                                            facilities
or Qualitative)                                                               districts
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    01/15/2010                        12/04/2007
Comments
                As per MTR recommendation this indicator was not tracked after 2007 due to
(incl. %
                absence of elected local government.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of districts with their own five year health plans
Value
(quantitative   0                           0                  5              5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    01/15/2010         07/15/2010     07/15/2010
                Added at the time of Additional Financing. MOHP provided formula-based
Comments
                block grants to 5 District Health Offices with 5-year plans to supplement grants
(incl. %
                to DDCs from MOLD to address local health needs as a pilot
achievement)
                Percentage achievement against target: 100%
                Number of district/zonal hospitals with autonomous management boards, and the
Indicator 4 : number of district/zonal hospitals whose management will have been contracted
                out to the private sector and/or NGOs



                                                   iv
Value
(quantitative   1(1)                       10(5)               17(5)           29(5)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   01/15/2010          07/15/2010      12/01/2009
                Autonomous management board includes both district & zonal hospitals.
Comments        Number in brackets reflects no. of district hospitals contracted out to NGO
(incl. %        management.
achievement) Percentages achievement against targets:
                170% (autonomous boards) & 100% (NGO or PS contracted)
                Institutional capacity Assessment completed and appropriate management
Indicator 5 : actions initiated as per recommendations of capacity assessment after
                discussions among all stakeholders
Value
(quantitative   0                          1                                   0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   01/15/2010                          07/15/2008
Comments        Indicator dropped at mid-term. The Mid-Term Review concluded that initial
(incl. %        policy benchmarks for monitoring were not useful for monitoring actual sector
achievement) management improvement.
Indicator 6 : The percentage of MOH budget allocated to EHCS
Value
                                                                               75.1
(quantitative   61                         70
                                                                               FY 2009/10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   01/15/2010                          12/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Percentage achievement against target: 107%
achievement)
Indicator 7 : The percentage of the recurrent allocations going to non-salary costs
Value
(quantitative   31                         35                                  55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   01/15/2010                          12/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Percentage achievement against target: 157%
achievement)
Indicator 8 : The percentage of budget allocated to MOHP that is utilized
Value
(quantitative   69                         80                  85              84.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   01/15/2010          07/15/2010      12/01/2009
Comments        Target was revised in 2008 as original end-of-project target (80%) was achieved
(incl. %        in 2007 at 81%.
achievement) Percentage achievement against target: 99.8%
                The percentage of public health facilities having no drug stock outs for more than
Indicator 9 :
                one month in a year
Value                                                          Less than 25%
(quantitative   0                          100%                stock outs of 20%
or Qualitative)                                                10 tracer drugs



                                                v
                                                              in any PHF
Date achieved 12/01/2004                  01/15/2010          07/15/2010     12/01/2009
Comments        The original indicator was dropped after 2008 following announcement of free
(incl. %        drug scheme and was replaced with tracking stock-outs of 10 tracer drugs.
achievement) Percentage achievement against target: 100%
                The percentage of Public Health Facilities having a full complement of staff in
Indicator 10 :
                the assigned post
Value
(quantitative   70                        90                                 84
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                  01/15/2010                         12/01/2009
Comments        Sub health posts and health posts comprising paramedics and midwives from
(incl. %        facility survey.
achievement) Percentage achievement against target: 93%

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     10/22/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/29/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     10/31/2005     Moderately Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    5.60
                                                           Moderately
  4     04/23/2006     Moderately Satisfactory                                           16.76
                                                         Unsatisfactory
  5     08/21/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            16.76
  6     02/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            17.66
  7     08/22/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            33.83
  8     01/09/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   33.83
  9     07/31/2008         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            46.92
 10     01/18/2009         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            46.92
 11     07/29/2009         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            64.66
 12     02/24/2010         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   65.39


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of Project design (2003/2004), Nepal was a low income country with a per
capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of US$ 230. Half of the 23 million multi-racial,
multi-religious, and divided (along cast-, tribe- and other social attributes) population was
living under the poverty line. The political environment was unstable at the time because
of the Maoist insurgency and suppression of democratic governance by the monarchy.
Health and population indicators had been improving during the 1990s but still remained
poor, aggregate improvements masking significant inequities across regions, ethnic and
socio-economic groups. The Government's fiscal space was tight; priority of health
among government expenditures was low by international comparisons accounting for a
mere 5% of total government expenditures, or 0.8% of GDP ­ of which 42% was
externally financed. More than 70% of total health expenditure was private out-of-pocket
with the poor often foregoing health care when in need (50% of cases). In 2002, the
Government issued a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that sought to improve
the delivery of social services, in particular for socially excluded groups and regions. As
a related policy measure, the transfer of primary health care facilities (sub-health posts) to
local management committees was initiated (consistent with the 1999 Local Governance
Act) and contracting out the management of some hospitals was also begun. The 2004
Nepal Development Forum had highlighted the need for donor harmonization, and the
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007 sought to facilitate Nepal-led
reforms, improving governance through bringing resources closer to beneficiaries and
strengthening aid effectiveness. In the health sector, this was translated as improving
basic health services, especially for the poor through the Government-led Sector Wide
Approach (SWAp). It built on the experiences under the IDA-supported Population and
Family Health Project, implemented in 1994-2000, and the Poverty Reduction Support
Operation of 2003. The Government had adopted its "Health Sector Strategy: An
Agenda for Reform" and its implementation plan ­ the Nepal Health Sector Program
2005-2009 (NHSP I), later extended for one Fiscal Year until July 2010, that was
endorsed by all development partners as the framework for development assistance in the
health sector.

At the time of designing and processing Additional Financing (AF) to the Program in
2008, significant changes had taken place in the governance of Nepal ­ the monarchy
was abolished, a Comprehensive Peace Accord with Maoists had been signed, an interim
constitution for a "New Nepal" was adopted, and a broad based Interim Government had
been put in office. The interim constitution recognized access to health care as a
fundamental right, and health was identified as one of the three priorities of the three-year
Interim Plan (2007-2009). The World Bank 2007 Interim Strategy Note (ISN) sought to
protect the development reforms and outcomes already implemented during the post-
conflict period and emphasized state building through strengthening of the public sector,
the facilitation of genuine partnerships between public and private sectors and
communities, and the achievement of rapid impact through improved public services.



                                              1
In the context of this report, the "Project" refers to the bundle of IDA grants and credits
that supported the Nepal Health Sector Program (referred to as "Program") through a
Sector Wide Approach by pooling with the Government budget financing of the Program.
Thus, the implementation and results of the IDA financed Project are indistinguishable
from the implementation and results of the Program. DFID and, from 2009 onwards,
AusAID were the other External Development Partners (EDPs) supporting the Program
under the same pooled funding arrangements with their respective projects. Significant
earmarked support to the government's Program was also provided by a range of
agencies such as USAID, UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA, KfW, GTZ, JICA, UNAIDS, GAVI,
GFATM, and SDC.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was to expand access to, and increase the use of, essential health care services,
especially by underserved populations. The key indicators to measure improved access
comprised: (i) contraceptive prevalence rate; (ii) proportion of normal deliveries
conducted with skilled attendance; (iii) proportion of children immunized against measles,
diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DPT3); (iv) proportion of women and men who can
correctly identify one method of preventing HIV infection.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO remained valid and unchanged throughout the implementation of the Project
(including the period covered by the AF). A number of the PDO and Intermediate
Outcome monitoring indicators changed with some upward adjustment of targets where
progress had already been strong at the time of processing the AF. Other indicators were
dropped after the Mid-Term Review and some changed in definition during Project
implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

As the Project financed a slice of the Government Program budget, the intended
beneficiaries were similar to the beneficiaries of overall sector Program. As the Program
was prioritized towards essential health care services (70% of Program budget), largely
delivered through the basic district level primary health care services and
disproportionally utilized by poorer segments of population, and as the roll-out of the
components of essential health services program started with low human development
index districts there was the expectation that the benefits of the Program would
disproportionally accrue to the poor and disadvantaged. However, the monitoring of
disaggregated data per income level and social groups was only introduced later during
Project implementation. These data seem to confirm that the poor and excluded made
progress in bridging the gap in health outcomes ­ but insufficiently and not with regards
to all outcome indicators.




                                            2
1.5 Original Components

The Project design drew from the structure of the NHSP I. It consolidated the eight
NHSP I output areas into two main components:

Component 1: Strengthened Service Delivery sought to expand and/or strengthen 11
priority cost-effective Essential Health Care Services (Output 1) by: (i) developing and
implementing technical standards to improve service quality; (ii) providing in-service
training; (iii) ensuring drug availability; (iv) using behavior change communication to
strengthen demand for essential health care, promote health behaviors and promote client
focused, gender-sensitive attitude among providers; (v) improving out-reach services;
(vii) conducting Service Delivery Surveys. This component also included NHSP I
outputs of advancing the decentralization of health posts and sub-health posts to local
authority management and increasing the autonomy of district/zonal hospitals (Output 2)
as well as promoting Private Public Partnerships (PPP) in delivering essential health
services in selected districts (Output 3).

Component 2: Institutional Capacity and Management Development sought to strengthen
(i) Sector Management (Output 4) under SWAp context, including the distribution of
labor of key actors in the sector, strengthening key management tasks of planning,
programming, budgeting and monitoring; sustainable financing (Output 5) that sought to
provide greater transparency on resource allocation in the sector through Public
Expenditure Reviews (PER) and Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEF);
improve equity of health financing through need-based budget resource allocation
formula, review experiences and update policies on user fees, community insurance and
community drug programs; (ii) Drugs, supplies and equipment (Output 6) management
through strengthened decentralized procurement of drugs and medical supplies,
strengthened Logistics Management Division of Department of Health, and strengthened
Health Care Waste Management Plan; (iii) Human Resource Development (Output 7)
through review of staffing norms and practices, skills gaps, deployment and training of
staff to decentralized facilities and offices; (iv) Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) through
improvements in the collection, reporting, analysis of data and utilization of information.

1.6 Revised Components

Overall, the 8 Output areas of the NHSP I and the respective components of the Project
remained the same throughout the Project implementation, including the period covered
under the AF. However, the AF sought to support enhanced activities under selected
Outputs of NHSP I. In Essential Health Care Services (Output 1), the Government
sought to scale up interventions that had been implemented in selected districts, including
community based management of childhood illnesses, obstetric care and the prevention
and treatment of uterine prolapse. A new neonatal program was introduced in 10 districts
(including 7 with a low Human Development Index-HDI) as well as pilots to address
malnutrition. Government also expanded the control program for Japanese Encephalitis
and Leishmaniasis. Following the Nepal's 2006 Interim Constitution and Government
policies to remove barriers to the disadvantaged to use essential health care, the NHSP I



                                            3
adapted to ensure free health care at sub-Health Post, Health Post and Primary Health
Care Centre levels and for selected services up to district hospital level and also
introduced cash incentives to mothers and health professionals for skilled birth
attendance and facility based deliveries. These policies also led to updates in other
relevant NHSP I Output areas, including emphasis on human resources for maternal
health (Output 7), opening up publicly funded access for maternity care in the non-state
sector (Output 3), increased need for availability of essential drugs (Output 6), and the
need for additional M&E arrangements under Output 8. Under the SWAp arrangement
Project implementation was dynamic, responding to adjustments made in policies and
planned activities agreed upon during Joint Annual Reviews (JAR).

1.7 Other significant changes

As a response to some Project implementation issues and reflecting on accumulating
experience in addressing governance constraints under World Bank supported projects,
the AF introduced an agreed Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP)
addressing procurement, NGO contracting, financial management and monitoring and
evaluation issues. Nepal also became one of the seven first-wave countries to benefit
from the International Health Partnership (IHP+). This partnership served to further
consolidate harmonization in accordance with the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness
and further strengthen the SWAp over the life of the project, and continues to do so under
the health sector program 2010-2015.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project was well prepared, in particular considering the fragile country context. The
high ambition of sector wide project scope and country systems based implementation
arrangements, related risks and mitigation measures were explicitly researched and
discussed during Project preparation. The key ingredients for successful implementation
of the Project had come together at the time of Project preparation. A good foundation
was provided by stock taking of operational issues and prioritization of resources in the
health sector by the World Bank (2000), stock taking of sector policies and performance
of the Second Long Term Health Plan by the Government of Nepal (1999), and lessons
learned from the IDA funded Population and Family Health Project. The overall World
Bank country development assistance strategy for 2004-2007 had just been formulated1
and the fiduciary context had been laid out by Nepal Country Financial Accountability
Assessment and Nepal Country Procurement Assessment (2002). The World Bank had
produced and commissioned an impressive set of health sector studies and reports (19
included in the Project files that were complemented by another extensive set of reports
commissioned/produced by other development partners (15 in the Project files). These


1
  The 2009 IEG Country Assistance Evaluation concluded that only human development components of
the strategy ­ including health and education had performed satisfactorily under this CAS.



                                                4
inputs evidently contributed to the development of underlying NHSP I and its
implementation plan that were jointly and endorsed by development partners in 2004.
Safeguard policy issues had received due attention in the Social and Environmental
Assessments providing inputs to the respective Vulnerable Communities Development
Plan and Hospital Waste Management Plan. The run-up and results of the Nepal Aid
Effectiveness Forum in 2004 helped to facilitate and instill confidence into a more
aligned and harmonized sector support under Sector Wide Approach.

Both the original Project and AF underwent Quality Enhancement Reviews (QER) that
provided useful insights to fine tune Project design features and manage the risks. The
QER of the additional financing discussed and provided recommendations for ongoing
policy dialogue in decentralization, free health care, governance and accountability,
health financing and human resources.

In retrospect, more recognition of political economy risk management aspects in a fragile
country setting could have been considered during the preparation period, in particular
with regard to the ambition of selected institutional and policy reforms supported by the
NHSP I. Fragility should also have been considered a risk for achieving and delivering
service delivery outcomes. As it turned out, significant political changes occurred during
project implementation and at times the Government did not control large parts of the
country and these events did impact the NHSP I implementation in selected institutional
and policy reform areas. However, by design the SWAp arrangement in itself proved to
be a risk management tool providing flexibility to adjust institutional and policy reforms
and for helping to maintain the commitment and ensure resources for essential health
service delivery.

2.2 Sector Wide Approach

The Project was designed and implemented under a SWAp. The key building blocks of
SWAps and their application in the Project are described in Annex 5. Most key building
blocks were in place and operational. The MTEF was used for the Government
commitments to increase the health share in the budget and minimum expenditure
threshold for prioritized essential health care services. The twice-a-year Joint Annual
Review and consultation process (eleven JARs were conducted during Project
implementation) on the past year's sector performance and the next year's programming
was an evolving process. It moved from extensive discussion on inputs towards more
emphasis on sector outputs and outcomes, and from a facilitated discussion towards a
more effective policy discussion platform. The JAR process could be further
strengthened through applying a more structured approach, including the preparation of
sector performance reports of agreed format prior to JARs. From the Program
implementation experience, it also appeared that the 2nd JAR in an annual cycle to review
the next year's budget and work plan did not serve as effective consultation platform.
The follow-up NHSP II proposed to replace this one time formal event with a series of
less formal consultations among the Government and EDPs. As the number of pooling
partners under the NHSP I was limited (WB and DFID, later joined by AusAID), the
working and collaboration arrangements among pooling partners were informal and



                                            5
appear to have worked out well. As it is expected that under the NHSP II there will be
more EDPs joining the Joint Financing Arrangement (JFA) as pooling and non-pooling
partners, the stakeholders could consider agreeing more formally on collaboration
arrangements, including one-point communication channel with the government, division
of labor among EDPs in consultation and review processes of parts of Government health
sector program.

A particular feature worth mentioning in Nepal NHSP I SWAp was its management of
technical assistance. DFID, a pooling partner, provided parallel financing for retaining a
firm essentially under call-down contract arrangements, to provide analytical, advisory
and advocacy services to support Project and NHSP I implementation. The firm
maintained representation in the MOHP premises which facilitated cooperation and
coordination. This pragmatic approach proved to be feasible in Nepal context and
provided significant contribution to NHSP I monitoring and adjustments during JARs.

2.3 Implementation

The broadest parameter characterizing the successful implementation of the Project was
the disbursement rate ­ faster than originally envisaged prompting the need for additional
financing. The combination of a fast disbursement rate and early achievement of results
is indicative of the rapid scale up of successful interventions such as micro-nutrient
programs, the employment of Female Community Health Volunteers and the safe
motherhood program. This was due to smart design of implementation arrangements;
strong capacity building support; and, responsive implementation support, good
management of partnerships and oversight by the IDA team. By the time of account
closure the Project had disbursed over 99% of IDA resources.

An appropriate design was reflected in: (i) the SWAp modality, rooted in the Government
health strategy and at the same time providing flexibility to adjust to changing
circumstances; (ii) taking calculated risks of using Government systems of financial
management, procurement and M&E; (iii) pooling IDA funds with Government budget,
reliance on trimesterly FMRs for disbursements, and agreeing to audit arrangements that
timeline wise were longer than usual IDA practices (9 months rather than 6 months) but
better fit Government realities. This exemplified strong trust in the Government
counterpart and joint processes that was reciprocated and delivered results.

The considerable capacity building efforts in financial management and the assistance
provided for the government to meet the financial management requirements in particular
delivered clear returns in consistently improving Government budget execution (with
similar impact on Bank funds disbursement). This was also reflected in financial
management ratings that over the life of the Project improved from MS to S. A number
of procurement issues arose during Project implementation, prompting an IDA Integrity
Department investigation. But to the credit to joint action by the IDA team and the
Government counterpart, these issues were dealt with swiftly and mitigating measures
implemented quickly, so they did not result in significant implementation slowdown.
The Project and Program implementation also benefitted from good informal relations



                                            6
among the key stakeholders allowing any challenges to be addressed swiftly. The mid-
term review was well prepared with an independent background study providing
constructive recommendations for adjustments that were relatively easy to introduce.

The processing of the Additional Financing was appropriate to help scale-up a well
performing sector-wide program and enhance its impact, and allowing the
synchronization its second phase with the country's next Five-Year Plan which
commenced in July 2010.


2.4 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Overall, M&E design was complex and relied at times too heavily on DHS data, resulting
in some baseline data dating back as far as 2001, and resulting in some data not being
available at the time of the finalization of this ICR. The M&E framework comprised a
set of results' indicators and sector policy reform outcomes derived from the NHSP I.
The rationale for selecting PDO level indicators was clear: (i) they were intermediate
service delivery and KAP indicators amenable to the Program's prioritized support to
Essential Health Care Services; (ii) they were a sub-set with most need of improvement;
and, (iii) with clear contribution linkage to higher level MDG outcomes. A possible
alternative to a limited set of PDO indicators, in particular with broad PDO statements
and in SWAp context, could have been some composite indicator aggregating progress in
multiple dimensions but such indicators invariably will face significant methodological
challenges. Given that the rest of M&E framework enabled progress tracking in various
other dimensions of NHSP I implementation, the preparation team's choice was justified.

The monitoring framework for intermediate results followed the eight outputs: (i)
Essential Service Delivery; (ii) decentralization; (iii) Private Public Partnerships; (iv)
human resource management; (v) health financing and resource allocation; (vi) physical
assets and procurement management; (vii) human resource policy and management; (viii)
integrated management information systems. Although the eight outputs stayed relevant
throughout the Project and additional financing, underlying activities and indicators
underwent significant changes. Out of 10 original indicators, the latest ISR reported on 2
with modified definitions among newly added indicators. The changes reflected
changing policy and strategy context (e.g. a stay on decentralization reform due to lack of
elected authority at local level, introduction of free health services). Overall, the Project
team dynamically responded to the changing policy context, mid-term review outcomes
and the JAR process by adjusting ongoing intermediate results monitoring as appropriate
while maintaining consistent focus on PDO outcomes.

The monitoring framework included both quantifiable indicators as well as more
qualitative sector policy reform benchmarks. This may have posed some complexities in
concise reporting on results but given the SWAp arrangement, it was helpful and feasible
in shaping the policy dialogue on sector performance during JARs and for making
adjustments if prompted by changes in development context.




                                             7
It should be noted, though, that whereas the PDO emphasized improved access to
essential health care by underserved population groups, initially the M&E did not
disaggregate the performance across income and ethnic population strata. However, at
the time of mid-term review in 2007 and following the Government decision of
introducing free health care, a number of special studies were commissioned under the
overall program framework to analyze and track the progress in improving health
outcomes for marginalized groups in society. Additional targets for the lowest socio-
economic population quintile were included in the enhanced results framework under the
AF and they continue to be part of results framework for the follow-up project supporting
NHSP II.

The Project relied on two main data sources for tracking program progress: (i) the routine
HMIS; (ii) special purpose studies and surveys. Earlier studies (DHS2) had confirmed the
reliability of HMIS data that provided a constant stream of routine data. The special
purpose surveys were designed to provide deeper understanding on select aspects of
health program performance. They were supported by a consulting firm retained under
parallel financing from DFID and co-located in the Ministry of Health as well as by other
development partners supporting the Program. Altogether the DFID funded technical
assistance produced 48 study reports during the implementation of the Project, most of
them during the second half of Project implementation. The two other important survey
instruments were regular Health Facility Surveys and the Nepal Family Health Program
mid-term review survey financed through USAID.

M&E results were utilized during JAR process and in Implementation Supervision
Reports to the IDA management. According to informants and participants of the JAR
process, the initial focus on inputs and processes gradually shifted more towards
outcomes and results over the life of Program implementation.

As per IDA policy, the Project monitoring and reporting framework also included the
core indicators as from 2009. It needs to be noted that this institutional requirement was
imposed on the Project during the last year of Project implementation even though this
Project relied on Government systems. The unilateral way in which IDA Core Indicators
and targets were introduced may make the data for these indicators less reliable than for
others that were part of the original Results Framework design (see Annex 2).

2.5 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Overall the Project was implemented in high fiduciary risk environment. The country
level fiduciary assessments had been conducted in 2002 and for the health sector in 2003.
During implementation, further detailed health sector fiduciary assessments (procurement
and financial management) were carried out by IDA and DFID. All reviews concluded
that the overall risk in the health sector was "high," mainly attributable to the absence of
internal control system, the perception of corruption risk as well as to the lack of


2
    DHS ­ Demographic and Health Survey



                                             8
enforcement capacity of otherwise adequate regulatory framework. Over the life of
Project implementation, the overall fiduciary country environment did not improve (the
Country Policy and Institution Assessment ­CPIA- rating has declined to 3.3 compared
to highest of 3.5 in 2007). However, while many of the risk factors were beyond the
control of the sector, a number of initiatives were undertaken at the sector level to
mitigate the high risk environment.

On behalf of the pooled development partners, IDA provided the lead role in Financial
Management and Procurement. A Financial Management Improvement Action Plan
(FMIAP) was agreed upon with the Government which was closely monitored by EDPs
during joint reviews. The FMIAP outlined six areas where results were expected: (i)
developing performance based planning and budgeting system; (ii) improving the fund
flow system; (iii) timely submission of Implementation Progress Reports (IPR), including
the Financial Monitoring Report (FMR); (iv) strengthening of the financial information,
monitoring and feedback system; (v) improving the quality of assets management; and
(vi) preparing a capacity development plan for financial management. The Mid-term
review observed limited progress in these areas, and the FMIAP time-line was revised.
Given the high importance of the issue to the EDPs, the Ministry of Health and
Population (MOHP) subsequently gave the issue high priority. Technical Assistance
(TA) was put in place through DFID TA Program and progress was made in several key
areas. The follow-up fiduciary assessment by DFID in close collaboration with IDA in
2009 recognized progress as follows: (i) strengthened financial management
arrangements for the new healthcare financing program; (ii) streamlined budget heads
from 50 to 35; (iii) introduction of an Electronic Annual Work Planning and Budgeting
(e-AWPB 1.0) system in English and Nepali to facilitate the planning and budgeting; (iv)
electronic connection between MOHP and the Financial Comptroller General Office
(FCGO) to access data; (v) established logistics management information system; and,
(vi) development of procurement guidelines for International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
and for National Competitive Bidding (NCB).

In spite of the progress made, a number of challenges remained, such as the per recent
reviews and audit observations, including: (i) weak control environment, monitoring and
follow-ups; (ii) continued delays in preparing IPRs, FMRs and sector financial
statements; (ii) weak internal control environment, including lack of adherence to policy
directives for maintaining books of accounts or records, payments made without adequate
supporting documents, financial procedure rules not followed to freeze unspent balance at
the end of fiscal year or refunding unused advances; (iii) weak management and control
of bank accounts; (iv) no/weak/insufficient arrangements for fiduciary controls beyond
district offices; (v) inadequate follow-up on the audit observations and irregularities; (vi)
financial management understaffing at the central level; (vii) weak asset management;
(viii) slow progress in establishing a computerized Financial Management Information
System. The on line connectivity provided to the MOHP by FCGO for accessing
expenditure information through FCGO FMIS was discontinued. This indicates a need
for continuous financial management capacity strengthening.




                                             9
The Auditor General also carried out a performance audit in 2009 which revealed some
positive stories mainly on improvement in health service delivery. A number of
challenges highlighted in the performance audit are centered on the points discussed in
the above para but more particularly emphasizing the need to improve procurement,
improving monitoring of service delivery and ensuring adherence to various directives
and policies, controlling on some malpractices mainly related to non-compliance to
procedures and directives and ensuring service standards and quality. While steps have
been undertaken in procurement reform, other areas would be addressed through the
implementation of the Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) which have
been discussed and embedded into the design of the second phase of SWAp.

The final Implementation Progress Report related to the third trimester of FY2009/10 was
submitted within the disbursement grace period. IDA Credit 3980-NEP (SDR6.9
million) and IDA Grant H125-NEP (SDR27.3 million) were fully disbursed. Additional
Financing IDA Grant H368-NEP (SDR31.3 million) disbursed SDR30.69 million (98%),
and SDR0.613 million was cancelled. By the time of finalizing this ICR the only
outstanding issue of NHSP1 was the finalization of FY2008/09 audit. Although the audit
report was submitted, it was not acceptable as a large proportion of the health sector
expenditures had not yet been audited. Further, there are a number of system and control
issues raised by the Auditors, and IDA has taken necessary steps in sending follow-up
letters asking for the MOHP plan for improvements. During implementation of NHSP2,
sector governance and accountability which include implementation of GAAP will
receive a high priority.

The final sign-off of budget expenditures in the MOHP is the responsibility of the
Finance Controller who reports to the FCGO. MOHP and NHSP I implementation
benefitted from the continuity of staffing of this position over the life of the Project, so
that capacity building benefits and accumulated experience could contribute towards
improved disbursement performance. Both MOHP and FCGO should be commended for
this arrangement that was an exception to the usually faster rotation of these staff
between sector ministries.

Procurement under the Project followed the use of IDA International Competitive
bidding procedures for works over US$1 million per contract and goods for over
US$ 500,000 per contract. Procurement under these thresholds followed national
guidelines ­ with modifications - as described in the Government Financial
Administration Regulations, later replaced by the procedures described in the Public
Procurement Act. The procurement of goods was conducted by the Logistics
Management Division in the Department of Health and under defined thresholds
devolved to District Health Offices and District Development Committees. At the time
of Project preparation, the procurement risk was rated high for decentralized procurement
level and moderate at the level of central Department of Health. Responsibility for
procurement of works at central level was given to the Ministry of Planning and Works.
This appears to have been in line with Government systems although there was no
discussion of this arrangement or related procurement capacity appraisal in the Project
Appraisal Document. Procurement capacity strengthening actions were recommended



                                            10
and implemented during the Project, supported by DFID and KfW, and the provision of a
team of procurement assistance consultants, financed by KfW, was a key measure to
enhance capacity.

Procurement comprised 20-25% of the expenditures under the AWPB. Several
challenges had to be overcome during Project implementation. Preparing and agreeing
on procurement plans were delayed by months after agreement on the AWPB and
reasonable cost estimations were difficult in the Nepal context given the unregulated
retail prices. For new items to be introduced to Nepal, e.g. vitamin A, no local references
were available. International reference prices were initially not accessible and informal
quotes from potential suppliers highly variable. Stock management and final delivery
posed challenges as well. Decentralized procurement arrangement resulted in highly
variable performance and differential procurement outcomes in terms of quality and
prices of similar goods. This was mostly because of local level capacity constraints.
There were allegations of intimidation and collusion under centralized procurement of
goods by the Department of Health. However, these challenges were recognized and
additional risk mitigation measures were put in place after in depth capacity assessments
and investigations. These measures comprised: (i) introducing international price
comparisons; (ii) installing CCTV cameras in the Department of Health Services,
Logistics Management Division; (iii) conducting procurement capacity assessment; (iv)
agreeing with the Government about technical audits of procured equipment; (v)
"governance audit" into essential drugs, medical equipment and civil works procurement
with results leading to specific measures to strengthen procurement capacity and the
capacity to elaborate technical specifications; (vi) value for money analysis; (vii)
facilitating other agencies to use and strengthen Government systems, thus expanding
government ownership and at the same time consolidate support to strengthen fiduciary
systems. The requirement for all drug suppliers to meet Good Manufacturing Practice
(GMP) standards introduced under the NHSP I (and initially facing significant political
resistance), provided additional quality assurance for the drugs delivered.

As a result of capacity building and risk mitigation measures, a gradual improvement has
been noted in the quality of centralized goods and pharmaceuticals procurement. The
latest procurement ex-post-review of the procurement of goods resulted in a clean bill.
As reported by the Department of Health Services' Logistics Management Division, by
the end of the Project, the MOHP procurement plan was completely executed.
Centralized procurement of civil works, however, continued to face significant challenges
and irregularities. The MOHP may have had limited influence on activities conducted by
another Ministry and there may have been a missed opportunity to enter into capacity
improvement agreements at the time of Project preparation and negotiation as the
Ministry of Planning and Works appeared not to have been a party to Project preparation
and subject to relevant capacity assessments. The main recommendations coming out
from the NHSP I implementation comprise: (i) to review and streamline processes for
decentralized procurement that would still allow to take into account local preferences
and decentralized public finance management but ensure the efficiency and effectiveness
of overall procurement processes: (ii) to introduce multi-year procurement plans and
associated budget management arrangements, and enabling multiple delivery dates; (iii)



                                            11
to consolidate and mainstream procurement planning into AWPB process to avoid delays
after budget approval and improve efficiency and effectiveness of procurement; (iv) to
initiate a system for e-submission of bids in parallel with the traditional manual
submission method; (v) recognizing that procurement function is broader than processing
competition bidding, to strengthen procurement capacity with technical expertise in
works, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and supplies to strengthen the quality of
forecasting needs, understating of market situation and other technical aspects of
procurement processes.

Lessons learned during the implementation of NHSP I have been incorporated in the
agreed GAAP that was first introduced at the time of AF and further strengthened for the
follow-up project and reflected in the upgraded JFA for NHSP II.

Social safeguards. As Nepal has over 100 different social groups with 92 different
languages and a mix of Hindu, Buddhist, Kirat, Animism and Muslim religions, social
inclusion issues featured prominently in the national health strategy. The MOHP had
prepared a vulnerable community development plan drawing on findings and
recommendations of the Social Assessment and the Stakeholder Participatory Framework.
The key recommended actions to strengthen social inclusion comprised: (i) recruitment
from local populations for training and deployment of health staff to ensure cultural and
social sensitivity; (ii) generation, monitoring and acting upon data on health system
performance across gender, ethnicity, religion and caste attributes. Decentralization
under the 1999 Local Self-Governance Act was expected to increase the role of local
communities in health services oversight but this process had stalled due to lack of
locally elected authorities. However, the Interim Constitution provided additional
significant impetus for social inclusion by institutionalizing free access to essential health
care at sub-Health Post, health Post and Health Centre level. This prompted the
Government to strengthen its social inclusion monitoring capability and a number of
studies were commissioned to monitor progress.

Health Care Waste Management. The Environmental Impact Assessment of the Nepal
Health Sector Program had identified health care waste management as the critical
environmental issue in the health sector. A Health Care Waste Management (HCWM)
Assessment and a Strategic Framework and Action plan for improvement were developed
comprising: (i) the development of institutional framework for HCWM; (ii) the
preparation of various guidelines on HCWM and their dissemination; (iii) the conduct of
feasibility studies on appropriate technical solutions for HCWM in different settings; (iv)
training of staff; (v) the preparation of HCWM regulations; and, gradually bringing
health care facilities in line with appropriate HCWM practices. Some progress was made
with regard to individual activities, including the preparation of HCWM guidelines in
Nepali, selected awareness building activities, institutionalizing a requirement of new
facilities design allocating adequate space for HCW management, and the inclusion of
HCWM in recurrent health budget. However, overall and systemic progress of
implementing the action plan remained limited. This was partly because of the lack of a
clear institutional home and full time responsibility of senior MOHP staff for HCWM.
Safeguards compliance in the ISRs was consistently rated at Moderately Satisfactory



                                             12
however and the combination such ratings and the limited progress reported may indicate
insufficient attention given to safeguards compliance by the Bank team.

The practical lessons learned from the implementation of the NSHP I comprise: (i) the
Environmental Management Action Plan need to be realistic to the country context and
implementation capability; (ii) management and oversight needs to have clear
institutional home, dedicated staff and resources; (iii) supervision of the implementation
plan needs to be continuous and consistent, progress and issues to be reflected in
respective Aide-Memoires and ISRs.

2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The follow-up operation (Second HNP and HIV/AIDS Project) to support the
implementation of Nepal 2nd Health Sector Program (NHSP II) for the years 2010-2015
and comprising US$129.2 million equivalent of IDA financing has been prepared and
approved by the IDA Board of Directors. The project will be implemented under
enhanced SWAp arrangements with expected participation of DFID, AusAID, GAVI,
KfW, USAID, UNFPA, WHO, UNICEF and potentially other partners as signatories to
the Joint Financing Arrangement. This will enable the continuation and strengthening of
the health sector development dialogue and broaden the stakeholders in strengthening
relevant Government systems. It will sustain ongoing reforms and programs in short and
medium term.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design and implementation arrangements remain highly relevant. The
development objective of the follow-up operation is very similar to the original objective
of this Project, the global attention to achieving MDGs by 2015 is intensifying and the
Project's focus on cost-effective essential health care interventions is supportive to MDG
attainment; the supported policy reforms and institutional arrangements are line with the
World Bank's 2007 Interim Strategy Note, emphasizing implementation through
government systems and sector wide arrangements, genuine partnerships between public
and private sectors, improvement of public services, and emphasis on the inclusion
agenda.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The program largely achieved its stated PDO level objectives as described by key
performance indicators in the table below. Because progress was substantial by the time
of Additional Financing, the Project upgraded the targets for CPR from 45% for any
method to 48% for modern methods, the immunization target for measles from 85 to 88%
and for DPT3 from 85 to 90%, and also introduced specific targets for the lowest income
group. No representative survey was completed after the 2006 DHS to inform the actual
data on knowledge of HIV prevention among men but world-wide as well as regional


                                           13
data do suggest that knowledge among men would exceed the knowledge among women.
The DHS of 2010 (with expected data publicly available in 2011) will be the earliest
occasion to verify the achievement of this target.

The skilled attendance at birth was defined at baseline as attendance by a health worker,
but later changed to mean attendance by a skilled birth attendant (SBA) making it a more
stringent indicator. Applying the original definition throughout the Project period would
most likely have resulted in the target being met by Project completion.

Table 1. Project PDO indicators
Indicator                                            Baseline    Actuals    Actuals      Target 
                                                      (2001)     (2006)     (2009)       (2010) 
Increased contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) 
any method                                            35%         48%       51.7%            47% 
modern method                                                    44.2%  46.6%                48% 
   lowest quintile                                                          40.6%            35%
Skilled attendance at birth                           8%          19%        32.6%           35%
   lowest quintile                                    2%           5%         8.5%           10%
Percentage of children immunized against              71%       85/88% 89/90%              88/90%
measles/DPT3 
   lowest quintile                                              68/75% 85/83%              NA/80%
Proportion of women/men correctly identifying       38/51%      62/81% 88%/NA              75/85%
method of preventing HIV infection 
Sources: 2001, 2006 Demographic and Health Survey; 2008 Family Planning Project Midterm Review
Survey; 2010 Family Planning, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Situation in Rural Nepal Survey,
USAID

Annex 2 provides more detailed discussion on linkages between Project outputs (in
particular Output 1 on Essential Service Delivery) and PDO progress. NHSP I financing
significantly expanded health systems capacity to deliver immunizations, skilled birth
assistance, family planning services. NHSP I demand side interventions, such as Safe
Delivery Incentive Program, introduced during Project implementation, further
accelerated progress. Output 5 on health financing and resource allocation delivered its
key commitments in terms of prioritization of Essential Health Care Services and
increase in budget allocation to health sector. Although significant challenges still
remained in select output areas by the end of the Project, in particular in human resource
policy and management and logistics management output areas, overall targets under
NHSP I were met. It is likely though that these constraints will need to be tackled to
make further progress under NHSP II.

The Program outcomes have a contributory link towards improved higher level MDG
outcomes. Nepal has made considerable progress in reducing maternal and under-five
mortality rates. Between 2001 and 2009, Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) declined from
415 to 229 deaths per 100,000, an achievement for which Nepal was recognized in 2010
with the Millennium award for progress in MDG5; under five mortality from 91 to 50 per
1000 births; infant mortality rate from 64 to 41 per 1000 births; and total fertility rate
from 4.1 to 2.9. Analysis done at the Mid-term review concluded that that up to 82% of


                                                14
reduction of under-5 mortality rate could be attributed to the scaling up coverage of EPI
& measles campaign, vitamin A coverage and community based integrated management
of childhood disease programs that are part of the 11 primary health care programs within
the Essential Health Care Services package prioritized for Government Program support.
Similar linkages may exist for the reduction of maternal mortality where the prioritized
Program scaled up emergency obstetric care (rate of C-sections), skilled birth attendance,
antenatal care coverage and family planning. Nepal received the GAVI award for MDG 4
for its achievement in improving child health outcomes.

Although not part of original monitoring framework, there is evidence on and improved
equity of distribution of the outcomes among socio-economic groups from special
purpose studies commissioned under the Program. In spite of the progress noted there is
still a wide disparity in the health outcome indicators. For example, infant mortality in
rural areas is still 73% higher than that in urban areas, and infant mortality is almost
double in the Mountains compared to the Hills.

There are also important achievements in other Program areas, in particular health
financing. As a share of GDP, health sector spending doubled in five years from 0.8% in
2006 to 1.7% in 2010. Health sector absorptive capacity improved significantly.

3.3 Efficiency

Project support to the implementation of the Government health sector program under
SWAp arrangements does not lend itself to standard economic and financial analysis as
specific investments for IDA financing cannot be identified. The financial and economic
analysis rather focused on key public financial management parameters underpinning
sector expenditures and financial sustainability. As discussed in Annex 3, the key
original economic and financial assumptions held during Project implementation and the
main public finance targets were met. As a broad cost-effectiveness analytical measure, a
study commissioned by DFID during Project implementation, estimated that the
Government health Program saved one Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) at the cost
of US$144. This amount, being less than Nepal's Gross National Income per capita,
meets the WHO benchmark of cost-effective health intervention.

An interesting insight about efficiency of delivering ODA came from a District Health
Officer who testified that from a district level health system management perspective he
did not experience additional transaction costs related to the Project. Nepal managed to
absorb additional resources through government systems and deliver improved health
system performance outcomes by managing the EDP related transaction costs at the
central level and so allowing the lower levels of government to focus on service delivery.

However, there is still scope to improve equity of resource allocation across different
socio-economic regions in Nepal and improve efficiency of public procurement.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating




                                           15
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project development objective, design and implementation arrangements remained
highly relevant, the Project largely met or exceeded stated development outcomes, and
supported the Government health program delivering improved health outcomes in a
cost-effective way. The minor issue initially was the inability of disaggregated
performance assessment to assess the impact on disadvantaged groups, which was
corrected during Project implementation.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As discussed above and in Annex 2, the Project support contributed toward significant
progress in improving health MDG outcomes in Nepal, including improved equity across
socio-economic groups. This was achieved through prioritization of cost effective
essential health care services, phased roll-out first targeting the districts with lower
Human Development Index, addressing key barriers to access, including removing
financial barriers to access and providing demand and supply side incentives to increase
coverage of key health interventions.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Implementing the Project via government systems had significant impact on
strengthening key Government functions, in particular sector wide planning and financial
management that are expected to be sustained. As noted by one respondent during the
implementation completion review, there was both pressure and support to strengthen
institutional capacity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Interviews with key stakeholders suggested that the SWAp modality of channeling
development aid to the health sector and the joint Government-EDP commitment for
health sector performance may have helped to make health sector less vulnerable to the
political uncertainties and disruptions during Project implementation. During this period
the country experienced security problems due to insurgency, suspension of democratic
rule, abolition of monarchy and the birth of the republic, the Comprehensive Peace
Accord integrating Maoist insurgency into democratic governance, Interim Constitution,
etc. The pooling arrangement allowed the Government to frontload the pool with IDA
resources at the time when DFID, the other pooling partner, temporarily had slowed
down its disbursements during the politically fragile period, thus ensuring the
continuation of the sector expenditure program.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The key risk for development outcome is sustainability. Sustaining free health care
policy requires effective institutional and policy responses to important health system



                                           16
constraints. Financial sustainability risk is managed for short and medium term through a
follow-up IDA operation and significant commitments from other EDPs under the
continuing SWAp approach for the years 2010-2015. Mitigating longer term financial
sustainability risk requires further health financing reform. The Government needs to
address procurement and logistical constraints that are impacting the availability of free
drugs in health facilities as evidenced by Health Facility Surveys. Deployment and
retention of quality health workforce in remote areas at the time of increasing demand
will also be a challenge requiring comprehensive policy interventions in addition to
selected measures introduced to date.

The health sector enjoys broad support across parties in the National Assembly and the
Government has a clear health sector strategy and program for 2010-2015 that has been
jointly reviewed and endorsed by EDPs and civil society. The inclusion agenda is
prominent in the strategy. However, the observed difficulties in establishing an effective
Government since the latest election, and continuing constitutional uncertainty in relation
to the division of responsibilities under the federal system, pose some risks to
implementing policies around the agreed strategy, and agreeing on still unresolved long
term policies on health financing and public-private sector arrangements. Mitigation of
this risk is difficult, but the NHSP I experience of the benefits from joint commitment by
EDPs and Government to the strategy helped the sector to stay on track and make
consistent progress.

Governance risks to the development outcome are recognized and in short and medium
term addressed by the agreed Governance and Accountability Action Plan supplementing
the EDP supported NHSP II. Continued attention and support is needed to mainstream
actions and policies into Government systems for the long term.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed in this report, significant economic and sector work contributed to the
preparation of this operation, both technical and fiduciary; QERs were mobilized for both
the original operation as well as for the AF to gain additional inputs to the Project;
dialogue with EDPs was effective leading to harmonization and alignment of
commitments under the SWAp.

As discussed earlier in the document, there were three areas where preparation could
have been strengthened: (i) Project preparation could have benefited from a more
structured political economy analysis and risk discussion given its significant ambitions
in policy and institutional reform areas in a fragile country setting; (ii) M&E
arrangements for PDO emphasizing equity outcomes would require attention to
availability of disaggregated data; and (iii) some of the indicators could have been



                                            17
selected more carefully with regards to the availability of more recent baseline data as
well as end-of-project data.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision quality benefited from continuity of task team leaders (two over the life of
the Project with a six-month care-taker arrangement in-between); the eventual placement
of TTL to the field greatly enhancing the World Bank participation in JARs and
development partner dialogue in the SWAp context; mobilizing a task team with
appropriate skill mix, including international and national staff, technical and safeguard
expertise; and, from personal characteristics of TTLs facilitating relationships with EDPs
and the client.

The task team effectively used the SWAp flexibility for necessary adjustments in Project
implementation as a result of the changing political economy context, and addressed
early in Project implementation the need for additional M&E arrangements for
monitoring equity aspects of PDO.

Consultations on the budget between the government and Bank team (and other partners,
pooling or not) was very limited and treated as an "after-the-fact" matter, although the
Project financed a significant slice of the government's budget for the health sector. This
created the risk of the Bank (and other pooling partners) financing budget items that it
would not necessarily agree with. This risk was noticed ­ and experienced ­ but not
acted upon until the preparation of the next project in which budget consultation
protocols have been incorporated.

Fiduciary challenges were met with fast and adequate response to procurement issues of
alleged fraud, collusion, intimidation practices by engaging the client to undertake
mitigating measures. Financial management performance continued to improve during
Project implementation, supported by Bank oversight and monitoring of the
implementation of the FMIAP, in particular after the mid-term review.

Environmental safeguards supervision did not receive the attention required and the
ratings for safeguard compliance do not reflect the limited progress made.

ISRs were filed regularly and included candid and clear assessment of implementation
challenges, M&E status, and actions for the task team and management. The treatment of
safeguard compliance issues in the ISRs are an exception to this general conclusion.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            18
Despite the flexibility and responsiveness of the team, weaknesses in M&E design,
insufficient safeguard compliance supervision and the lack of substantial consultations on
the budget warrant a Moderately Satisfactory rating

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The key Government actions related to the Project were about keeping the broad
commitments for health sector funding that were agreed in the health strategy and
underpinning the overall health sector program. As discussed in the Annex 3, these
financial commitments were largely kept. The key stakeholders in the National Planning
Commission and the Ministry of Finance that were engaged in the annual review and
approval processes for ABWPs were supportive. The Project was audited by the
Government General Auditor's office and although for most of the Project
implementation period the office was managed by an acting Auditor General, the audit
reports were submitted in time and of good quality. During the period of political
uncertainty and insecurity, the health sector continued to enjoy broad based support from
all competing political forces thus suffering fewer disruptions than other sectors.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The relatively lower Implementing Agency performance rating is linked to fiduciary
issues, significant turnover of senior civil servants overseeing the Project, and
understaffing of the key unit in the Ministry of Health coordinating Project
implementation. On several occasions, the IPRs and FMRs were delayed; during the first
half of Project implementation the auditor reports had qualified opinions citing numerous
irregularities and an acceptable last audit report was still outstanding by the time this ICR
was finalized. Effective FMIAP implementation was delayed until after the Mid-term
review reflecting relatively low perceived political priority in the initial phases.
Managing procurement was a challenge, and although the procurement of goods
improved significantly by the end of Project, procurement of civil works continued to
face significant problems as recorded in the most recent post review conducted by IDA
staff. The Health Reform Unit in the MOHP, coordinating the SWAp processes, was
understaffed - essentially having one very dedicated professional carrying the workload
of coordinating the pooled funding part of the SWAp, preparing progress reports,
assisting the Secretary(ies) of Health in program matters, and organizing JARs and other
Government EDP meetings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                             19
Given that the Project supported the first SWAp in the sector, the natural steep learning
curve required for the implementing agency in fragile country settings, improvements in
several key Government functional areas (e.g. planning and monitoring), and successful
development outcomes, the overall satisfactory rating of Borrower Performance in these
circumstances is justified.

6. Lessons Learned

Ambitions and expectations for policy and institutional reform under an uncertain
political and security environment need to be more realistic. Decentralization policies,
restructuring of Government departments, changing the basic principles of budget
allocation are difficult reforms to implement in any country setting, and more so in a
fragile country. Political economy analyses would help to assess the realism of a
proposed reform agenda and mitigate risks. In the Project, the original policy and
institutional reform ambitions had to be scaled back during Project implementation.
More detailed discussion on the ambitions of policy and institutional reforms under the
NHSP I and the Project is provided in Annex 2 under respective Output areas.

Improving access to essential health care requires comprehensive and consistent
tackling of key health system constraints. Whereas there was progress in terms
addressing financial constraints for access to health services in the NHSP I, health human
resources deployment and retention, and strengthening logistical systems remain
challenges that need to be more comprehensively tackled under NHSP II.

Any project with equity related development objective needs to include clear monitoring
and evaluation arrangements for disaggregated data. Although pilots were launched
during the Project, it is probably unrealistic to expect administrative health information
management systems to provide this information as part of routine reporting.
Mainstreaming select survey instruments into the overall health sector monitoring
arrangements and/or obtaining necessary information of other cross-sectoral household
surveys (e.g. socio-economic household survey) need to be considered. This was
recognized during Project implementation, adjustments were made in results framework,
and the lessons applied in the design of the follow-up operation.

Malnutrition did not get the level of attention in NSHP I it warranted. During 1995-
2002, Nepal had one of the highest rates of stunting in children under five in the world.
Progress in tackling the issue has been slow. There is mounting evidence that nutrition is
an important determinant for health but also for other developmental outcomes, including
educational attainment and future earnings in life. One should note however that this a
retrospective lesson learned as the Project followed the NHSP I that at the inception had
been jointly reviewed and endorsed by the EDPs; the lack of progress was recognized
during the period of Project implementation; and, that recognition of the issue is
facilitated by resurgence of nutrition in the global development agenda. The NSHP II has
duly recognized this and has allocated significantly more resources to address this
concern to be supported by the follow-up operation.




                                           20
Cross-sectoral health determinants (e.g. water and sanitation) also did not get
sufficient attention in the NHSP I as recognized by several policy makers during ICR
mission interviews. Institutional arrangements and appropriate support modalities need
to be identified to support the health sector's advocacy role and convening power in these
areas that have significant health impact.

Management of technical assistance in parallel to pooled funding support to
Government health program was pragmatic and an effective design choice. Given the
usual reluctance and slowness of governments in allocating adequate resources, recruiting
technical assistance (in particular international) under credits and grants administered by
them and under their own budgets, the implementation arrangement where TA was
funded directly by DFID (one of the pooling partners) resulted in effective technical
support to the program and should be considered in similar situations. To ensure
effective coordination and alignment, institutional arrangements need to be agreed upon
between the Government and EDPs on how to steer such a technical assistance facility.

SWAp partnership arrangements were quite informal during the implementation of the
Project. The JARs were held as planned semi-annually but the institutional arrangements
for organizing, preparation of content, format and end products of these reviews were not
formalized. Whereas this may have provided needed flexibility for the learning curve to
happen and ongoing adjustments to be made, for more mature SWAp arrangements the
parties may consider agreeing more clearly on what kind of inputs and outputs would be
prepared for JARs to ensure continuous and consistent monitoring of NSHP II
implementation and performance as well as continuous feedback from JARs to AWPBs.
JARs should be more directly integrated with the Government's own review processes.
Language barriers have been cited as impediment but this could be overcome through
participation of EDP national staff, and selected incremental events being organized for
direct international staff participation. Relationships among pooling partners were on
informal basis and this worked out well in the context of small number of partners (2-3)
and good personal relationships. With the increased number of signatories to the JFA for
NHSP II, participating EDPs are making progress in defining more clearly the roles and
working arrangements within the group and establishing transparent communication
channels to the Government (for clarity, efficiency, consistency) and agreeing on
technical lead partners in particular sector policy or program areas to distribute workload
more evenly.

A field based Task Team Leader (TTL) for SWAp operations is an important factor
for successful Project implementation. Given the needs for continued dialogue with
Government and EDPs, the TTL placement in the field office is an important determinant
for successful implementation of such projects. This was recognized by multiple
development partners and client representatives during the ICR review mission and may
have reflected their more recent experience with the preparation of the NHSP II, as the
NHSP I was implemented until 2009 without a resident TTL. Presence of a strong
national public health specialist in the Nepal World Bank office and effective
coordination/cooperation with the Washington and New Delhi based TTLs may have
helped to compensate for remote TTL-ship in the first half of the Project implementation.



                                            21
Integrating procurement planning with AWPB processes would save time and
ensure clearer linkages. Given the time required for processing international bidding
processes and to improve effectiveness and efficiency of procurement, multi-year
programming and contracts with multiple delivery dates should be considered. This
would require also MOF approval for multi-year budgeting.

Procurement and financial management capacity needs further and continuous
strengthening. The procurement function is broader than processing competitive
bidding for goods and works and selection of consultants. It needs to include capacity in
needs forecasting, technical expertise in the elaboration of technical specifications,
monitoring the quality of deliverables, and market analysis. Decentralized procurement
arrangements under the Project proved to be a challenge and the Government is
considering streamlining the bidding processes and at the same time remaining
responsive to local needs preferences. Financial management capacity also needs to be
adequately strengthened in light of severe control weaknesses in the system.

More systematic strengthening of governance arrangements as adopted at the time of
processing the Additional Financing and for the follow-up operation (Governance and
Accountability Action Plans) are particularly important for projects that are implemented
through Government systems, thus having a potential for broader impact than a particular
project implementation. This ICR discusses multiple dimensions of governance issues in
the context of health sector strategy and planning, decentralization, hospital autonomy,
financial management and procurement. Having brought these different elements
together into one GAAP for NHSP II will help to ensure comprehensive and consistent
approach to governance arrangements across health sector policies, institutional
development and project implementation.

Sustainability. By the end of the Project, the EDP contribution to Government health
sector budget was 48%. Although down from the peak of 52%, it still signals significant
reliance on ODA for financing health sector expenditures. Free health care policies as
well as increasing burden of non-communicable diseases and growth of hospital sector
continue to increase demands for public resources. Developing and agreeing on policy
and institutional options for a more sustainable path for mobilizing financial resources to
meet population needs urgent attention.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies:

The comments of the implementing agency (MoHP) on this ICRR have been
incorporated in the text.

(b) Co-financiers and (c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private
sector/civil society):




                                            22
No comments were received from co-financiers or other stakeholders.




                                         23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2. Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                                millions)
STRENGTHENED SERVICE
                                             434.30                  659                152%
DELIVERY
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
& MANAGEMENT                                  63.98                  164                256%
DEVELOPMENT

Total Project Costs and
                                             498.28                  823*               165%
Financing Required
* updated 2008 estimate for six years


Table 3. Project and Program Financing by Source
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                   Pooling        285.61      485.61      170%
 UK: British Department for
                                            Pooling          36.75          43.75           119%
International Development (DFID)
Australia: Australian Agency for
                                            Pooling            0             5.30           N/A
International Development
 International Development
                                            Pooling          10.00          10.00           100%
Association (IDA)
 IDA GRANT FOR POOREST
                                            Pooling          40.00          90.00           225%
COUNTRY
 FOREIGN SOURCES
                                            Parallel        125.92          188.34          150%
(UNIDENTIFIED)3




3
 The main non-pooled foreign financiers of the sector were USAID, the Global Fund to fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, KfW, GTZ, the UN Agencies, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and
Immunization, and JICA



                                                 24
 Annex 2. Outputs by NHSP I Component

 Table 4. Program (NHSP I) Intermediate Outputs
                                  Original Indicator        Revised Indicator
Output                                          Target/                   Target/         Comments
                                  Baseline                  Baseline
                                                Actual                    Actual
Essential Health Care                                                                     See text in this section, too many
Services                                                                                  variables to be included in the table
Decentralization
No of District Hospitals Under    1            10/10        10           17/29
Autonomous Boards
No of SHPs under                  1,114        3,129/                                     Dropped at mid-term
decentralized management                       1,433
form                                           (100%)
MOHP provides formula based       0            28                                         Dropped - decentralization efforts stalled
block grants to districts                                                                 due to lack of elected local authority
Public Private Partnerships
No of District Hospitals under    1            5/5
PPP Management
At least two new PPP                                        0            2/2              Uterine prolapsed surgeries performed
modalities in EHCS areas                                                                  by private sector under public contract
supported by MOHP                                                                         Contracts in 5 districts with non-state
                                                                                          hospitals to provide emergency obstetric
                                                                                          care
NHSP-II to include increased                                             achieved         Introduced at the time of additional
and formalized collaboration                                                              financing.
Sector Management
Capacity Assessment and           No           Assessment                                 Mid-term review concluded that initial
follow-up actions                 assessment   and                                        policy benchmarks for monitoring were
                                               Manageme                                   not useful for monitoring actual sector
                                               nt actions                                 management improvement. Dropped at
                                               taken                                      mid-term
Prepare NHSP-II                                             No           NHSP II          Introduced at the time of additional
                                                                         prepared/yes     financing
Health Financing and
Resource Allocation
% of MOH budget allocated to      50           70/75
EHCS
% of MOH recurrent budget         25           35/55
allocated to non-salary costs
Physical Assets and
Procurement Management
No essential drug stock outs in   N/A          100%                      Less than        Target was revised at the time of
public health facilities for                                             25%/20%          additional financing, further defined
more than 1 month in a year
Share of construction budget                                No           20%/20%          Introduced as part of enhanced
designated for maintenance                                  designated                    monitoring framework at the time of
                                                            budget                        additional financing
Human Resource Policy and
Management
% of public health facilities     Not                       BOEC 56      BOEC in 75       Enhancement at the time of additional
with full complement of staff     available                 districts    districts and    financing, focus on BOEC/COEC
                                                            and COEC     COEC in 39
                                                            in 33        districts with
                                                            districts    90% skill
                                                            with 84%     mix
                                                            skill mix
Integrated Management
Information Systems
Increased use of survey data                                             Analysis         Introduced as part of enhanced
for evidence based policies                                              available on     monitoring framework at the time of
                                                                         MOPH web         additional financing
                                                                         site
Strengthened HMIS                                                        Pilots           Introduced as part of enhanced
                                                                         completed        monitoring framework at the time of
                                                                         and              additional financing
                                                                         evaluated



                                                                25
Within the SWAp context the Project outputs need to be reviewed alongside the outputs
of the First Nepal Health Sector Program (NHSP I). The Project design and components
followed the design and structure of the health sector plan. It also needs to be noted that
for the sake of feasibility and simplicity, the Project outputs and indicators monitored
through ISRs constituted a subset of the NHSP I indicators. As discussed in Section 2.3,
the main outputs of the NHSP I remained the same; the intermediate results framework
was adjusted during Project implementation to reflect changing policy context and
enhancements resulting from mid-term review and enhancement at the time of processing
of AF. The table above summarizes the key outputs as per original program document
and updates after the mid-term review and AF. Below is the summary of achievements
and challenges under the eight key program outputs.

Essential Service Delivery: Increased Access to and Utilization of EHCS (Output 1).
As discussed elsewhere in this report, the Program supported key components of EHCS
package that have contributed to significant improvement of health outcomes. These
services include Family Planning, Extended Program of Immunization, Community
Based Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (CB-IMCI), Vitamin A
supplementation, the introduction of Zinc supplementation for the treatment of diarrhea,
together with ORS, the continuous improvement in the availability of iodized salt (90%
of households), and antenatal and delivery care. During Project implementation there
was rapid expansion of coverage of access. Progress was further accelerated by free
health care policy and specific demand side incentives (safe delivery incentive program)
for selected services mid-way through Project implementation. At the time of processing
additional financing, selected additional services were added, including action to address
the common problem of uterine prolapse.

Immunization services increased to be available in 100% of public health facilities, up
from 60%. Immunization coverage met or exceeded targets (see Section 3.2). Similarly,
availability of family planning, antenatal and post natal care increased from 50% to 100%
of public health facilities. Attendance of births by skilled provider surpassed the target
(see Section 3.2). Basic Emergency Obstetric Care availability expanded to all districts
and Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric Care availability to 48 districts with 5 using
private sector. Almost 1,000 skilled birth attendants were trained during the program.
The Safe Delivery Incentive Program (launched in 2005) and making delivery care
universally free (2009) accelerated the growth of institutional deliveries. Safe abortion
services are available in 240 sites in all districts. Uterine prolapse surgeries surged from
1,000 by 2007 to more than 14,000 in 2010 with significant private sector involvement.
CB-IMCI expanded from 6 to all districts and special neonatal health programs launched
and evaluated in 10 districts. The ARI4 symptoms among children under 5 dropped as
the use of ARI treatment by health care facilities surged from 36% in 2006 to 54% in
2009.




4
    ARI ­ acute respiratory infection


                                            26
Progress was made in addressing tuberculosis through DOTS. Although the case
detection rates of 71% and treatment success rates of 88% among estimated 20,000 new
infectious cases a year fall a bit short of national targets (80% and 90% respectively),
they are internationally still very respectable outcomes.

HIV/AIDS remained a concentrated epidemic with improvement of knowledge (see
Section 3.2) and expansion of ARV5 treatment, voluntary counseling and testing centers
and facilities implementing PMTCT. 6 The Government financing target (15% of
Government funds) was not met (estimated actual 10%) but significant donor support to
HIV/AIDS was provided outside Government channels funded by ODA.

The PDO put particular focus on vulnerable and disadvantaged population segments, i.e.
equitable distribution of access and utilization of essential health services. However,
initially the program lacked targets or indicators to monitor progress towards improved
access by the poor and marginalized populations. After the mid-term review and as a
result of introduction of free essential health care policies7 by the Government of Nepal,
several monitoring instruments were launched, enabling segregation of the key
performance indicators by income quintile, ethnic group, religion and caste. Progress
was made in reducing inequalities in several indicators, including immunization coverage,
contraceptive use (except among Muslim population). In some areas (e.g. antenatal care),
disparities have initially widened as the increases among wealthier population segments
outpaced (also significant) increases among the poorest, most likely reflecting other
barriers to access (e.g. education of women).

Decentralization (Output 2).           The expected outputs were decentralization of
management of sub-health posts to Community Health Facility Committees and increase
of hospital autonomy. For the management decentralization of sub-health posts the
expected target was 3,129 by the end of the program, in reality 1,433 were transferred
(adding about 300 compared to baseline). The key constraint was the absence of elected
local authority and changing political context. Also, decentralization also faced
resistance from professional health staff who were concerned of losing professional
career development options when transferred from the MOHP to the Ministry of Local
Development. At mid-term review, this output target was dropped. In hospital autonomy,
a total of 29 hospitals were granted partial autonomy compared to the original target of
10, although the extent of autonomy varies and regulations about accountabilities and
decision rights about human resources, financing and user fees, residual claimant, etc.
need further strengthening. By the end of the Project, the districts' share of Government
health budget increased from 13% to 34%, and with the addition of further central funds
disbursed to districts (national programs), the total was 58% for 2009/10 FY.




5
  ARV- anti retroviral
6
  PMTCT ­ prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV
7
  Free services comprise all services provided by sub-health posts and health posts, 40 essential drugs, all
institutional deliveries, uterine prolapsed surgery


                                                     27
Private Public Partnerships (Output 3). The NHSP I called for recognition of the
important role of private and NGO sectors play in service delivery, defining appropriate
roles for each, and for working in partnership where appropriate. Specifically, the NHSP
I monitored contracting out public hospital management to private sector in at least five
hospitals. This PPP model was implemented in five hospitals. The mid-term review
suggested moving away from a narrowly defined indicator of a complex hospital PPP
arrangement and rather promoting dialogue and monitoring progress along a broader
concept of appropriate private sector involvement. Indeed, several developments can be
reported, including making abortion services legally available in both public and licensed
private facilities (85% of these services being provided by private sector), entering into
partnership with the private sector for performing significant number of uterine prolapse
surgeries, contracting the private sector to provide logistical services for drugs
distribution, the provision of family planning services by NGOs (40% in private sector),
the collaboration with private medical schools for free training of Government appointed
students (20% of places), and making the Safe Delivery Incentive Program eligible also
for deliveries in private facilities.

Sector management (Output 4). Original outputs envisaged moving towards unified
sector-wide planning, programming, budgeting, financing, and performance management
to support service delivery, supported by EDPs and involving NGOs and the private
sector. Also envisaged was the restructuring of MOHP as appropriate to be conducive
and supportive to the vision. As discussed in Section 2.2 and Annex 5, the Government
made significant progress in sector wide arrangements. A Decentralization Forum was
established in 2007 to guide policy making and decentralization activities. However, less
progress was made in streamlining and restructuring of the MOH. The original
milestones of Policy Reforms included a significant policy and institutional agenda to
support decentralization, including removing vertical management structures, support to
district based planning, budgeting, quality assurance, and performance management
systems. Except decentralized budgets, progress in actual institutional strengthening of
decentralized management of health services was limited. This was also linked to
changing overall policy context after the Comprehensive Peace Accord and power
sharing in a broad coalition government.

The enhanced monitoring framework under AF also included the preparation and
approval of the follow up 2nd Nepal Health Sector Program that was duly completed and
jointly appraised by the Government, civil society and EDPs.

Health financing and resource allocation (Output 5). The Project aimed at increasing
public spending on health, prioritization of Essential Health Care Services, developing
and implementing equitable resource allocation formula, better execution of budget, and
broadening the sources of financing by mobilizing local authorities, regulating user fees,
and piloting community insurance and revolving drug fund schemes. During Project
implementation, significant policy decisions were taken by the Government to abolish
user fees for a basic essential health care package thus moving the discussion about
alternative financing sources for hospital based and specialist care (that was out of scope
of the current Project). There was significant progress in other areas in the output.



                                            28
Health expenditure as proportion of Government budget increased from 5.9% to 6.24%
between 2004/5 and 2009/10 fiscal years (with a peak of 7.2% in 2007/8 budget).
Although shy of the target 7%, one needs to recognize that this took place in the context
of rapidly increasing overall budget. As a share of GDP, Government expenditures for
health increased from 0.8% to 1.7% of GDP.

Expenditure prioritization towards essential health care exceeded its original target of
70% (latest 75% in 2009/10 FY). One needs to note, however, that the calculation of the
percentage reflects an agreed formula between the EDPs and MOH and it also includes
select hospital based services, including institutional deliveries and emergency obstetric
care. This explains how this high proportion can be maintained at the time when MOF
reports significant increases of Government expenditures on hospitals and declining share
to MOF definition of essential health care (primary health care provided by health posts
and sub-health posts). MOF data indicate that spending on "Beyond essential health care
services" rose 10-times in nominal terms after 2004, mainly reflecting additions of two
new state hospitals/facilities each year. Spending on hospitals increased from an average
of 13% of total health expenditure in the Tenth Plan to 31% in 2010 and it is expected to
rise further as pressure grows for more public services in urban areas. The NHSP I
prioritization of basic health care services has helped to protect the essential services but
it can be reasonably expected that pressure for hospital spending will increase in the
future, adding another argument to the need of further health financing reform providing
adequate funding for essential health care and public health goods and providing
adequate catastrophic health expenditure risk protection for population needing to access
hospital level care.

The absorptive capacity of the health sector as reflected in the execution of health budget
improved from 69% in 2004/5 to 85% in 2008/9 in the context of significantly increased
budget. Financial management review prompted streamlining of Government health
budget categories from 50 to 35, thus simplifying the budgeting and management and
improving flexibility. However, these improvements mask an un-balanced disbursement
profile within each fiscal year during which only limited resources are available for
districts during the first 6 months of the fiscal year and the bulk of disbursements take
place in the last 2 quarters. Several coping strategies were employed, including district
treasuries releasing 1/6 of previous year's releases when budget approval processing was
late, prioritizing expenditures (essential health services, salaries), and requesting Village
Development Committees to fill the gaps when stock-outs of essential drugs occur.

The Program also achieved increased capital spending in health (actual 26% from
baseline of 13% against the target of 30%) and maintaining the non-salary component of
Government health expenditure at or higher than 39% (latest actual 55% in 2008/9).

However, only limited progress was made towards more equitable resource allocation.
Budgeting and programming is still facility based favoring Kathmandu Valley. In per
capita terms, the central region residents receive double of what those in the far west get,
and the people in the Hills get 30-40% more than what Mountain residents receive. But



                                             29
differences are declining, perhaps partly helped by budget transfers to public health
facilities to compensate for free health care redressing these inequities somewhat as the
transfers are based on actual care provided to the eligible poor. Use of public sector
health services is reported by 60% of the poorest vs 36% of the richest.

Physical assets, logistics and procurement management (Output 6). Under the joint
financing arrangements public procurement in the health sector was conducted according
to the Procurement Law (latest version from 2007) that reflects international standards,
except for procurement above International Competitive Bidding threshold when the
World Bank guidelines applied. As discussed in the Section 2.5, the Program
experienced various procurement issues, in particular related to decentralized
procurement of drugs and supplies, as well as national level procurement of equipment
and civil works. Risks of collusion and conflict of interest were raised during Project
implementation. Several health system issues impacted the procurement performance ­
late budget approvals delayed the start of procurement processes, low capacity in
implementing agencies and programs delayed submissions of cost estimates and technical
specifications, new eligibility criterion of WHO Good Manufacturing Practice certificate
created temporary difficulties until sufficient number of national producers could obtain
it. It took time to address these constraints, but overall continued improvement in the
management of procurement of goods was observed during Project implementation,
however procurement of works (conducted by Ministry of Planning and Construction)
continued to experience problems.

Logistics for supplying drugs to service providers remained a challenge during Project
implementation, exacerbated by the surge of demand introduced by free health care
policies that made 40 essential drugs free at the point of service delivery. Although
several initiatives were undertaken to reform the traditional facility based and geographic
drug distribution formula, the impact of some of them (e.g. "pull" system responding to
actual demands from health care providers within districts was limited as the central level
forecasting capability and distribution methods were not compatible with this. Further
improvements of centralized procurement better responding to local demands are ongoing.
The Program output indicator of 100% of public health care facilities not experiencing
stock-outs of essential drugs during a year was not met (in fact 75% of facilities
experienced stock-outs), the key factor for it is likely to be the free health care policy that
put significant additional strain on the system.

During Project implementation a health facilities inventory and maintenance plan was
developed and at the time of processing additional financing an agreed target was set that
20% of construction budget be allocated for maintenance of existing stock of buildings to
ensure adequate financing of the plan.

This Output also addressed the health care waste management that is discussed in the
Section 2.5 of this report.

Human resource policy and management (Output 7). This component intended to
address the imbalance of the size of health workforce, its distribution and expected



                                             30
workload. It aimed at undertaking several analyses and support upgrading the traditional
fragmented human resource related management functions ­ personnel administration,
training and human resource management information system into more integrated
human resource development and management function.

Retention and availability of skilled health personnel are major issues at state health
institutions. Over 25% of the sanctioned posts at public institutions remained vacant and
similarly, on an average, 12% of nursing and paramedic posts remained unfilled.
Absenteeism is another issue at public health institutions. According to a recent survey,8
64-84% of posted doctors, 68-81% of nurses and 81-92% of paramedics were available at
their posts. During the Program implementation, the Government undertook several
measures to improve the situation, including compulsory 2-year service for new medical
and dental graduates receiving Government scholarships, as a result of which 305 of them
were serving outside the Kathmandu valley at the time of project completion; about 1,000
additional maternal and child health workers were trained in an 18-month course; local
authorities are allowed to contract additional staff to fill vacancies. However, this has not
been sufficient to bring about significant improvement in human resource distribution
compared to 2006 situation and more comprehensive measures are needed to address the
income, professional and family benefits related expectations of health staff.

At the time of processing additional financing, enhanced monitoring framework
emphasized the improvement in availability of adequate staff mix in health facilities
providing BOEC/COEC which was achieved to a large extent by the deployment by the
Department of Health Services of contract staff.

Further strengthening is needed in the human resource management function at the
Ministry of Health, including integration of the key human resource management
functions and completing the HR management information system that in 2008 had less
than 30% staff included and lacked linkages between different HR functions. In addition,
consideration should be given to an appropriate balance of health human resource
management functions between the central MOHP and decentralized authorities. Local
health authorities with human resource management decision rights could be more
effective in filling vacancies in remote areas. Experience from a field visit to Dhading
District revealed that the district hospital was able to fill 6 vacancies on contract basis
with less cost compared to Government civil service deployment. Local recruitment was
the key factor for this success. It needs to be noted that decentralized human resource
management would put different demands to the Government human resource
management function, in particular in the area of quality assurance.

Integrated management information systems (Output 8). The Nepal HMIS provides
reasonably accurate data for most EHCS programs that have been validated by household
survey instruments. During the program implementation, the HMIS data were



8
    RTI International ­ December 2009.




                                             31
supplemented by a range of regular household and facility surveys, complementing the
administrative information with insights about equity of utilization of services and
population's perception about quality. During Project implementation, the Government
started pilots in three districts for disaggregating health services data by age, gender,
caste, ethnicity and religious minorities. The pilots were completed and evaluated but the
initiative could not be scaled up to other districts due to budgetary constraints. The
enhanced monitoring framework at the time of processing AF included increased use of
survey data in evidence based policy making as well as making the analysis results
widely available. The challenge remaining from the implementation of NHSP I is in the
use of information generated by HMIS, in particular at district level in the context of
decentralization.

Although Nepal's HMIS performed well compared to the countries of similar socio-
economic circumstances, both the Government and EDPs indicated that they had had
even higher expectations for the NHSP I support, in particular in the areas of integration
of different data and information streams (e.g. health outcomes, health system
performance, resource use) and more of disaggregated data. But these expectations may
have been simply unrealistic for the given time frame and fragile country circumstances.

IDA Core Indicators. Per IDA institutional policies, the Project began reporting on
institutional core indicators mandatory to all IDA financed projects in the last year of
Project implementation. The status of these indicators is recorded in the table below.
The unilateral way in which IDA Core Indicators and targets were introduced may make
the data for these indicators less reliable than for others that were part of the original
Results Framework design. Not being integrated in the government's M&E system in
use for the project, they are most likely the best estimates by the World Bank and client
staff. This is reflected in lack of targets, inconsistent treatment of cumulative and annual
performance numbers.

Table 5. Performance along IDA core indicators
Indicator                              Baseline       Target (2010)            Actual (latest)
Direct project beneficiaries          28 million      28 million               28 million
Health staff trained                      0           Annual targets           12,143 (cumul)
Health facilities built, renovated,       0           3,000                    1,843 (2009
equipped                                                                       only)
Children immunized                        0           450,000 (cumulative)     583,819 (2010
                                                                               only)
Pregnant women receiving                  0           1,400,000 (cumulative)   746,067(2010
antenatal visits                                                               only)
Children receiving vitamin A              0           110,000 (cumulative)     2,624,101 (2010
                                                                               only)




                                              32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Government expenditure: One of the pillars of the financial and economic analysis of
the Project was assessing the government's commitment to the sector through its
budgetary allocation. It was assumed that the budgetary allocation to MOHP will increase
to 7% of total budget during the life of the Project. In the years of implementation of the
Project, the share of health budget has increased steadily reaching a peak in 2007/08
(Table 6). The initial assumption that the share will reach 7%is more or less confirmed.
The share of government expenditure has also increased as a percentage of GDP.

Table 6. Share of health in national budget (NRS million), health expenditure in GDP (%)
                                     Budget                             Expenditure  
Fiscal year       National           Health             Share (%)        % of GDP 
2004/05           111690             6553               5.87            0.84 
2005/06           126885             7555               5.95            0.93 
2006/07           143912             9230               6.41            1.07 
2007/08           168996             12099              7.16            1.25 
2008/09           236016             14946              6.33            1.45 
2009/10           285930             17840              6.24            1.68 (budget) 
Source: MOHP, 2010. Budget analysis FY 2010/11; WB PER, 2010 (draft) 


Expenditure prioritization: The government commitment was also assessed based on
its ability to prioritize expenditures such that there would be major shift away from
secondary and tertiary care towards EHCS. It was envisaged that budgetary spending on
EHCS will increase from 56% to 70% by the end of the Project. By 2008/09 the share of
EHCS has reached more than 74% (Table 7). Though expansion of the EHCS package
that has occurred at one point may partly be responsible for such increase in the share,
there is a clear upward trend in the share during the years.

Table 7. Share of EHCS from total budgetary expenditure (NRP million)
                        Budgetary expenditure                 
Fiscal year       Total               EHCS                  Share 
2004/05           4598                2932                  63.77 
2005/06           5723                3666                  64.06 
2006/07           7441                4967                  66.75 
2007/08           9844                6742                  68.49 
2008/09           12731               9505                  74.66 
Source:  MOPH, 2010. Budget Analysis FY 2010/11. 

Composition of expenditure: The composition of expenditure is analyzed in terms of
three broad categories: i) EHCS versus beyond- EHCS expenditures; ii) capital versus
recurrent expenditures; and iii) salary versus non-salary recurrent expenditure.




                                                      33
It was envisaged that the expenditure will gradually shift towards EHCS. It was
projected to increase from 56% of total MOHP expenditure in 2004/05 to 69% in 2008/09.
As shown in Table 7, this projection was surpassed and the EHCS account to more than
74% of expenditure.

Under the Program the share of capital expenditure was expected to increase to reach
30% of the total budget. It was to remain at this level throughout the Program years. As
shown in Table 8, the share of budget for capital expenditure has been fluctuating
significantly and it has never exceeded 26%.

Table 8. Capital and recurrent share of health budget (%)
Fiscal year                    Recurrent     Capital 
2006/07                          84.7         15.3 
2007/08                          75.8         24.2 
2008/09                          80.3         19.7 
2009/10                          79.2         20.8 
2010/11                          74.1         25.9 
Source:  MOPH  Budget Analysis for respective years 

The share of non-salary recurrent expenditure was projected to be maintained on at 39 %
during the Project. The assumption was attained as the share of non-salary recurrent
expenditure has steadily increased reaching 57% before coming down to 55% (Table 9).

Table 9. Share of non-salary recurrent expenditure in health (NRS million, %)
Fiscal year           Total           Nonsalary          Share 
                                      recurrent 
2004/05               4598              2344              51% 
2005/06               5723              2780              49% 
2006/07               7441              4241              57% 
2007/08               9844              5137              52% 
2008/09              12731              7051              55% 
Source: MOPH 2010.  Budget Analysis FY 2010/11

Absorptive capacity. The Program aimed to resolve the constraints that led to under-
spending of the allocated budget. During Program implementation the absorptive
capacity of the MOHP improved significantly. As shown in Table 10, the ministry has
increased the spending to 85% of allocated budget.

Table 10. Expenditure of allocated health budget (NRS million)
Fiscal year        Budget            Expenditure         Execution 
2004/05             6553                4598               69% 
2005/06             7555                5723               72% 
2006/07             9230                7441               81% 
2007/08            12099                9844               80% 


                                                    34
2008/09           14946              12731              85% 
Source: MOPH 2010.  Budget Analysis FY 2010/11

However, the aggregate improvements mask significant fluctuations within each fiscal
year. A significant proportion of expenditures occurs during the last trimester (Table 11).
While the share of spending in the first trimester has decreased, that of the third trimester
has increased steadily. Such increase in third trimester spending may mean higher
pressure to spend that could compromise the quality of spending and this has resulted in
service delivery being forced to employ several copying strategies in the first trimester.

Table 11. Share of actual health sector expenditure by trimester
                               Share of spending                        
Fiscal year       I Trimester        II Trimester      III Trimester     TOTAL 
2004/05              18.57               18.54              32.14        69.25 
2005/06              16.54               17.67              37.92        72.13 
2006/07              10.85               33.16              36.61        80.62 
2007/08              10.83               21.79              47.62        80.24 
2008/09              13.01               22.51              49.67        85.19 
Source: MOPH 2010.  Budget Analysis FY 2010/11

The Medium Term Expenditure Framework has served as a tool for prioritizing
government expenditures in general. The Program has effectively used the MTEF as a
tool to prioritize certain expenditures, especially those related to EHCS. Though initially
the MTEF was no more than a general budget projection, it eventually came to provide a
realistic outlook of government commitment to health. It categorizes the budget
projection in to three expenditure priorities areas where priority I is the least affected by
any subsequent revision of the budget. MOHP has ensured that EHCS budget is
categorized under the priority category. The current MTEF exercise however is maturing
by the year. As the MTEF exercise matures, budget preparation at MOHP would benefit
from it.

Efficiency and cost-effectiveness of Public Spending. While recognizing the
significant progress made towards improved health system performance and outcomes
during Project implementation, questions have been raised about the efficiency of
significantly increased public spending. As discussed above in the report, the NHSP I
supported by the Project increased the allocation towards EHCS that included some of
the public health practice's best buys. A study commissioned by DFID concluded that
the Nepal public health spending saved one Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) at the
cost of US$144 that is lower than the WHO's benchmark of cost-effective interventions
defined as cost per DALY saved less than per capita income (latest around US$400).
However, as discussed elsewhere in this report, there appear to be further opportunities
for efficiency and cost-effectiveness improvement in the areas of public procurement and
improving equitable resource allocation.




                                                 35
Fiscal sustainability. The Project estimated that the expanded MOHP Program will be
sustainable under the assumption that fiscal deficit will be maintained under 5% of GDP
and domestic borrowing at 2% of GDP. These predictions are in fact agreements
between the government and the IMF. Furthermore the Project was assessed fiscally
sustainable based on the prediction that: (i) real GDP will grow at around 5.5% in
2005/06 and beyond; and ii) tax revenue will grow steadily to 14% of GDP by 2007/08.
As shown below, these predictions were not realized (Table 12). A number of political
developments may explain such deviation from the initial predications.

Table 12. Select Nepal macro-economic indicators
                                    As a percentage of GDP              
Fiscal year     Real GDP            Tax revenue     Fiscal deficit    Domestic 
                                                                      borrowing 
2004/05         3.50                9.20              5.50            1.50 
2005/06         3.40                8.80              5.90            1.80 
2006/07         3.30                9.80              6.30            2.50 
2007/08         5.30                10.40             6.60            2.50 
2008/09         4.70                12.20             7.40            2.60 
Source: Ministry of Finance, 2009. Economic Survey, FY 2008/09

Initially, the NHSP I approach towards financial sustainability aimed at reducing
dependence on external assistance by (i) increasing the Government contribution; (ii)
improving resource mobilization through cost-sharing; and (iii) improving allocative
efficiency of sector expenditures. Whereas progress was made along (i) and (iii), the (ii)
assumption changed dramatically during the Program implementation with the
Government commitment to free health care and abolition of user fees for essential health
services. This will imply additional Government outlays for free essential drugs,
compensation to health care providers serving identified poor, additional human resource,
medical equipment and infrastructure inputs. The Government has estimated the
financing needs for financing of US$1,527 over the years 2011-2015 under NHSP II. In
the short term, the Government will be able to meet the estimated need if it secured an
amount of US$1,037 million of ODA under a follow up SWAp operation. However, this
would arrest the decrease of ODA as proportion of the MOHP budget from 51% in 2007
to 48% in 2010, and instead might increase the proportion to 68% over the period of
2011-2015. This will put pressure on the Government and EDPs to start in earnest
discussions on medium and long term health financing strategy.




                                                36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

List of Task Team members

                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Jagmohan S. Kang            Consultant                        SASHD
Tirtha Rana                 Senior PHN Specialist             SASHD
Kiran R. Baral              Senior Procurement Officer        SARPS
Naima A Hasci               Senior Social Scientist           ECSS4
                            Consultant, Institutional
Eliezer Orbach                                                SASHD
                            Development
Laura M. Kiang              Senior Operations Officer         SASHD
Kirtan Chandra Sahoo        Environment Specialist            SASES
Julie Mclaughlin            Senior Public Health Specialist   AFTH1
 Sundararajan Srinivasa
                            Senior PHN Specialist             SASHD
Gopalan
                            Senior Financial Management
Bigyan B. Pradhan                                             SARFM
                            Specialist
G.N.V. Ramana               Senior Public Health Specialist   SASHD
Elfreda Vincent             Program Assistant                 SASHD
Sushila Rai                 Program Assistant                 SASHD

Supervision/ICR
Roshan Darshan
                            Senior Economist                  SASEP
Bajracharya
Kiran R. Baral              Senior Procurement Officer        SARPS
Tekabe Ayalew Belay         Senior Economist (Health)         SASHN
Agnes Couffinhal            Senior Economist (Health)         ECSH1
Phoebe M. Folger            Operations Officer                SASHN
Drona Raj Ghimire           Environmental Specialist          SASDI
Sundararajan Srinivasa
                            Senior HNP Specialist             SASHN
Gopalan
Naima A Hasci               Senior Social Scientist           ECSS4
Jagmohan S. Kang            Consultant                        SASHD
Jaya Karki                  E T Temporary                     SASHD
Laura M. Kiang              Senior Operations Officer         SASHN
Luc Laviolette              Senior Nutrition Specialist       SASHN
Nagendra Nakarmi            Senior Program Assistant          SARFM
Toomas Palu                 Lead Health Specialist            EASHH
Bigyan B. Pradhan           Sr Financial Management Spec      SARFM


                                           37
Sushila Rai               Program Assistant             SASHD
Tirtha Rana               Consultant                    SASHD
Sandra Rosenhouse         Sr Population & Health Spec   SASHN
Nastu Prasad Sharma       Public Health Spec            SASHN
S. R. Tiwari              Consultant                    SASHD
Elfreda Vincent           Program Assistant             SASHD
Albertus Voetberg         Lead Health Specialist        SASHN
Alejandro Welch           Information Assistant         SASHD

Staff Time and Cost

                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                   N/A                        0
  FY98                                     3.56                    18.35
  FY99                                     2.12                     4.25
  FY00                                     6.91                    18.27
  FY01                                    16.4                     45.85
  FY02                                   N/A                       -1.03
  FY03                                     5.6                     52.89
  FY04                                    64.85                   330.75
  FY05                                    48.98                   131.21

                         Total:          148.42                   600.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                     0                        3.66
  FY05                                    15.91                    76.85
  FY06                                    63.32                   182.74
  FY07                                    41.50                   166.60
  FY08                                    62.76                   209.66
 FY09                                     53.34                   192.28
 FY10                                     44.59                   183.01
 FY11                                     11.78                    62.23

                         Total:          293.20                  1077.03




                                        38
        Annex 5. Implementation Arrangements for Sector Wide Approach

        Application of SWAp building blocks under NHSP I

SWAp               Application under NHSPP                                       Comments
Component

1. Sector Policy   Sector strategy was in place and stayed relevant              Strategy and its implementation plan with
and Strategy       throughout the Project implementation period                  EDP backing was effective as an instrument
                                                                                 for prioritization of resources and monitoring
                                                                                 performance. Interim constitution added a
                                                                                 dimension of free health care
2. Sector MTEF     Limited. Policy in place officially and the MOF requested     Although MTEFs were not actively used, the
                   sectors to prepare 3-year rolling plans, it was not applied   health strategy included specific
                   for practical purposes to actual planning in the MOHP.        commitments about increasing the health
                   Annual budget ceilings from MOF may differ based on           share within the Government budget and the
                   previous year's actual experience.                            allocation threshold within the budget to
                                                                                 Essential Health Care Program that served as
                                                                                 important benchmarks for resource allocation
                                                                                 throughout the project.
3. Programming     Annual Work Plan and Budget development process is in         Lesson learned during the implementation
resources          place. During the implementation an electronic tool was       that more continuous interaction is needed
                   developed and applied to facilitate programming. Annual       during the annual plan and budget preparation
                   plans and budgets are reviewed and agreed with external       phase. For the NHSP2 - more regular
                   development partners during Joint Annual Reviews.             meetings were agreed.
4. Performance     The Project used a sub-set of National Health Strategy        This pragmatic arrangement seemed to have
Monitoring         Indicators. Earlier studies had confirmed reliability of      worked well. Segregation of data by socio-
Systems            Government administrative data. Interim reports were          economic quintile, caste, ethnic group
                   prepared for on-going monitoring and feeding in to twice      requires additional data sources and analysis.
                   a year Joint Annual Review meetings. Parallel, DFID           Several partners/stakeholders also
                   funded technical assistance and research program              emphasized the need for continuous effort to
                   provided additional evidence.                                 strengthen HMIS.

5. Process of      Key processes and instruments are defined by a Statement      Nepal has adopted and implemented almost
Dialogue and Aid   of Intent (2004); Code of Conduct and IHP+ Compact;           ALL internationally known ODA
Coordination       Joint Financing Arrangement 1 signed by Gov., DFID,           harmonization and alignment instruments,
                   WB (2004) and AusAID (2009).                                  some streamlining and consolidation could be
                                                                                 useful. JAR process has been a continuous
                   MOH Structure. Health Sector Reform Unit organizes            learning and adaptation process that has been
                   government and EDP meetings, JARs, coordinates the            improving over time. Informants noted that
                   pooled part of SWAp support, prepares progress reports,       JAR has evolved from input to
                   assists Health Secretary in ODA harmonization and             output/outcome oriented process. JARs could
                   alignment issues.                                             benefit from more structured preparation
                                                                                 process (e.g. draft progress reports).
                   Regular meetings with Government and among DPs.               Stakeholders in country had decided to move
                   Quarterly Meetings under Health Sector Development            from 2 JARs to one JAR (performance
                   Partner Forum and monthly health sector External              review) and replace the planning JAR
                   Development Partners meetings. Joint Annual Reviews in        (perceived as formalistic) with more
                   place - twice a year, one dedicated to the review of past     continuous consultations during AWP&B
                   year's health sector performance; and, the other to           programming.
                   agreeing to the next years work plan and budget.

6. Moving          Annual programming using Government Work Plan and             Pooled partners fully relying Government
towards            Budget format in place.                                       programming. It was felt that the JAR was



                                                           39
harmonized                                                                        not the most efficient modality to discuss and
management                                                                        agree on AWB and it was suggested to be
systems in health                                                                 replaced by a series of
sector                                                                            consultation/coordination meetings over the
                                                                                  programming period.

                    Project used Government M&E framework and indicators          Reliability of HMIS data had been
                    complemented by additional studies/surveys as                 demonstrated in earlier studies. This
                    appropriate to gain more insights of particular issues.       combined with additional studies with
                                                                                  dedicated direct funding from DFID was a
                                                                                  pragmatic arrangement that served the project
                                                                                  well.

                    Procurement under the Project followed the use of IDA         Time bound capacity building plan had been
                    International Competitive bidding procedures for works        agreed and implemented. Decentralized
                    over US$1 million per contract and goods for over             procurement of goods (drugs, supplies, small
                    US$ 500,000 per contract. Procurement under these             equipment) posed significant capacity
                    thresholds followed modified national guidelines.             challenges and it was partly re-centralized
                                                                                  under the follow-up project (central bidding-
                                                                                  local purchase).

                    The program utilized Government systems for financial         The FM assessment acknowledged
                    management, reporting and auditing.                           impressive legal and regulatory framework
                                                                                  but pointed out weaknesses in compliance
                                                                                  and implementation capacity. Time bound
                                                                                  financial management improvement plan was
                                                                                  agreed and implemented. The FM systems
                                                                                  performance improved over the life of the
                                                                                  project, reflected in higher disbursement rates
                                                                                  and cleaner audit reports.

                    Other capacity. The Program included a comprehensive          There was not much evidence of significant
                    Action Plan for Capacity Building in the Ministry of          progress of comprehensive implementation of
                    Health, including functional analysis for division of labor   the plan from general reporting instruments.
                    and structure of work; availability, deployment, use and      However, in selected areas, apparent progress
                    management of human resources; availability,                  was made, e.g. inventory of medical
                    deployment, use and management of material resources;         equipment.
                    and, availability and use of information for policy making
                    and administration.

7. Funding          IDA and DFID provided funding support through pooled          Pooled funding support was very effective. It
Arrangements        arrangements. AusAID joined as a pooled partner in            provided additional credibility to the budget
and Pooling         2009. Pooled funding accounted for 19-23% of                  during the years of conflict, increased
                    Government health program budget, varying slightly year       predictability and flexibility of use of ODA
                    by year.                                                      financing.




                                                            40
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                     Nepal Health Sector Programme
                              (2004-2010)

                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR)




                              Prepared by

                         Dr. Babu Ram Marasini
                      Senior Health Administrator &
                    Programme Coordinator for NHSP-I
                      Ministry of Health & Population
                           Government of Nepal
                                Kathmandu

                              January 2010




                                   41
                              Abbreviations

CB-IMCI   Community Based Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
DoHS      Department of Health Services
DPHO      District Public Health Officer
EDPs      External Development Partners
FCHV      Female Community Health Volunteer
GoN       Government of Nepal
HepB      Hepatitis B
HFMC      Health Facility Management Committee
Hib       Haemophilus Influenza type B
HMIS      Health Management Information System
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMR       Infant Mortality Rate
INGO      International Non-Government Organization
JE        Japanese Encephalitis
LLIN      Long Lasting Insecticide Treated Nets
MCH       Maternal Child Health
MCHW      Maternal Child Health Workers
MD        Management Division
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MDR       Multi Drug Resistance
MMR       Maternal Mortality Rate
MNH       Maternal and Newborn Health
MoHP      Ministry of Health & Population
NDHS      Nepal Demography Health Survey
NHSP      Nepal Health Sector Programme
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NPC       National Planning Commission
SAS       Safe Abortion Services
SBA       Skilled Birth Attendance
SMNH      Safe Motherhood and Newborn Health
SWAP      Sector Wide Approach
TFR       Total Fertility Rate
TYIP      Three Year Interim Plans
U5MR      Under Five Mortality Rate
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
FCHV      Female Community Health Volunteer
WB        World Bank
WHO       World Health Organization




                                   42
                        Implementation Completion Report
                                         of
                    Nepal Health Sector Programme-I (2004-2010)

Introduction

The Nepal Health Sector Programme- I (NHSP-I) was launched in July 2004 as a
strategic health sector plan and completed its six year cycle in July 2010. Initially, it was
planned to launch along with the Tenth National Five Year Plan dedicated to Poverty
Reduction Strategy (2002-2007), but it could not be launched simultaneously due to
incomplete preparation for entering into sector wide approach (SWAp) in the health
sector. In 2007, Government of Nepal (GoN) launched Three Year Interim Plan (TYIP)
2007-2010, to support the national development and ongoing peace building process
initiated in 2006 to resolve the decade long armed conflict in the country. So, to align
with the TYIP (2007-2010), NHSP-I (2004-2009) extended for an additional year with
revision of some key targets and indicators and thus NHSP-I became a six year health
sector plan.

NHSP-IP-I is the road map for implementation of the Health Sector Strategy: An Agenda
for Reform (2003) and a complex combination of poverty reduction strategy (2002-2007)
for health sector, Millennium Development Goals (MDG) with health sector reform and
health sector wide approach as new initiatives.

Objectives

Increase the coverage and quality of essential health care services (EHCS), with a special
emphasis on improved access for poor and disadvantaged groups, through an efficient
sector wide health management system.

Design of the NHSP-I

The NHSP-I design was based on a programme approach with health SWAp and health
sector reform as important components. The financing of NHSP-I planned in three ways-
budget from GoN, health sector budget support with pooling of funds from the World
Bank (WB) and Department of International Development (DFID), UK with provision of
any other partner can join pool fund anytime. Other donors and development partners
such as AusAID, China, India, GAVI, Global Fund, GTZ/KFW, JICA, SDC, UNAIDS,
USAID, UNICEF, UNFPA, and WHO continued to support via the project approach.

NHSP-I design included poverty reduction, MDGs and other national plans. NHSP-I had
three programme outputs and five management outputs and a set of definite reform
agendas to be implemented during the programme period.

Pool funding by two donors proposed following national systems, processes and
procedures for expenditure as agreed in the Joint Financing Arrangement (JFA), while
parallel funding from other partners was possible.



                                             43
Every year, two joint annual reviews (JAR) were proposed­ one in November or
December for performance review and another for planning in May or June. Despite this,
health sector development partner's forum meetings to be held periodically for
consultations and discussions on health sector development issues at least three times
every year.
The strategy of pool partners was results-based financing and targets agreed upon were
health sector MDGs and contribution to poverty reduction. Under additional financing of
USD 50 million by WB, indicators related to utilization of health services by socially
excluded groups were also included in the programme document and proposed periodical
monitoring process. Similarly, Nepal became member of the International Health
Partnership Plus (IHP+) in 2007 and issue of Paris Declaration became prominent in the
later part of NHSP-I.

In summary, the design of the NHSP-I included the following as important components:

       Implementation of health sector reform with definite agendas
       Initiation of SWAp in health sector
       Health sector MDGs
       Poverty reduction and vulnerable community development plan
       Increase coverage of quality EHCS focusing poor and disadvantaged groups
       Reduce disparity in health services and bring equity in health care
       Decentralized management of primary health care level public sector health
       facilities and improved service delivery
       Partnership arrangements to improve delivery of EHCS with non-government
       sector
       Enhance capacity of health sector
       Health care waste management
       Donor harmonization

Implementation

Institutional arrangements

At the national level, the Secretary, Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP) was
identified as the overall chief of the NHSP-I. The Secretary was supported by the Chief
of the Health Sector Reform Unit (HSRU) and other divisions, centers and departments
of MoHP for implementation and advancement of the reform agenda. HSRU was also
given the responsibility of progress reporting with pool partners as well as a contact point
for donor concerns. No special project implementation unit was created for NHSP-I
implementation and the existing organizations of health services at national, regional &
district level were made responsible for implementation of the NHSP-I.

Implementation of services and interventions carried out through the existing public
sector health facilities under the Ministry of Health and Population such as female
community health volunteers, sub health post, health post, primary health care center,
district hospitals, and other government hospitals, partner hospitals, Regional Health


                                            44
Directorates, Department of Health Services and other Departments and in some cases by
MoHP.

To strengthen health service delivery at the local level an approach of decentralized
management of health services by forming local health facility management committees
was introduced in 29 districts with handover of 1435 health facilities to local
management committees. Partnership arrangements and contracting out of essential
health care services (EHCS) was done in areas where there are constraints in service
delivery by the public sector.

MoHP made a formal arrangement with Department of Urban Development & Building
Construction under Ministry of Physical Planning & Works for construction and
renovation of buildings of health facilities costing more than one million NRs, while
works less than one million continued by Management Division of DoHS.
Close coordination maintained for financial management with Ministry of Finance and
Office of the Comptroller General. All the NHSP-I related annual audit of the financial
expenditure (included in red book of annual budget) were done by Office of the Auditor
General of Nepal.

Monitoring and evaluation of the NHSP-I was done through the existing systems of
MoHP with a plan to strengthen it during the program period.

For smooth implementation, the policy documents agreed upon were documents such as
Health Sector Strategy: an Agenda for Reform, NHSP-IP and Letter of Intent to Guide
Partnership in Health Sector Development signed by both government and health sector
donors and letter written by Finance Minister on Government of Nepal's decision to
implement sector wide policy in health sector.

Operational experience

The implementation of NHSP-I was quite smooth and satisfactory in view of the ongoing
armed conflict and political instability when it started and at the middle of the programme
peace building process started after signing of the comprehensive peace accord in 2007.
After starting peace building process, the law and order situation improved satisfactorily
in many parts of the country except some hilly districts in eastern development region
and central terai districts. But, MoHP continued to deliver the health services in all parts
of the country and no major obstacle encountered for service delivery.

The macro-economic situation of the country remained stable over the NHSP-I period
except decreasing trend in export of Nepalese goods abroad with imbalance in export and
import. The Ministry of Finance continued to collect the revenue as targeted in each
financial year. Tourism industry showed signs of recovery with increasing flow of
tourists and increasing number of international airlines operating in Nepal. The major
source of foreign currency was remittance send by migrant Nepalese workers abroad in
NHSP-I period.




                                            45
In environmental situation, Nepal experienced new challenges of communicable diseases
outbreaks arising due to climate change. In health sector there was a plan to improve the
health care waste management in the country and some works initiated during the NHSP-
I period.

Nepal is a multi-ethnic, multi language and multi-cultural country and Government of
Nepal adopted a strategy of social inclusion to mainstream the all excluded castes, ethnic
groups and communities. Health sector also initiated several new schemes targeting poor,
women, children and socially excluded groups to improve the health status. Social
protection in health become an important issue at later phase of NHSP-I.

No special unit was established to implement NHSP-I and use of existing government
mechanism largely worked well and to some extent it enhanced the capacity of
government to lead the health sector. Similarly, it also increased the ownership of the
government and MoHP officers advocating project approach initially started to support
the programme approach in later part of the programme. It helped to reduce the
transaction cost of NHSP-I and more budget was available for service delivery.

The capacity of government increased significantly in procurement of goods,
construction and services, though procurement remained problematic during NHSP-I
period.

As per the concept of SWAp, five core indicators: immunization rate, contraceptive
prevalence rate, skilled birth attendance rate at birth and knowledge of HIV prevention
were identified for annual monitoring and evaluation purpose and this was decided by a
high level meeting of National Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance and Ministry
of Health from government and country head of DFID and Country Director of the World
Bank from pool partners. Ten JAR meetings were held during the NHSP-I period and 3-
5 health sector development partners forum meetings were held each year.

The evaluation, monitoring and reporting system couldn't improve as expected and
timely reporting of progress reports remained problematic.

The decision of National Planning Commission and Ministry of Finance to release GoN
budget to all activities related to priority one projects for first trimester irrespective of
availability of donor fund, helped to continue the activities right from first month of the
new Nepali financial year. This also lessened the impact of the delayed disbursement of
budget and delayed implementation of activities from donor agencies having different
financial year.

NHSP-I period also increased the donor harmonization and partnership with non-state
actors and this helped to bring more resources for health sector. No donor with formal
commitment pulled out from health sector during this period; however China, India and
INGOs continued to support the health sector in a different way. The signing of the
National Compact as per IHP+ membership requirement further strengthened the health
SWAp.



                                             46
Though the WB and DFID began pooling funds in the first year of NHSP-I, parallel
funding was also made available as projects by DFID in safe motherhood and HIV/AIDS
prevention and control and by WB in Avian Flu prevention and control. AusAID decided
to provide health sector budget support in 2008 and became the third pool partner during
NHSP-I period.

The leadership of the Ministry of Health remained satisfactory despite frequent political
and bureaucratic changes and this was instrumental in bringing more resources both from
national and external sources.

Outcome of operation against the agreed objectives

The outcomes of the NHSP-I is mainly the progress towards achieving the MDGs, which
is shown in Table-1. To monitor the annual progress four core indicators were identified
as shown in Table 2. Tables 3 and 4 show the progress towards the improvement of
health status of the poorest and the situation of reduction of disparity in health.

The progress towards achievement of health sector MDGs is quite satisfactory and Nepal
is doing quite well in MDG-4 child health and has reduced maternal deaths significantly
in achieving the MDG-5 maternal health. The achievement on MDG-6 also seems to be
doing well as shown in Table-1 and the situation of halt and reverse has already started in
TB and malaria. In HIV/AIDS also, the situation of concentrated epidemic in high risk
groups is declining and this led to the overall reduction of HIV prevalence, however
millions of migrant workers are working abroad and if they get infected it is likely that
they will infect the wives when they return home during vacation.

The causes behind the achievements in health outcomes was many new policies and
health initiatives initiated during this period focusing on MDGs. Both demand side and
supply side policy initiatives implemented to improve the MDG goals 4, 5, and 6 and all
of these initiatives were targeted. The issue of success of the health services and social
inclusion became prominent after the promulgation of Interim constitution of Nepal in
2007 and free health care concept with abolition of users fees and free provision of 34-40
essential drugs at primary health level introduced as a non-targeted scheme. Studies have
shown that the access of women, children and poor and marginalized groups increased
after the introduction of free health care.

The partnership arrangement with NGOs, not for profit, private sector for profit, and
academic sector also increased the coverage and utilization of EHCS and this ultimately
helped to improve health outcomes. Though the improvement of health outcomes is quite
impressive, in health outcomes across the development regions, the poor are not the same
and the Nepal health sector needs to put more effort on reducing the disparity in health
services.




                                            47
Table-1: MDG indicators including impact indicators
Indicator             MDG       Baseline      Mid term                  End line         Remarks
                      Target    year (2004- (2006-07)                   year (2009-
                                05)                                     10)
Infant mortality rate 34        64            48                        41
Under five child      54        91            61                        50
mortality rate/1000
live births
Maternal mortality    134       420           281                       229
ratio/100,000 live
births
HIV prevalence        Halt &    290           550                       390
rate/100,000          reverse
population
TB prevalence         Halt &    310           280                       244
rate/100,000          reverse
population
Malaria prevalence    Halt &    52            25                        18
rate/100,000          reverse
population
Total fertility       2.4       4.1           3.1                       2.9
rate/women
Poverty rate (living  17%       31                                      25.4
on <I USD/day)
Source: Baseline- Nepal Demographic Health Survey 2001 and Nepal Living Standard Survey 2003
Midterm- Nepal Demographic and Health Survey- 2006
End line- National Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Survey-2009 and Rural Health Survey- 2009

Table-2: Core or Coverage indicators
Indicator               MDG      Baseline                Mid term       End line         Remarks
                        Target   year (2004-             (2006-07)      year (2009-
                                 05)                                    10)
Immunization rate       90%      72                      88.6           88.8
Contraceptive           67%      35.4                    44.2           45.1
prevalence rate
Skilled birth           60%      12.9                    18.7           25.8
attendance rate
Knowledge of at least 100% for F: 37.6                   F: 58.3%       F: 70.9
one method of HIV       both sex M: 50.86                M: 81%
prevention
Nutrition stunting rate 30%      57                      48             45.5
(height for age) %




                                                48
Table-3: Poverty-lowest wealth quintile and health indicators
Indicator                       Baseline year   Midterm                  End line
% of children immunized         62.1            75.2                     82.6
against DPT-3 by 12-23
months age
Skilled birth attendance %      3.6             4.8                      8.1
Contraceptive prevalence rate 23.8              30.3                     38.1
(modern methods)
Nutrition stunting rate (height                 61.6                     58.8
for age) %

Table-4: Status of health disparity
Area of health        Programme                 Baseline               End line
disparity             indicator
Gender                Immunization ­all         Male- 67.5             Male -90.6-2
                      vaccines                  Female-63.9            Female -86.8-6
Poverty- Wealth       Assistance during                                Lowest quintile-8.1
quintile              delivery                                         Highest quintile-
                                                                       58.6
Geography-Remote       Nutrition (height for    56.9- mountain-hill    51.9-mountain-hill
vs. accessible         age) %                   47.1 ­terai            43.9-terai
Rural vs. urban        Contraceptive            Urban-62.2             Urban---
                       prevalence rate          Rural- 56.9            Rural-45.1
                       (modern methods)

New health policy initiatives

Major new policy initiatives to increase access to coverage and utilization of health
services started during NHSP-I period, and these can be categorized as targeted or non-
targeted or pro-poverty schemes.

Supply side

Pro-poor scheme: this provides fully subsidized medical care in emergency and inpatient
services to hard core poor at primary health care center and district hospitals.

Free health care: this has abolished user fees at district hospital and below public sector
health facilities with provision of 34 essential drugs in sub health post and health post and
40 items in primary health center and district hospitals.

Free maternity care: all maternity care provided free of cost in public sector health
facilities including enlisted partner hospitals.

Free surgery of uterine prolapsed: women having prolapse of uterus offered free
reconstructive surgery or hysterectomy.



                                               49
New immunization: vaccination against Japanese Encephalitis in 26 terai and three
districts of Kathmandu valley and Haemophilus Influenzae B started in all 75 districts.

Long lasting insecticide impregnated bed nets: the target area is 26 terai districts and
NHSP-I period 1.6 million bed nets distributed focusing high endemic malarial areas.

Zinc distribution during diarrhea and its coverage expanded to all 75 districts.

PMTCT and ART-initiated during NHSP-I period and services expanded to 31 hospitals
for ART and 21 for PMTCT.

Catastrophic expenditure during chronic illness for poor: Government of Nepal made a
decision to provide up to 50,000 NRs for poor suffering from chronic catastrophic
illnesses such as kidney disease, heart disease, cancer, Parkinson's disease and
Alzheimer's disease.

Scaling up of the health interventions

Safe abortion services: safe abortion services scaled up to 75 districts during NHSP-I
period.

IMCI: services expanded to all 75 districts from 12 districts before NHSP-I.

Communicable disease elimination programme initiated during this period as below:

Communicable Disease Elimination Programme
Name of disease elimination Current status                                 Remarks
programme
Poliomyelitis               Sporadic cases seen
Leprosy                     Elimination declared 2010
Neonatal tetanus            Elimination declared in 2005
Trachoma                    Elimination continuing in endemic districts
Lymphatic filariasis        Elimination programme continuing in
                            endemic districts in phases
Kala-azar                   Elimination programme ongoing in
                            endemic districts
Measles                     Second dose of measles administered to
                            under five children in 2005 and 2009

Demand side financing

Maternity incentive scheme: incentive as a transport compensation initiated during this
period providing 1500 NRs in high mountain areas, 1000 NRs for mountain areas and
500 for terai areas. Similarly, 400 NRs is provided for completing 4 antenatal,
institutional delivery and 2 post natal visits.




                                             50
Kala-azar incentive scheme: laboratory diagnosed positive Kala-azar cases are provided
1000 NRs as transport compensation.

MDR TB and HIV: demand side financing to support nutrition and housing needs.

Ministry of Health and Population or Borrowers own performance

Ministry of Health and Population worked for at least two years (2002-2004) to prepare
and finalize the Nepal Health Sector Programme- I, document wide consultations carried
with stakeholders to finalize the document. The main policy document, Health Sector
Strategy: An Agenda for Reform, was agreed by Ministry of Finance and National
Planning Commission and final approval was given by the Cabinet meeting of December
2003. The Cabinet also approved the `statement of intent to guide the partnership for
development of health sector in Nepal' and later it was signed by government and
donors in February 2004 and this made it possible to establish the health sector
development partner's forum. In July 2004, the Finance Minister wrote a letter to the
World Bank on sector development policy in health sector endorsed by the Cabinet.
Government of Nepal endorsed the Nepal Health Sector Programme-Implementation
Plan (2004-2009) in August 2004.

The Ministry continued to hold the JAR meetings and health sector development partners'
forum periodically. Ministry also took the leadership to develop new policies and, as a
result of this, several policies were implemented as mentioned above. The ownership of
government in aid management also increased during this period and overall leadership to
steer the health sector saw ups and downs due to frequent changes and political instability.

Financial performance

The financial performance improved significantly during NHSP-I period. The total
budget of the health sector increased nearly threefold during this period. The health sector
budget always remained more than 5% each year and in one year it crossed 7%. The
actual expenditure rate also improved significantly from 70% in first year to nearly 90%
in sixth year. The budget irregularity rate also was low than the NHSP-I period.

Out of the total budget for the health sector, two thirds of the budget was allocated for the
health sector for EHCS in each and every financial year.

The total resource envelope initially planned was USD 498 million; however the
availability of resources for six years was nearly USD 1,000 million.

Table 5: Financial performance during NHSP-I
Financial     Total health Health budget as       Actual expenditure   Budget irregularity
year          budget (NRs a % of national         rate as a % of       rate (%) as pointed
              Billions)    budget                 planned budget       by audit
2003-04       5.5          4.93                   73                   13.56
2004-05       6.54         5.86                   70                   8.12
2005-06       7.56         5.96                   76.5                 9.12


                                             51
2006-07      9.23          6.41                 81                   11.18
2007-08      12.1          7.16                 81                   12.75
2008-09      14.94         6.33                 84.9                 8.91
2009-10      17.84         6.24                 90                   Not finalized

Human resource management

During the NHSP-I period, GoN implemented the mandatory two year rural service for
all physicians completing physician or dentist course under the scholarship scheme and
with this nearly 230 doctors are now working in rural areas or outside Kathmandu valley.
Similarly, large numbers of health workers are taken into the contractual service in the
vacant post or where the number is less and work load is high.

Lessons learned

       The focus of NHSP-I in poverty reduction and health sector MDGs with the
       approach of SWAp and health sector reform helped to achieve the targets leading
       to increased flow of resources;
       No special unit for implementation worked well and transaction cost reduced
       Retroactive financing and reimbursement system
       NHSP focus on MDGs and poverty reduction attracted increased health sector and
       this improved the results as well as spending leading to further increase in health
       sector budget;
       Pool funding with flexible financing strategy and use of national system with
       continuous financial management approach enhanced government ownership;
       Holding of joint annual review for annual planning and work plan and
       performance review every year led to build confidence between government and
       donors;
       Allocation of two third budget for EHCS helped improve health outcomes and
       achievement of health sector MDGs on right track.

Performance of the World Bank

The work of the World Bank remained good throughout the NHSP-I period in view of the
disbursement of annual budget and financial management, coordination with pool as well
as other development partners, advancement of SWAp and harmonization. The major
accomplishments of the bank were:

       Reward with additional USD 50 million financing for excellent achievements in
       health sector MDGs and poverty reduction, as a part of performance based
       Retroactive, predictable and flexible financing for each financial year
       Coordination with pool partners and non-pool partners enhancing SWAp in health
       sector
       Strengthening of procurement and financial management systems




                                           52
The World Bank continued to send small missions for supervision except once in 2008.
The country office continued activities related to quality control such as exp-post review
of procurement, and quality test of drugs. The only comment that came from divisional
directors of DoHS was related to international competitive biddings in which the time
taken for concurrence was unusually long.

DfID

DFID being a pool partner along with the World Bank performed well during the NHSP-I
period. British Government in initial period of IHP+ coordinated at global level to bring
the major partners working in health sector on the basis of Paris Declaration on Aid
Effectiveness and health sector MDGs followed by creating a supporting environment at
national level. DFID also provided additional financing as a IHP+ signatory to Nepal
Health sector.

AusAID

AusAID was supporting Nepal health sector through NGOs only, but became a pool
partner in 2008 and it was a big breakthrough for MoHP.

UN Agencies

UN agencies e.g. UNAIDS, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO performed better with the initiation
of common country framework- United Nations Development Assistance Framework
(UNDAF). WHO performed better than other UN agencies in terms of harmonization
with the government. Despite being a signatory of 2004 letter of intent and IHP+ at
global level, International Labour Organization (ILO) remained totally outside the donor
harmonization and coordination with the Nepal health sector.

GTZ/KfW

GTZ adopted the approach of technical assistance, while KfW provided the financial
assistance adopting the programme approach in specified activities.

USAID

USAID is a major contributor to the health sector, largely worked through the NGOs, but
practically it supported the approach of aid effectiveness.

JICA

JICA worked through the government in school health and nutrition project.

SDC

Worked vertically to implement the rural health development project.



                                           53
GAVI

GAVI also worked through the government in project basis.

Global Fund

The Global Fund adopted the disease specific project approach with individual project
implementation units with separate country coordination mechanisms (CCM).

China

China is an important partner in health sector development contributing in the health
infrastructure and tertiary medical care in Nepal.

India

India is also an important partner in health sector development contributing in medical
education, tertiary medical care and strengthening of ambulance services in Nepal.

INGOs

INGOs contribute significantly in the development of the health sector in Nepal, and
there is lot to do for harmonization in Nepal.

Coordination and effectiveness between donors

Coordination and effectiveness significantly improved between donors in during the
NHSP-I period. Harmonization and aid effectiveness efforts continued with formation of
external development partner's forum by donors and initiation of periodical dialogue.
However, China, India, ILO and INGOs remained outside the alliance. GAVI and Global
Fund also remained outside the alliance as there is no country office of these
organizations.

Lessons learned

        Retroactive financing helped to continue the implementation of the planned
        activities if the procedures from Government and Donor were completed in time;

        Significant reduction of abroad missions in later part of NHSP-I in comparison to
        initial phase;

        The SWAp approach brought the large number of development partners in one
        forum and reduced their differences on aid management;

        In the NHSP-I period the health sector observed reduction of abroad missions
        from individual donor agencies and the timing of visits also planned during JAR.


                                           54
       Good trend also seen during this period with some joint missions' visits from
       abroad represented by several organizations at a time with same purpose.

Proposed arrangements for future operation of the programme

The following areas should be given due consideration for future operations:

       Health system strengthening approach in supporting health sector
       Harmonization of technical assistance
       Difference of the financial year
       Initiation of joint monitoring visits
       Dialogue with China, India and Global Fund for harmonization
       Assist strengthening health management information system so that required
       information for NHSP-II can be obtained from routine administrative procedures
       annually
       No parallel funding at least by pool partners
       Addressing the long time taken for providing concurrence in ICB
       Joint missions from different agencies from abroad at a time
       Implement package for deployment and retention of HRH working in rural and
       remote areas




                                           55
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were received.




                                    56
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, August 2004
Project Paper for Additional Financing, April 2008
Joint Annual Review, Aide-Memoires, Procurement Post Reviews
Annual Work Plan and Budget [FY 2007/08]. Ministry of Health and Population.
Government of Nepal
Assessing Implementation of Nepal's Free Health Care Policy: First, Second, Thirds,
Fifth and Sixth Trimester Health Facility Survey Reports. April 2009, June 2009,
December 2009, June 2010. RTI
Equity Analysis of Health Care Utilization and Outcomes. August 2008, RTI
Family Planning, Maternal and Newborn and Child Health Situation in Rural Nepal: A
Mid-Term Survey for NFHP II. March 2010. New Era, Kathmandu, Nepal
Managing Public Finances for a New Nepal: A Public Finance Management Review,
Draft, July 5, 2007, World Bank
Nepal Country Assistance Evaluation. April 2009, IEG, World Bank
Nepal Demographic and Health Survey Report 2006, 2007, Ministry of Health and
Population, New Era, Macro
Nepal Health Sector Program: Quality Enhancement Review, Final Report, march 2004
Nepal Health Sector Program 2: Programme Memorandum. March 2010, DFID
Nepal Health Sector Program: Third Trimester and Annual Implementation Progress
Report 2008/09. Health Sector Reform Unit, Ministry of Health and Population
Nepal Health Sector Support Program Project: Quality Enhancement Review. Final Panel
Report, March, 2008.
Nepal Health Sector Program: implementation plan I 2004-2009. June 2004, Ministry of
Health and Population, Government of Nepal
Nepal Health Sector Program: implementation plan II 2010-2015. February 2010,
Ministry of Health and Population, Government of Nepal
Nepal: Public Expenditure Review. Draft, June 16, 2010, World Bank
Nepal Trend Report: Trends in Demographic and Reproductive Health Indicators. Macro,
2007
Quality Enhancement Review: Nepal Health Sector Support Program Project. Final
Panel Report, March 2008
Participatory Stakeholder Framework (PSF) for Nepal Health Sector Project (NHSP).
Pro-poor Health Care Policy Monitoring: Household Survey Report from 13 Districts.
April 2010. RTI
Review of Nepal Health Sector Program: A Background Document for the Mid-Term
Review. Mick Foster Economics Ltd. November 2007
Social Assessment of the Nepal Health Sector Reform. Consultant Report, 2004
Survey of Medical & Other Equipment ­ Nepal Health Sector Program. Final Report,
February 2010. Faith Health Care Private Limited
The Sector Wide Approach in the Health Sector: Achievements and Lessons Learned.
May 2010. Ministry of Health and Population, Government of Nepal




                                        57
                                 80°E                                                                      82°E                                                                                                                          86°E                                                          88°E
                                                                                                                                                                               84°E




                                                                       To
                                                                      Barga


                                                                                                 Simikot
                 30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEPAL
                                  To
                                Ranikhet                        L¯I
                                                   KAi
                                                  ¯ l
                                                    ¯
                                                 HA a

                                                           ak
                                                      ah
                                                  M

                                                                              Chainpur
                                                                                                            H                                                                                   CHINA
                                                                                                                   K A R N A L¯
                                                                                                                           ¯ I
                                        Baitadi
                                              MA




                                                                         S E T¯
                                                                              I
                                                                       Silgadhi
                                                                                                                              i
                                            Dandeldhura
                                                      ¯                                                               Jumla

                                                                                   Ka
                                                                                     rn
                                                                                       ali
                                                                                                                                               m                      Mustan




                                                                                                                                                                      IR¯
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                               Dunai

                                                                                                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                               B H E R¯
                                                                                                      I                                                                   Jomsom




                                                                                                                                                              LA
                                                           Dhangarhi              Birendranagar
                                                                                                                                                                            l




                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                                            G A N D A K¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To




                                                                                                                                                        AW
                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                               Xegar
                                                                                                                                                                                                a




                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                               Sallyan




                                                                                                                                                              K al
                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                         Baglung




                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                Pokhara
                                                                                                           Tulsipur                                                                                     y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mt. Everest
                 28°N                                                                          Nepalganj                 ¯
                                                                                                                       R A P T¯
                                                                                                                              I                                                                                          a                                                  (8848 m)                                     28°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kodan
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                            B A G M A T¯
                                                     To
                       To                         Lucknow                                                                                                                                                              I      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R M AT ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                  Shahajahanpur                                                                                                                                                                       Nuwakot
                                                                                                                                                       L U M B I N¯
                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                   KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KATHMANDU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¯ H
                                                                                                                                                               Butawal                    ani          Lalitpur
                                                                                                                                                                                   N   ary
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                To
                                                                                             Faizabad
                                                                                                                                                   Bhairawa                                                        Bhimphedi                                                      Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M E C H¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Taplejun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K O S¯
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                      Okhaldhunga
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hetauda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                  To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SAGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAY ¯                                  Ramechhap                                                               Saidpur
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAYANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAYANI                 Sindhulimadi

                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                       Faizabad                                                           Birganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JANAKPUR                                                   Dhankuta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sun Ko                        Ilam
                                     NEPAL
                                                                Lucknow
                                                                                                                                                                           To                                          Gaur                                                               Dharan
                                                                                                                                                                        Faizabad
                                                                                                                                       INDIA                                                                                             Janakpur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rajbiraj
                                       Kanpur
                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Biratnagar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                      ZONE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                             Baruni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                            Faizabad                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baruni
                                      RIVERS                                                       26°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         26°N

                                      MAIN ROADS                                                               0      25          50      75       100 Kilometers

                                      RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                               0           25              50            75 Miles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33455
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                      ZONE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baruni                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jangipur
                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                        82°E                                                                84°E                                                            86°E                                                              88°E
