                                             Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                           ReportNo. 43163-NP




                                        PROJECTPAPER

                                                ONA

                    PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING (GRANT)

                          INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR31.3 MILLION
                                (US$50MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO

                                               NEPAL

                                                FORA

                                 HEALTHSECTORPROGRAM

                                            April 2,2008




HumanDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and maybeusedbyrecipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                (Exchange Rate Effective = M a r c h 26,2008)

                                Currency Unit       -
                                                    -               NPR
                                  NPR 1.00          -
                                                    -         US$0.01550
                                  U S $ l-00        -          NPR 64.50


                                              FISCALYEAR
                                        July 16     --       July 15

                                 ABBREWIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWPB     Annual Work Plan and Budget                   HDI            Human Development Index
BEOC     Basic Emergency Obstetric Care                H M I S        Health Management Information System
CB-IMCI  Community-Based IntegratedManagement o f      IDA            International DevelopmentAssociation
          Childhood Illnesses                          IPR            ImplementationProgress Report
CEOC     Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric Care        JAR            Joint Annual Review
CPR      Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                 L M I S        Logistic Management Information System
DDA      Department o f DrugAdministration             MD             Management Division
DFID     Department for International Development, UK  MDG            Millennium Development Goal
DHO      District Health Office                        MOF            Ministry o fFinance

DHS      Demographic and Health Survey                 MOHP           Ministry o fHealth andPopulation

DIR      Detailed Implementation Review                NHSP           Nepal Health Sector Program

DOA      Department o f Ayurveda                       NPC            National Planning Commission

DOHS     Department o f Health Services                PDO            Project Development Objective
                                                                      Public Private Partnership
DOUDBC   Department o f UrbanDevelopment and Building  PPP
                                                       PPR            Post Procurement Review
         Construction                                  RTI            Research Triangle Institute
EDP      External Development Partner                  SDIP           Safe Delivery Incentive Program
FCGO     Financial Comptroller General Office          SDS            Service Delivery Survey
EHCS     EssentialHealth Care Services                 SHP            Sub HealthPost
FM       Financial Management                          SWAP           Sector Wide Approach
FMIAP    Financial Management Improvement Action Plan TB-DOTS         Tuberculosis-Directly Observed Treatment
FMR      Financial Management Report                                  Short-Course
GAAP     Governance and Accountability Action Plan     UNFPA          UnitedNations PopulationFund
GON      Government o fNepal
HIV/AIDS Human ImmunodeficiencyVirus/ Acquired
         Immune Deficiency Syndrome




                                      Vice President      Prahl C. Patel
                                    Country Director       Susan G. Goldmark
                              Acting Sector Director      John A. Roome
                                         Task Leader      Jagmohan S. Kang




                                                    11

                                                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                  Table of Contents

                    ProjectPaper DataSheet ..............................................................................                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                      111
        I           Introduction   .........................................................................................................................           1
        I1..        BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing                                                         ........................................     1
        I11         ProposedChanges           .............................................................................................................            6
        I V ..      Consistency with the 2007 InterimStrategyNote                                                ................................................      8
        V .         Appraisalof Scaled-UpProjectActivities                                      ...............................................................        8
        V I         SafeguardsandBankPolicies                          ......................................................................................          9
        VI1         ExpectedOutcomes              ..........................................................................................................           9
        VI11...     BenefitsandRisks          .............................................................................................................            9
        IX  .       FinancialTerms andConditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing                                                                     .................... 11
        Annex 1 EnhancedResultsin SelectedOutputAreas
                  .                                                                                 .........................................................         12
        Annex 2 FinancialManagementRiskAssessment                                                                                                                     18
        Annex 3 GovernanceandAccountabilityAction Plan
                  ..                                                                         ................................................................
                                                                                                     ........................................................        25
        Annex 4 FinancingPlan                                                                                                                                        30
        Annex 5 ProjectSupervision
                  ..                  ...................................................................................................................
                                               ..........................................................................................................            32
        Annex 6 Statementof Loansand Credits                                                                                                                         34
        Annex 7 Nepalat a glance
                  ..                                                      .................................................................................
                                           .............................................................................................                             35



        Listof Tables
        Table 1: Enhanced Project Development Objectives..........................................................                                                    9
        Table 2: Risks. Ratings andMitigation Measures ............................................................                                                  10
        Table 3: Progress to Date. Milestones and Targets for Selected Output Areas o f the
                  Nepal Health Sector Program Additional Financing .........................................                                                         13
        Table 4: Financial ManagementImprovement Action Plan.............................................                                                            21
        Table 5: Financial Management Risk RatingSummary...................................................                                                          24
        Table 6: Governance andAccountabilityAction Plan .....................................................                                                       26
        Table 7: MOHP Budget and Expenditure. 2003/04-2007/08 (NRmillion)......................                                                                      30
        Table 8: NHSP InitialPlanand Status after 4 Years (US$ million) .................................                                                            31
        Table 9: Enhanced andExtendedNHSP Funding(US$ million).....................................                                                                  31
        Table 10: Supervision. Monitoring and Evaluation Tools and Timeline..........................                                                                33




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                         11


                              PROJECTPAPERDATA        SHEET

Date: April 2,2008                             Team Leader: Jagmohan S. Kang
Country: Nepal                                 Sector Directormanager: John A. Roome
Project Name: Additional Financing Grant       Country Director: Susan G. Goldmark
for Health Sector Program                      Environmental Category: B
Proiect ID:P110731
Recipient: Nepal
Responsible agency: Ministryo fHealth and Population
                        - -- -
P P
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




The project development objective remains to expandaccess to, anduse of, essential
health care services. esueciallv bv underserved uouulations.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o
    - -
                                 For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [XI Grant
For LoadCredits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m): 50
       Proposed terms: Standard
                                 FinancingPlan (US$m.)




DFID
OthersDonors (TBD)




                                             iii


I.Introduction

1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional financing grant o f US$50 million equivalent to the Nepal Health Sector
Program (PO40613 - Credit 3980-NEP and Grant H125 NEP).

2.    Theproposed grantwould help scale-up awell performing sector-wide program and
enhance its impact. The expansion o f essential health care services to the population,
central to the program, has been faster than planned and has translated into an early
achievement o f some targets. Inthis process, resources were absorbed more quickly than
anticipated.     The original five-year cost estimate for the overall sector program was
US$498 million. More than 85% o f this amount will have been usedduringthe first four
years. The initial IDA contribution o f US$50 million will have been effectively used,
leaving no IDA hnds for FY2009/10. Further, the Government o f Nepal (GON) has
sought a one-year extension o f the sector program to synchronize its second phase with
the country's next Five-Year Planwhich i s expected to commence from July 2010.

3.    Duringthe next two years, the geographic coverage o f essential services' will be
expanded, and policies aimed at increasing access by the poor more systematically
implemented. As such, additional financing will support the government's response to
the people's expectations of inclusive and accountable public services. All the main
health donors2 are participating in the sector-wide approach (SWAP). Though only IDA
and the Department for International Development, UK (DFID) are currently pooling
funds, several other donors are considering pooling funds and some are expected to start
pooling even before this program phase ends.                        The original program objectives,
components and key performance indicators will remain unchanged and the planned
outcomes will not only be achieved but enhanced significantly, better reflecting the
inclusion agenda.

11. BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing

4.    Country Context: Nepal i s emergingout of nearly a decade and halfo f conflict and
political instability. The present seven-party alliance government came to power
following the Second Popular Movement o f April 2006. Apart from managing the peace
process, ensuring security and conducting elections for a constituent assembly, the
Interim Government i s expected to continue developmental activities, improve the
delivery o fpublic services and enhance equity across groups. Ifthe Interim Government
succeeds inproviding better andmore inclusive social services, peace will have delivered
genuine dividends to the people o f Nepal. To meet these expectations, the legislature's


1The expression "essential health care services" (EHCS), or "essential services" for short, used throughout
the document, refers to a specific package o f cost-effective interventions which seek to improve
reproductive, maternal and child health and to control communicable diseases.
  The list includes AusAID: Australian Agency for International Development, DFID:Department for
International Development (UK),GTZ: Deutsche Gesellschaft ftir Technische Zusammenarbeit, ILO:
International Labour Organization, KFW: KfW Entwicklungsbank, SDC: Swiss Development Corporation,
UNAIDS -UNJoint program on HIV and AIDS, UNFPA: United Nations Population Fund,UNICEF:
UnitedNations Children's Fund, USAID: United States Agency for International Development, WHO:
World Health Organization.



                                                   - 1 -

Parliament promulgated an InterimConstitution which recognizes access to health care as
a fundamental right, with a stress on equity, andthe InterimGovernment included health
as one o f the three priorities o f the three-year InterimPlan.

5.    Sector Context:      Nepal has been increasingly committing its public resources
towards improving the health system, with a focus on essential health care services,
especially for the underserved. It intends to sustain these efforts and continue expanding
the coverage o f key services. In FY2007/08, health represented more than 7% o f the
government budget, up from 4.9% in FY2003/04, and an increase o f 30% over the
previous year's budget. The constitutional right to health care is being translated into a
policy o f free essential health care. InDecember 2006, emergency and inpatient services
at the district hospitals and primary health care centres were declared free for "the
disadvantaged, destitute, underserved, the elderly, the people living with physical and
psychological disability, and Female Community Health Volunteers".           Also, outpatient
care was declared free in 35 low human development indicator districts. In October
2007, GON fkrther decided to offer essential care free o f charge to all citizens at all
health posts and sub-health posts from January 2008. The GON has been preparing to
implement this policy, fully aware o f the potential risks, and the need to ensure
sustainable financing and quality o f care.

6.    The above approach is endorsed by the donors who support a common sector
strategy, a jointly developed Nepal Health Sector Program, and who jointly review
program performance with GON twice a year. Nepal is one o f the seven first-wave
countries to benefit from the International Health Partnership. By holding the partnership
signatories accountable to their commitments, Nepal can hope to improve aid-
effectiveness and further strengthen the SWAP.

7.    Objectives and Scope: The Health Sector Program development objective i s to
expand access to and the use o f essential health care services, especially by underserved
populations. The initial program was based on the Health Sector Strategy: An Agenda
for Change developed jointly by the Ministry o f Health and Population (MOHP) and the
sector's donors. Eight areas o f intervention or "outputs" were consolidated under two
components: (a) Strengthened Service Delivery; and (b) Institutional Capacity and
Management Development. Strengthened service delivery involved (i)           the expansion o f
essential services; (ii) participation o f local authorities in service delivery management,
and(iii) ofpublic privatepartnerships (PPPs). Institutional capacity andmanagement
         use
development was to translate into improved (i)       sector management; (ii) financing;
                                                                             sector
(iii)physical assets management including drugs and supplies; (iv) human resource
development; and (v) monitoring and evaluation. The program's December 2007 mid-
term review concluded that the Program objectives, components and planned outputs
remain valid, especially inthe context o f "New Nepal."

8.    The original Project was approved by the Board on September 9, 2004. The grant
o f SDR27.3 million and credit o f SDR6.9 million (a total o f US$50 million equivalent)
became effective on February 25, 2005. The Project i s scheduled to end on July 15,
2009. By January 2008, the IDA grant had disbursedUS$33.8 million equivalent (SDR
22.83 million), and an additional US$10.6 million equivalent has already been authorized
for disbursement. The balance is expected to reimburseFY2007/08 program expenditure.



                                              - 2 -

9.   Impressive Performance on Development Objectives: Nepal i s on course to meeting
the health Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) related to child and, possibly,
maternal mortality, as well as Tuberculosis and Malaria.                  Remarkably, despite the
challenging political and governance context, it outperformed several countries in the
region. For instance, infantmortality rate (per 1000 live births) has declined from 110 in
1991 to 48 in2006, a faster decline than in India despite India's higher per capita income
and female literacy. In fact, Figure 1shows that while Nepal spends only $4 o f public
money per capita, it outperforms its neighbors on this dimension (Figure 1). Under-five
mortality rate (per 1000 live births) has declined from 118 in 1996 to 61 in 2006 and
maternal mortality ratio from 539 (per 100,000 live births) in 1996 to 281 in 2006.
Similar1 the total fertility rate has declined from 4.6 children per woman in 1996 to 3.1
in 2006!'    These are all impressive results. Independent analysis commissioned for the
mid-termreview attributed a substantial share o f these achievements to specific public
health interventions. Data derived from the Health Management Information System,
corroborated by the independently conducted Demographic and Health Surveys (DHSs);
indicate solid achievements inthe four key performance indicators set at the beginningo f
the Nepal Health Sector Program. These indicators are: contraceptive prevalence rate;
skilledbirthattendance; full immunization rates; andknowledge o fone correct methodof
preventing HIV/AIDS. These indicators are likely to meet or, in the case o f the
contraceptive prevalence rate and immunization, exceed their initial targets.

          Figure1:InfantMortalityRatesandPublicExpenditureper Capita
                                            in SouthAsia

                                                                                              7

                    Infant Mortality Rate
                                                                                              6
                 0 Public ExpenditureperCapita

                                                                                              5

                                                                                             4ti
                                                                                                 I4
                                                                                              3 4 9


                                                                                              2


                                                                                              1


                                                                                              0
                 Nepal             Bangladesh               India               Pakistan

         Sources: Public expenditure per capita, 2005, WHO. IMR:Data fromDHS 2005-07,
         except for Bangladesh (2005: Health, Nutritionand PopulationStatistics, World Bank).

10. In program implementation, the country has systematically prioritized the
expansion o f essential health care services whose provision currently absorbs over 70%

3Data are from the Demographic and Health Surveys.



                                                 - 3 -

o f MOHP budget (from a pre-program baseline o f 60%). This first SWAP in the health
sector has mitigated the long-standing issues o f a fragmented approach to management
and different donors' interventions benefiting limited geographic areas.                  The Nepal
Health Sector Program has rapidly expanded access to essential services. For example,
the community-based integrated management o f childhood illnesses has been expanded
from 6 to 55 districts and will cover the entire country (75 districts) within a year.
Vaccination for Japanese Encephalitis has been integrated with the immunization
program in all endemic areas saving hundreds o f lives annually. Several reproductive
health services have seen similar expansion, including abortion services, legalized after
the Program began and an incentive program which supports providers and women to
increase institutional delivery and attendance by a health professional. The Program
implementation plan targeted 50% coverage by the end o f FY2006/07, which has been
exceeded. Several o f these successes were achieved through collaboration with the
private sector. However a few reforms did not proceed as planned. For example, in
decentralization, after the management o f over a thousand facilities was handed over to
communities, the lack o f elected bodies at the district and village levels stalled the
process4. Similarly until recently, frequent MOHP leadership changes and the political
context made for delays in ministry-level decision making and implementation, e.g.,
capacitybuildingstudies, service delivery surveys, etc.

11. On the other hand, MOHP has made a strong shift from the administration of
vertical projects to a government-led harmonized sector-wide approach. It i s increasingly
leading the dialogue in an open and transparent manner and successfully steering the
SWAP. Donors have been participating fully and several now envisage pooling their
funds with MOHP. New policy initiatives, such as the targeted removal o f user fees, are
beingmanaged inanintegrated way; for instance, the possible increase inthe demand for
drugs following this reform was anticipated andprovided for by tripling the drugbudget.
The technical assistance unit set up in October 2007, has started effectively supporting
the ministryto further accelerate the system's development.

12. Financial Management: Duringthe first two years, financial management (FM)was
rated "Unsatisfactory"; it was upgraded to "Moderately Unsatisfactory" in2007 to reflect
recent improvements. The reasons for the previous rating were the delayed receipt o f
FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMRs), the FMunit's non-responsiveness to audit queries
andlack ofprogress inFMcapacity building. This situationresulted from a general lack
o f capacity in the MOHP. However, gradual improvements have taken place and been
accelerated with the strengtheningo f a key coordination unit inthe MOHP. For example,
the FY2005/06 audit report, covering the entire sector, was received on time and the
backlog o f FMRs has beencleared. The quality of ImplementationProgress Reports that
include FMRs has improved, and MOHP has started implementing the updated FM
Improvement Action Plan, including the training o f district and lower level staff in
accounting and internal controls. It i s now close to obtaining an on-line connection with
the Office o f the Financial Comptroller General that will further speed up the
consolidation o f sector-level expenditure and therefore FMR preparation. Similarly, the
un-audited report for FY2006/07 accounts has been received and the audit report is

 Table 3 provides more details about achievements to date inthe second column "progress under NHSP"
(pp.13 inAnnex 1).



                                               - 4 -

expected on time. However, notwithstanding these efforts, further improvement in
financial management will require time and sustained implementation o f the FM
Improvement Action Plan. The latter has been assured by the highest levels o f the
MOHP which has committed to implementingmost agreed actions by June 2008. It has
also agreed to strengthenits FMunitwith an additional specialist by April 30, 2008. The
FM rating will remain unchanged until tangible progress in the implementation of the
above Action Plani s observed5.

13. Procurement: There are no specific issues in procurement at the moment. The
procurement rating o f one 2007 ISR was "Moderately Unsatisfactory" due to delays,
some o f which could be attributed to the prevailing political situation, and others to
capacity constraints. The Public Procurement Act and Public Procurement Regulations
promulgated in 2007 are fostering improvements in the national procurement regime.
These new legal requirements and the experience slowly gained by the implementing
agency have helped improve the procurement rating to "Moderately Satisfactory".          To
implement the new legal requirements effectively, and further improve internal systems
and capacity, MOHP will: (a) post its annual and overall procurement plans on its
website and update these monthly; (b) establish a system to carry out proper market
surveys to prepare cost estimates for each procurement item; and (c) ensure, with support
from an expert panel, the regular updating o f specifications for goods and
pharmaceuticals reflecting current technological advances. The procurement rating will
further improve once MOHP strengthens its procurement capacity by hiring, within April
2008, an experienced procurement professional, and initiates the above and other
procurement related agreed actions indicated in the Governance and Accountability
Action PlaninAnnex 3 (pp. 25)

14. In conclusion, while there are implementation challenges, MOHP i s committed to
meeting them. The Nepal Health Sector Program i s moving inthe right direction and the
SWAp i s becoming institutionalized. Financial management and procurement are now
receiving high priority which should result in further improvements during the next few
months. Considering the continuing strong output performance, speedy expansion o f
essential care health services, and promising outlook, the Development Objectives and
Implementation Progress ratings were upgraded from "Moderately Satisfactory" to
"Satisfactory" after the mid-term review.

15. Justijkationfor Additional Financing in light of the Financing Plan: Three factors
have led to this request: (a) faster absorption o f resources inthe first four program years
that has resultedin early achievement o f targets and clear impact on reproductive health,
child health and communicable disease control; (b) continued scaling up o f essential
health care services; and (c) the decision to extend the Nepal Health Sector Program by
one year.    Studies undertaken to prepare the initial program showed that providing
essential services over five years would require at least US$650 million, and that total
public health expenditure over that period should be around US$850 million. Taking into
account MOHP implementation capacity and the context, the original target for the
program was realistically set at US$498 million for five years, o f which GON was
expected to finance US$286 million. By the end o f the fourth fiscal year, the Program


 A more detailed FinancialManagementRiskAssessment is presentedinAnnex 2, pp.18.


                                          - 5 -

will have consumed 85% o fthe initially plannedprogram resources andMOHP paid 90%
o f its commitment. To further enhance activities and extend the Program by one year,
US$400 million will be required for the next two fiscal years.                 This will bring the
Program total cost to US$823 million for six years, which remains below the initially
projected requirement for five years6.

16. IDA and Other Donors' Contributions: The current un-disbursed balance o f the
IDA Grant and Credit (about US$19 million) is expected to be utilized within
FY2007/08, leaving no IDA funds for the Program thereafter.                   IDA resources were
disbursed faster also because DFID could initially provide substantially less than its
committed contribution to the pool funds.              Yet, DFID will have met its initial
commitment to the Program by the end o f the fifth year. Further, it has increased its
contribution for the expanded program. Looking forward therefore, GON will meet half
the required US$400 million for the next two years and DFID has committed a total o f
US$59 million to the Program, US$34 million as pooled funds. GON is requesting
US$60 to US$65 million grant from IDA and expects to meet the remainingrequirement
from other donors who are all supportive o f the increased budgetary outlay. So far, IDA
contribution to the Program has averaged around 12% o fthe MOHP annual expenditures.
At this rate, IDA would be expected to contribute a total of US$50 million, US$25
million each in FY2008/09 and FY2009/10. IDA i s the lead donor for the health sector
program, and the rationale for its continued involvement is strong. Further, providing
additional financing in the next two years would be in the spirit o f our International
Health Partnershipcommitment to predictable and sustained aidto the health sector.

17. Given MOHP priorities, the funding will be used to scale up and improve mother
and child health services and communicable disease control, targeting the poor and
socially excluded. It will also be used to promote public-private partnerships and build
management capacity.

111.ProposedChanges

18. The additional financing will support further investment in the eight initially
planned output areas, without any change in the Program Development Objectives or
design. Selected priority activities will be expanded to increase the availability o f
essential health care services, ensuring increased access for the disadvantaged.             The
additional financing i s also an opportunity to accelerate investment in key stewardship
functions such as monitoring and evaluation, as well as accountability and transparency
in the sector.    Progress on these fronts will build confidence across the board and
facilitate Nepal inmobilizing stakeholders and ultimately resources in the context o f the
next phase o f the Nepal Health Sector Program due to start in 2010 (NHSP-11). Box 1
below indicates the lines along which specific activities will be enhanced; progress to
date, detailed revised milestones, andnew targets are detailed inAnnex 1@p. 12).




 Annex 4, pp. 30 presents more details about NHSP expenditure and financing plan.



                                              - 6 -

       Box 1:EnhancedActivities inselected Output Areas of the NepalHealthSector Program

The additional financing seeks to achieve (i)      enhanced availability o f and access to essential services
supported by expanded activities in Public Private Partnerships, human resources management, and
logistics; and (ii)rapid progress on key stewardship functions such as monitoring and evaluation,
accountability and transparency. The eight output areas will continue to be financed and monitored as
originally planned.

Inessentialhealthcare services (output l), will scale up interventionspresently implemented in
                                                 MOHP
selected districts, e.g., community-based integrated management o f childhood illnesses, obstetric care, and
the prevention and treatment o f uterine prolapse (prevalent among the poorest women). A neo-natal health
plan will be introduced initially in 10 districts, 7 o f which with low human development index. T o address
malnutrition among children under 2 years o f age, MOHP will carry out pilot interventions inthree districts
and evaluate these for scaling up under NHSP-11. Incommunicable disease control, the control o f Japanese
Encephalitis and Leishmaniasis7 will be expanded and the health system's response to HIViAIDS
strengthened.

T o improve the use of essential services by the disadvantaged, two recent initiatives are expected to
benefit the poor: the removal o f some user fees and the introduction o f the Safe Delivery Incentive
Program, a conditional cash incentive to increase institutional deliveries and health professional attendance.
MOHP will strengthen the implementation and monitoring o f these policies and ensure that (i)      conditions
are in place for the system to be able to meet increased demand and (ii)         these policies translate into
increased access for and service use by the poor and socially-excluded groups. For example, human
resources for maternal health will be deployed as a priority to increase skilled birthattendance (output
7), and the availability of essential drugs in public health facilities will be ensured through adequate
procurement and effective logistics management (output 6). Additional output-level indicators have been
includedto assess implementation, and progress on Program Development Objectives will be monitored for
the bottom income quintile o f the population (Section VI).

Public PrivatePartnerships (output 3) contribute substantially to improving the availability, quality and
access to health services inNepal, but a systematic PPP strategy i s needed and the dialogue with the private
sector needs to be better institutionalized. A Private Health Sector Assessment i s currently under way and
will be used to engage the private sector to achieve the essential services delivery targets, with a focus on
underserved areas. Inthe meantime, beginning FY2008/09 (i)        the Safe Delivery Incentive Program will be
open to women who choose to deliver inthe non-state sector with providers receiving incentives; (ii)    all the
ten medical colleges, all reputed non-state hospitals will be contracted to provide free surgical services for
uterine prolapse; by the Program end in July 2010, at least 50 districts will be covered with these services;
(iii) contracts will be signed with non-state hospitals/clinics in 5 districts to provide comprehensive
Zmergency obstetric care to women who require these services (a third o f the expansion planned inthe next
two years).

Monitoring and evaluation will be improved through the use of additional surveys (output S), as well as
governance and accountability at the sector level (See Annex 3). Lastly, building on the agenda described
ibove, and other elements o f the sector program, M O H P will elaborate the NHSP-I1 strategy in
:onsultation with all stakeholders (output 4).

19. Institutional arrangements for financial management and disbursement will
remain unchanged, andimplementation o f the FMImprovement Action Plan (pp.21) Will
be effectively monitored.

20.    Procurementprocedures, as perPublic Procurement Act andrelated Regulationsof
2007, will apply to all procurement except for all International Competitive Bidding for



7Leishmaniasis or Kala-azar: A chronic and potentially fatal parasitic disease of the viscera.



                                                    - 7 -

which the provisions o fthe World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRDLoans
andIDA Credits (May 2004, revisedOctober 2006) will apply.

21.   A sector-specific    Governance and Accountability Action Plan will be
implemented; details are inAnnex 3 (pp. 25). As a result o f all these efforts, supervision
will be strengthened (Annex 5), making use of the information generated (Table 10:
Supervision, Monitoring andEvaluation Tools and Timeline).

22. ClosingDate: With an extension o fone year, the NepalHealthSector Programwill
end on July 15,2010.

IV. Consistencywith the 2007 InterimStrategyNote

23.   Additional Financing for the Health Sector Program supports the strategy
articulated inthe World Bank 2007 InterimStrategy Note. Inthe current country context,
the strategy seeks to protect the reforms already implemented. This health SWAP
consolidated fragmented country and donor-supported efforts into one coherent national
health sector strategy, and successfully increased public expenditure effectiveness by
emphasizing basic health services. It also initiated decentralizatiodde-concentration o f
management authority to the field level andpromoted Public Private Partnerships (PPPs).
Although emphasis on the inclusion agenda has been limited, the Program did expand
access to and use o f essential health care services across the board. It will be important to
protect the SWAP and essential services if the transition i s stalled, and these reforms,
along with decentralization, PPPs and efforts towards inclusion, would need to be
accelerated inthe transition towards a post-conflict economic program.

24.    The Interim Strategy Note highlights three additional elements which should be
woven into a post-conflict program: (i)"state building, and implementation through
existing public sector": (ii)   "genuine partnerships between the public sector and the
private sector/communities";     and (iii)"rapid impact       ... through improved public
services". The Program contributes to strengthening the public sector by using country
systems for disbursement and implementation. PPPs are one o f the eight key Program
outputs and the additional financing seeks to specifically promote these partnerships
through contracting private sector and NGO providers. Improving public services has
beena key Program priority, and the Program has a sound track record o f expanded and
strengthened service delivery. Lastly, the additional financing will strengthen social
service delivery thereby helping cement the peace process and delivering peace
dividends. The provision o f additional financing for Nepal Health Sector Program i s
clearly inline with the Bank's interimstrategy.

V. Appraisalof Scaled-UpProjectActivities

25.  The economic analysis o f the original project examined the government's
commitment to the health sector and the financial sustainability o f increased public
expenditure. It also reviewed the cost-effectiveness o f interventions planned under the
Nepal Health Sector Program, and the rationale for the public sector to support their
provision. Onthe first set o f aspects, Nepal has significantly increased its commitment to
funding health during the Program and the three year interim plan confirms that health
remains a priority. By FY2009/10, the Medium Term ExpenditureFramework suggests



                                            - 8 -

that the health sector allocation will have doubled compared with its FY200Y06 level
(from NPR7.6 billion to NPR13.9 billion), a reasonable target given the steady increase
inthe sectors absorption capacity (from 73% inFY2003/04 to 81% inFY2006/07). The
Program's continued focus on the provision o f cost-effective essential health services and
the increased emphasis on improving access for the poor, ensure the program remains
economicallyjustified.

VI. SafeguardsandBankPolicies

26. The activities to be financed under the additional grant do not trigger any additional
safeguard policies and do not require any exceptions to Bank policies. MOHP has
nominated a nodal officer to implement the Health Care Waste Management Plan and
another nodal officer to implement the Vulnerable Communities DevelopmentPlan. It i s
providing specific annual budgets for the safeguard activities under the sector program.

VII. ExpectedOutcomes

27. Higher targets have been set for the extended and expanded Nepal Health Sector
Program. The contraceptive prevalence rate and immunization coverage will increase
beyond the initially planned levels. Specific targets have been set for the poor and their
achievement will bring them closer to the population average (Table 1). Comparison o f
the Health Management Information System (HMIS) data with the results o f Nepal
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) suggests that the former are broadly accurate and
sufficient to monitor year to year progress. The HMIS however does not disaggregate
information by income level, and household surveys are required. The next DHS,
tentatively planned for 2011, will be used to measure Program achievement when the
data become available. Table 3 provides specific indicators that will be used to monitor
inclusion on a regular basis (pp. 13).



                                     Baseline    Achievement  Initial PDO    New PDO
OverallResultsIndicators             (DHS        in2006 (DHS) target for     target for
                                     2001)                    June 2009      June 2010
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate,       35.4        44.2         47*            48
modern method (%)*
Lowest income quintile              I23.8       [30.3                       I35

Lowest income quintile              I3.6        I4.8                        I10

Lowest income quintile DPT-3         62.1        75.2                        80
% childrenimmunized against measles  70.6        85           85             88
% Populationwith the knowledge of    F:37.6      F: 58.3      75             F: 75
one correct method ofpreventing HIV  M:50.8      M:81.1       85             M:85
infection



VIII. BenefitsandRisks

28. The additional financing will support the on-going reforms in the health sector and
contribute to faster expansion of access to and use o f essential health care services,


                                           - 9 -

especially for the underserved populations. By the program end, the entire country would
be covered by key reproductive and child health services and, as needed, by the
communicable disease control interventions. The health systemwill be strengthened with
an emphasis on monitoring and evaluation, physical assets management and human
resource development.           The investment will help Nepal sustain its impressive
achievement inhealth outcomes andprogress towards achieving the key MDGs.

29. Political instability tends to slow down decision making and implementation. This
poses some risk to the sector program implementation. Yet, progress has been achieved
inthe health sector even duringthe conflict. The following eight keyrisks are identified
for the scaled-up activities under the additional financing and these risks need to be
addressed. The overall marginal risk assessment is judged to be Modest. The potential
risks, measures for mitigating them and risk ratings are givenbelow inTable 2.

                        Table 2: Risks,Ratings and MitigationMeasures

              Risk               Risk                  RiskMitigation Measures                Residual
                                 Rating                                                        Risk
1.Continuing instability and     S      Health care i s a basic need o f all citizens; the   M
social unrest                           renewed focus o n delivery for excluded groups
                                        should mitigate this risk.
2. Discontinuation o fpolicies   M      Policies developed through wide participation; and   M
by the new government                   increased stakeholders' participation in
coming inafter the elections            implementation reviews.
3. Weak implementation           S      A systematic capacity development programis part     M
capacity within MOHP                    o fthe Program and a technical assistance unit is in
                                        dace inMOHP.
4. Fraud and Corruption          H      Posting o f procurement plan on MOHP's website;       S
indicators: L o w transparency          inclusion o f independent members inBid Evaluation
inprocurement                           Committees; and Procurement Audit and regular Post
                                        Procurement Reviews conducted.
5. Inadequate internal financial S      Implementationo fFMImprovement Action Plan;          M
controls andpoor timeliness             posting o f annual financial information and audit
and quality o f audit reports           reports o n MOHP's website; and Performance Audit
                                        conducted.
6. Informalprovider payments     H      Two service delivery surveys will provide             S
bypoor despite introductiono f          information o n informal payments; repeated
free basic services                     dissemination o f results will help deter informal
                                        payments; and specific communication strategy
                                        aimed at clients and providers will informthem o f
                                        their rights and obligations.
7. Dependence on single          S      A Demographic andHealthSurvey in2011to               M
source o f information and              measure health outcomes and two service delivery
inadequate systems to track             surveys, in2008 and 2010, will provide independent
physical assets and progress            information o n program implementation.
8. Vast number o f construction  H      MOHP will involve local communities by                S
sites, works and services not           constituting local committees to supervise health
amenable to regular                     facility construction, and Bank/donors will
supervision                             commission a thirdparty post supply, installation and
                                        completion inspection o f a random sample o f
                                        equipment and civil works for quantity, quality,
                                        completeness and use, and GON will act on findings.
RiskRating: H(High); S (Substantial); M Modest); andN(Negligible).


                                              - 10-

IX. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing
30. The additional financing will be on IDA grant terms, instead o f the mix of IDA
grant and credit terms applicable to the original operation. The terms and conditions for
the Grant will be standard.




                                        - 11-

                                                                                 Annex 1

                        EnhancedResultsinSelected OutputAreas
                      Additional Financing for Health Sector Program

The Nepal Health Sector Program (NHSP) mid-termreview concluded that the program
objectives, components and the eight initial output areas remain relevant though some
milestones need to be revised to reflect contextual changes such as the renewed focus on
inclusion and the removal o f user fees. Also the indicators need to be revisedto reflect
the targets for the extended one year period.

The following Table 3 presents NHSP progress to date. It also includes targets for key
activities which will be used to measure progress during the Joint Annual Reviews
(JARS).Further it includes Nepal's health outcome targets (followed by a "*"), though it
will not be possible to monitor these yearly. Where possible, baseline data is provided
and/or the data source and collection methods are identified. For instance, data generated
by the "Periodic Pro-poor Policy Monitoring System", currently being developedby the
MOHP using TA, will be used to assess the results o f the removal o f user fees. Other
important data sources will be the 2008 and 2010 Service Delivery Surveys (SDSs) and
the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), planned for 2011, which will confirm
NHSP's achievements andprovide a baseline for NHSP-11.




                                         -12-


    e,
   YE!  8E!




4


s
P
$
h


                                                                                         Annex 2
                            FinancialManagementRiskAssessment
                          Additional Financing for Health Sector Promam


Adequacy of FinancialManagement (FM) Arrangements: The World Bank commissioned a
detailed financial management review o f the Nepal Health Sector Program (NHSP) for
FY2004/05 and FY2005/06. Based on it, a Financial Management Improvement Action Plan
(FMIAP) was agreed upon inthe Joint Annual Review (JAR) of NHSP inJune 2007. The
FMIAP outlines six areas where results are expected: (a) developing performance based
planning and budgeting system; (b) improving the fund flow system; (c) timely submission o f
Implementation Progress Reports (IPR) that includes Financial Monitoring Report (FMR); (d)
strengthening financial information, monitoring and feedback system; (e) improving quality o f
assets management; and (f) preparing capacity development plan in financial management.
The December 2007 mid-term review observed very little progress inthese areas, and the
agreed time-line were revised. All External Development Partners (EDPs) strongly
emphasized the need to improve financial management and MOHP subsequently gave the issue
highpriority. A committee, chaired by the Joint Secretary of MOHP with participation from
all Divisions, now regularly monitors the implementation of the action plan.
An assessment o f FMIAP implementation at the end o f February 2008 showed significant
progress on initial actions but the achievement o f the intended results will require some time. A
revised time line has been agreed to ensure that most actions are completed by June 2008.
Already, the IPR backlog has been cleared. Un-audited accounts for FY2006/07 have been
received on time. There are no outstanding audit reports or significant audit issues; the action
plan has addressed the deficiencies observed in audit reports, but internal control and asset
management will need to further improve over time. A consulting firm, RTI, funded by DFID
TA is providing technical support inimplementingthe FMIAP.

The FM risk currently remains "SubstantiaZ", and the FM performance rating "Moderately
Unsatisfactory". These ratings will be assessed during the June 2008 JAR and could potentially
improve if progress i s sustained. The seriousness demonstrated by MOHP provides adequate
assurancesthat the FMIAPplan will indeed be implemented and gradually lead to improvements
inallthe six keyresults areas.

Table 4 (pp.21) presents the FMIAP and progress to date and Table 5 (pp.24) provides the FM
RiskRating Summary.

Disbursements:IDAdisbursements as ofMid-March2008 under the ongoingHealth Sector
Program are US$33.83 million or 83% o f the total grant allocation o fUS$40.0 million, and no
funds have yet beendisbursed under the credit allocation o fUS$lO.O million. However, the
thirdtrimester report for FY2006/07 hasbeen cleared andthe remainingbalance of grant
allocation bybe disbursedwithin two weeks, as well as about US$3.5 million from the credit
allocation. The remaining amount under the credit i s expected to be fully disbursedduring
FY2007/08, leavingno IDA funds for the last year o fNHSP. IDAresources were usedfaster
than initially anticipated not only because implementation was rapidbut also becauseDFID,
IDA'Spooling partner, was able to meet only apart ofits commitment to the poolfunds during


                                             -18-

the first two years. DFID started to gradually pick up its share from the thirdyear o f
implementation andwill have fully met its initial commitment bythe end o f year 5. Further, it
has increased its contribution to the expanded program.

Studies undertaken to prepare the initial program showed that providing essential services over
five years would require at least US$650 million, and that total public health expenditure over
that period should be around US$850 million. Taking into account MOHP implementation
capacity and the context, the original target for the program was realistically set at US$498
million for five years, o f which GON was expected to finance US$286 million. By the end o f
the fourth fiscal year, NHSP will have consumed 85% o f the initially plannedprogram resources
and MOHP paid 90% o f its commitment (Annex 4 - Table 7, pp. 30). To m h e r enhance
activities and extend NHSP by one year, US$400million will be requiredfor the next two fiscal
years. This will bringthe NHSP total cost to US$823 million for six years, which remains below
the initially projectedrequirement for five years (Annex 4 -Table 8, pp. 31). At least half o f the
required amount will be borne by GON. IDA'Scontribution i s expected to be about US$50.0
million and DFID's contribution about US$34.0 million through the pool and US$ 25 million o f
TA and earmarked budget support.

Disbursements will continue to be report-based. The pooled partners will continue to disburse
their portion o f funds as determinedby the FMRs to the designated Foreign Exchange Accounts
maintained at the Nepal Rastra Bank.

External Audit: The Office o fthe Auditor General audits the accounts o fNHSP. There are no
pending audit reports. Issues raised byAuditors duringFY2005/06 audit include the need to
strengthen: i)the internal control system to reduce excessive advances, ii)asset management,
and iii)the monitoring systemto track clearances o f outstanding irregularities on time. These
issues were noted duringthe financial management review and incorporatedinto the FMIAP.
Although the Bank's policy requires audit reports to be submitted within six months, an
exceptionwas granted to submit the report within 12months on the grounds that the health
sector program covers the entire country. This was been agreed with the other EDPs and
reflected inthe Joint FinancingArrangement. The FY2005/06 audit was submittedwithin this
time frame. FY2006/07 unaudited accounts were submittedon time, andthe audited accounts
are expected within a 10 months' time frame. The following audit reports will be monitored in
the Audit ReportCompliance System(ARCS):


 Implementing               Audit                      Auditors
     Agency                                                                (with exception

                   NHSP Financial            Office o f the Auditor
                   Statements                General (OAG)               end o f each fiscal




                                              -19-

ImplementationProgress Report: Since the beginningo fNHSP, the submission oftrimester
IPRshas always been delayed by 3 to 6 months, which has slowed fundrelease from the pooled
partners. The thirdtrimester IPRo fFY2006/07 which was due onAugust 31,2007 was
submitted on February 14,2008; the first trimester report o f FY2007/08, due on December31,
2007 was submitted on March 7,2008. Actions which support the timely submission ofthese
reports are at the core of the FMIAP,whose implementation has beeninitiated. The backlog has
been cleared and there are currently no pending reports. Generally reports have been o f
acceptable quality; the current processes and financial reports are adequate.

PerformanceAudit: The Joint FinancingArrangement signedbyPooledPartners and the GON
provided for a Performance Audit o fNHSP implementation, which still has to be carried out.
The MID-TERMREVIEW recommended that the process be initiated as early as possible.
MOHP subsequently submitteda request to the Office ofthe Auditor General andthe
performance audit is now scheduledto take place inFY2008/09. GON, PooledPartners and
OAGwill agree onthe Terms ofReference andits recommendations will help improve the
overall performance o fthe health sector service delivery. The Government ofNepal will make
necessary resources available to the Auditor General to carry out the performance audit.

DisclosureofInformationand CorporateGovernance:With the recent enactment ofthe
Rightsto InformationAct, 2007, disclosure requirements under NHSP are enhanced and key
information shouldbe readily available to the public. NHSP will post on its website all available
guidelines, procedures, and other key information related to NHSP. MOHP has specifically
agreed to disclose the following on its website: Overall Sector Budget, Allocation byActivity
andBudgetLine, Procurement Plan; Procurement Complaints Mechanism; Trimester
ImplementationProgress Reports (approved versions); Invitation for Expressiono f Interest, Bid
Documents, Requests for Proposals, Minutes o fPre-bidConferences, Contract Awards; and
Annual AuditedFinancial Statements.

Supervision:Inclose cooperation, thepooledpartners will follow up on the implementationo f
the agreed FMIAP. The next JAR will also review its implementation. At that time, the FM
performance rating and the FMriskratingwill be reassessed. Ifsatisfactory results are observed,
these ratings could potentially beupgraded. As project implementation moves forward, desk
reviews o f internal and external audit reports will be conducted. A follow-up FMreviewwill
also be carried out duringnext fiscal year to determine the impact o fthe implementation o fthe
agreed FMIAP.




                                              - 20 -

3




3

             W
             0
             0
             N    W
                  0
     8       h
             3
                  h




      5
      8




                       I
                       N
                       N
                       I




       0
       U




            3



 c
 0




m

   00    8              00
                 0
                 0W

  0
  0      P              0
                        0
                               01
  N      E       N      c\1   0
                  i3
  h3     88.03   h     h3




                                     I
                                     m
                                     N
                                     I




CI
z9
0




  n    12

I




t7    d
      N

                                                                                     Annex 3

                       GovernanceandAccountabilityActionPlan
                       Additional Financing for Health Sector Program


Context and GAAPElaboration:The wide-spread fraud and corruption (F&C)
indicators and implementation deficiencies found by the recent India health sector
Detailed Implementation Review(DIR) have highlightedthe importance o fplanning anti-
corruption measures as part o fprogram preparation and implementation. The Nepal
Health Sector Program (NHSP) i s sector-wide program which covers large scale
procurement o f goods, works and services including some decentralizedprocurement.
NHSP also involves flow o f funds to, and their use at, over 350 cost centers across the
country. As such, and also becauseo f recognizedlimitations inthe public sector
capacity, it is vulnerable to F&C.

MOHP is aware o f low procurement and FMcapacities and weak internal controls,
particularly at the field level, and has already initiatedprocurement and FMtraining o f its
concerned field staff. The additional financing represents an important opportunity to
further strengthen fiduciary systems. Inaddition to the activities described elsewhere',
this Governance andAccountability Action Plan (GAAP) seeks to address abroader
range o f potential F&C issues inthe health sector. It was preparedjointly with the
MOHP, taking into account the design features and fiduciary arrangements o f the sector
program, and formally agreed for implementationwith MOHP. This first GAAP for the
Nepal health sector i s meant to be a live document. Itwill be improved based on
implementation experience and the findings of the various reviews and surveys planned
under it.

GAAPObjectiveand Content:The GAAP seeks to (i)              strengthen fiduciary systems; (ii)
increase transparency inprocurement and financial management; (iii)       increase
accountability to the community; (iv) encourage the use o f independent and multiple
sources o f information; (v) strengthen supervision; and (vi) use the substantial donor
financial and technical resources to strengthen and promote accountability inthe health
sector.

To reduce the potential for F&C, GON and IDA have agreed on a timeline for a series o f
actions to improve (i)  Procurement; (ii)  Financial Management; (iii) Contracting;
                                                                         NGO
and (iv) Monitoringand Evaluation. These are presented inthe following Table 6.

IDAhasbeenfinancing 10%to 12%ofMOHP's annualexpenditure and, bypreparing
this GAAP inthe context ofthe proposed additional financing, is leveraging its
contribution for a larger impact. Improvements expected from the GAAP implementation
will apply to the entire health sector. While the ultimate objective i s to benefit the people
o f Nepal, MOHP will also more directly benefit as increased confidence inthe system
may lead donors to increase their contribution andor pool funds with the government for
NHSP-11.




* Paragraph 12-13,pp.5 andAnnex 2.


                                            - 25 -

I    I  I    I   I

     W
o\   9
0         n
0    c0o r0
N    0 0
     N N




I     I

c




m    d




I   I     I    I  I




      a8

                m
                N



I I   I  I




           s

                                                                                                                 Annex 4
                                                    FinancingPlan
                             Additional Financing for Health Sector Program

The following provides background information on the Nepal Health Sector Program
(NHSP) financing to date, compares the current situation with the initial plan and
presents, looking forward, the financing plan o f the enhanced and extended NHSP. Since
this is a SWAP, the additional financing supports the entire health sector and disburses
against the entire program expenditure. It i s therefore not possible to outline what the
additional resources will specifically finance.
Table 7 provides background information about NHSP to date and sources o f funding. It
shows that:
   MOHP share inthe government budget has increased systematically and significantly
   over the years (it was actually fluctuating from year to year inthe previous period).
0  Budget execution has also increased over the years, a sign that management has
   improved (better planning and budgeting, increased capacity to implement what i s
   expected within the time frame).
   Interms ofsources of funds,pooledpartners have beencontributing between 15 and
   20% of actual expenditure.
   IDA has accounted for 60 to 80% of pool funding so far, or 12% of the total on
average against the anticipated rate o f 10% for each year. IDA funds were used faster
due to the implementation pace but also because DFID was unable to meet its
commitment ininitial years, though DFIDwill have made up for this by year 5 end.



                                                             2003104          2004105       2005106        2006107       2007108

 Plannedbudget                                                5,354            6,553         7,555           9,230        12,099
 Share of MOHP ingovernment budget (%)                         4.93             5.86         5.95             6.40         7.14




   Figures initalic are projections for FY2007/08, based onpastyears realization and plans.
   *Ministryof Health, except2003/04: Ministryof Finance The figure for 2007108is a slightly conservative estimatebasedonthe
   2006107 execution rate.




                                                         - 3 0 -

Table 8 compares the initial five-year planand the situation after four years. More than
85% of the resources have been absorbed; the government has already contributed 90%
o fwhat it had committed to NHSP and IDA 100%. This is a consequence o f a faster than
anticipated expansion of services: the NHSP implementationplantargeted 50% coverage
bythe endo fFY2006/07, whichhasbeen exceeded inmany areas andbasic services
havebeen added which were not initially envisaged.

            Table 8: NHSPInitialPlanandStatus after 4 Years (US$ million)




                  Sources: NHSP project appraisal document, and actual expenditure

Table 9 projects NHSP cost over six years, andoutlines the financing plan for the next
two years. Studies undertaken to prepare the initialprogramgshowed that providing
essential health care services (EHCS) over five years would require at least US$650
million, and that total public health expenditureover that period should be around
US$850 million. Taking into account MOHP implementation capacity and the context,
the original size for the programwas realistically set at US$498 million for five years.
To enhance the program and it by a year, US$400 millionwill be requiredfor the next
two fiscal years. This will bringthe NHSP total cost to US$823 millionfor six years,
which remains below the initiallyprojectedrequirement for five years.

              Table 9: EnhancedandExtendedNHSPFunding(US$ million)




                                                              Other EDPs (TBD)I
            * Assumption:FY2006/07 execution rate is used for FY2007/08
            +*of which 34 arepooledfunds.




  For a synthesis, see NHSP Implementation Plan 2004-2009, Ministryo f Health, October 2004, pp. 33-45.



                                                       - 3 1  -

                                                                                  Annex 5

                                      ProjectSupervision
                        Additional Financing for Health Sector Program


The following describes the current supervisionstrategy andhow it will be strengthened
to reflect the renewed focus on monitoring and evaluation as well as the governance and
accountability action plan.

CurrentSupervisionArrangements:Semiannual Joint Annual Reviews(JARs) are the
core of supervision o fthe sector-wide approach. The October/November JAR reviews
the performance o fthe previous fiscal year, and agrees with MOHP on measures to
address weaknesses and improve performance. The May/June JAR reviews andagrees on
the work plan, the budget andthe MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework for the
following year. JARs, which last one to two weeks, are organized and ledby the
Government incollaboration with EDPs and are assiduously attended by all parties.
Inaddition, on-going supervisionactivitiesbythe task teaminclude:


    0   Prior-review o fprocurement and o f implementation progress report, including
        financial management report, as per Finance Agreement;
    0   Monthly meetings on implementationo f FMImprovement Action Plan (with
        DFIDandinterestedparties);
    0   Health Sector Development Forum quarterly meetings;
    0   Follow-up on actions agreed with MOHP and other issues byrelevant staff based
        inKathmandu.

AdditionalEfforts:The projectpaper describes how supervision willbe strengthened,
particularly inthe areas o fprocurement and civil works andthorough the use o f
independent surveys to monitor various aspects o f implementation.
The following table pulls together the information contained inthe Comprehensive
Governance and Anti-Corruption Action Plan, the monitoring and evaluation framework
outlined inAnnex 1ofthe project paper andthe FinancialManagement RiskAssessment
inAnnex 2.
Activities are grouped under (i)   supervision andregular monitoring, (ii)procurement-
specific monitoring and (iii)   use o findependent surveys and evaluations. For each
activity, a time line i s given andthe JAR at which the producedinformation will be
discussed is marked. Inaddition, the table assigns responsibilities for ensuring that the
information is collected.




                                           - 32 -

m
m

                                                                                                                  Annex 6

                                                  Statementof Loans andCredits
                                      Nepal Health Sector Program Additional Financing


                                                                                                                       Difference between
                                                                                                                       expected and actual
                                                           Original Amount in US$Millions                                disbursements

Project   FY    Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.         Orig.       Frm.Rev'd
ID

P105860   2008  PAF I1                                     0.00    100.00      0.00     0.00    0.00  100.00         0.00              0.00
PO99296   2008  Irrigation&Water Rural                     0.00     50.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   50.00         0.00              0.00
PO95977   2008  RoadSector Development                     0.00     42.60      0.00     0.00    0.00   42.60         0.00              0.00
PI07558   2008  EducationForAll Additional Financing       0.00     60.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   60.00         0.00              0.00

PO90967   2007  SecondHigherEducation                      0.00     60.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   60.00         0.00              0.00
PI00342   2007  Avian InfluenzaControl                     0.00     18.20      0.00     0.00    0.00   17.00         -4.00             0.00
PO74633   2005  Educationfor All Project                   0.00    110.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   72.30         0.00              0.00

PO93294   2005  NP. Economic ReformTA                      0.00      3.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    1.60          5.00             0.00
PO40613   2005  NepalHealthSector ProgramProject           0.00     50.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   18.20         0.00              0.00

PO83923   2005  RuralAccess Improve.&                      0.00     32.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   27.30          9.00             0.00
PO84219   2004  Decentralization                           0.00     75.50      0.00     0.00    0.00   20.50        29.00              0.00
                NP Fin Sector Restructuring (Phase11)

PO81968   2004  PovertyAlleviation Fund                    0.00     40.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   15.90         0.00              0.00

PO71285   2004  RuralWater Supply & Sanitation             0.00     25.30      0.00     0.00    0.00    8.70         -5.00             0.00
                Project

PO71291   2003  NP FinancialSectorTechnical                0.00      16.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   7.90         28.00              0.00
                Assistance

PO43311   2003  POWERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT                    0.00     74.80      0.00     0.00    0.00   68.60        37.00              0.00

PO82646   2003  CommunitySchool Support Project            0.00      5.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   3.77          0.00              0.00

PO50671   2002  NP: TelecommunicationsSector               0.00     20.40      0.00     0.00    0.00   8.70         41.00              0.00
                Reform

                                                Total      0 00   782.80       0.00     0.00    0.00                                   0.00



                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                 Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                IFC                                    IFC
        FY Approval    Company                     Loan        Equity     Quasi       Partic. Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic.
        1996198        BhoteKoshi                   1.89         0.00       0.00       0.00     1.89    0.00      0.00        0.00
        1994           Himal Power                 21.47         0.00       2.92       0.00    21.47    0.00      2.92        0.00
        2001           ILFC Nepal
                            -                      0.00          0.30       0.00       0.00     0.00    0.30      0.00        0.00
        1998           JomsomResort                4.00          0.00       0.00       0.00     4.00    0.00      0.00        0.00
                                  Total portfolio:   27.36       0.30       2.92       0.00    27.36    0.30      2.92        0.00


                                                                              Approvals Pending Commitment
                        FY Approval    Company                            Loan        Equity     Quasi     Partic.


                                             Totalpendingcommitment:       0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00



                                                                   - 34 -

                                                                                                                                  Annex 7
                                                            Nepal at a Glance
                                       Nepal Health Sector Program Additional Financing

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   South        Low-
                                                            Nepal     Asia Income           Development diamond`
2005
Population, mid-year (millions)
GNl per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                           27.1       1,470      2,353                     Life expectancy
GNl (Atlas method, US$ billions)                            270          684        580
                                                               7.3     1,005      1,364
Average annual growth, 1999-05                                                                                     T
Population (%)
Labor force (%)                                             2.1                   1.9       GNI                                        Gross
 Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 1999-05)      2.7                   2.3       Per                                       primaty
Poverty(% of population below national poverty line)                                        capita                                enrollment
Urban population (% of total population)                      31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                               16
lnfant mortality (per 1.000live births)                                     2       30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                          59
Access to an improvedwatersource (% of population)            8
                                                              62                    80
Literacy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                                   39             Access to improved water source
Grossprimary enrollment(% of school-age population)                         6
                                                              3                     75
   Male                                                       59                    62
  Female                                                                    6       104      -Nepal                  Low-income group
                                                              6                     110
                                                              48                    99

 KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1985      1995     2004       2005
 GDP (US$ bilions)                                  2.6      4.4        6.7       7.3
 Gross capital formation/GDP                        22.6     25.2      26.5       25.7
 Exports of goods and servicedGDP                   11.5     25.0      17.6       16.1
 Gross domestic savingdGDP                          14.1      15.7     13.6       12.5
 Gross national savingdGDP                          15.8     23.0      30.3       31.3
 Currentaccountbalance/GDP                                   -2.3       3.0       5.5
 lnterest paymentdGDP                               -6.5     0.7       0.4
 Total debVGDP                                      0.3      55.2      49.9
 Total debt service/exports                         22.5     6.9       5.6
 Present value of debVGDP                           8.0                33.0
 Present valueof debvexports                                           107.4



                                                             2004
 (averageannualgrowth)                 1985-95 1995-05                 2005 2005-09

 GDP                                       5.0        3.8    3.4       2.3        3.3
 GDPper capita                             2.5        1.5     1.3      0.3        1.9
 Exportsof goods and services


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)                                           1985   1995       2004       2005

Agriculture
lndustry                                            51.7     41.8       39.9
  Manufacturing                                     15.1     22.8       21.7
Services                                            5.7      9.5         8.0
                                                    33.2     35.5       38.4
Household final consumption expenditure
Generalgovt final consumptionexpenditure            76.5     75.1       75.2       76.0
lmports of goods and services                       9.4      9.2
                                                    20.0     34.5       11.2       11.5
                                                                        30.6       29.3



(average annual growth)                          1985-95 4995-05       200A       2005

Agriculture                                           3.0      3.4       3.9        3.0
lndustry                                              7.9      3.7       1.0        1.4
  Manufacturing                                       9.7      2.6       1,7        2.6
Services                                              6.0      4.0       3.9        2.0

Household final consumption expenditure
Generalgovt final consumptionexpenditure
Gross capital formation
lmpork of goods and services

Note: 2005 data are preliminary estimates.


 The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin thecountry (inbold)comparedwithits income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamond willbe
  incomplete.

                                                                 - 35 -

                                                              __   -                                              Nepal
                                                   ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1985     1995      2004  2005
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             8.1       7.6       2.8
ImplicitGDP deflator                       11.4       6.5       5.0   4.6

Governmentfinance
("A of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                             8.4      11.2      14.5  15.4
Current budget balance                     -1.4       1.5       3.3   3.7
Overall surplusldeficit                    -9.6      -3.7      -1.o  -0.5

TRADE
                                           1985     1995      2004   2005
(US$milions)
Total exports (fob)                         130      659       748    826
 Food and live animals                                154        86    90
 Animal and vegetable oils                             32       46     68
 Manufactures                                         47        528   579
Total imports (cif)                         403     1,277     1,801 1,806
 Food                                        55       156        81    72
 Fueland energy                              51        94       273   370
 Capitalgoods                                94       259       233   250

Exportprice index (2000=100j
Import price index (2000=100)
Terms of trade (2000=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1985     1995      2004   2005
(US$ milions)
Exportsof goods and services                284     1,099     1,214 1,185
Importsof goods and services                499     1,519     2,142 2,159
Resourcebalance                            -215     -420      -928   -974

Net income                                    2         5       -23    24
Net current transfers                        44       314     1,151 1,354

Currentaccount balance                     -170     -100        200   405

Financingitems (net)                        121       110        35  -336
Changesin net reserves                       49       -10     -235    -68

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)         61       709     1,478 1,546
Conversionrate (DEC, loca//US$J            17.8      50.0      73.8  72.2

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                         I
                                           1985     1995      2004   2005
(US$ mtbons)                                                               Composition of 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstandingand disbursed         590     2,418     3,354
 IBRD                                         0         0         0     0
 IDA                                        236     1,023     1,491 1,396

Total debt service                           23        85       114
 IBRD                                         0         0         0     0
 IDA                                          2        14        38    42

Compositionof net resourceflows
 Official grants                             78       171       265
 Officialcreditors                           89       124        24
 Privatecreditors                             5        -5         0
 Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)       1         0         0
 Portfolioequity (net inflows)                0         0         0                                   c:22
World Bank program
 Commitments                                130         0       154        A iBRD
                                                                             -                              E Bilateral
                                                                                                               -
 Disbursements                               33        82        72    33  B - IDA   D -Other multilateral  F -Private
 Principalrepayments                          0         7        27    30  C iMF
                                                                             -                              G Short-term
                                                                                                               -
 Net flows                                   33        75       45      3
 Interest payments                            2         8        11    12
 Net transfers                               31        67        34    -9




                                                        - 36 -

