Docmxnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMClAL USE ONLY
RePort No.13219
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1681-CA)
JUNE 27, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit               CFA Franc (CFAF)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1986         US$1.00                     CFAF 323
1987         US$1.00               =     CFAF 267
1988         US$1.00                     CFAF 303
1989         US$1.00               =     CFAF 289
1990         US$1.00                      CFAF 280
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANDE          Agence nationale pour le developpement de l'elevage
FNEC          Federation nationale des eleveurs centrafricains
EDF           European Development Fund
FAC           Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
GIP           Groupement d'interet pastoral
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offi of Diraat@r-Grwal
Opmetiorw Evakluon
June 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTWIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Central African Republic
National Livestock Project (Credit 1681-CA!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Central African Republic-National Livestock
Project (Credit 1681-CA) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. There is no Part II. The quality
of the report is satisfactory given the lack of field data.
The project achieved its main objective of strengthening the privately run National Federation
of Herders' Associations (FNEC) to deliver animal health and production inputs to pastoralists, and
to train them successfully in the application of animal care practices. The additional training provided
to selected herder representatives is a first step towards ensuring that herders' associations will
continue to develop into a strong and viable system. A secondary objective was to strengthen the
Government run Livestock Service (IS) to carry out applied veterinary research and diagnosis for
extension purposes. LS staff were trained but the extension packages they were asked to prepare
were often not adapted to sedentary herding. The LS is underfunded in relation to its assigned tasks
and can not be sustained without an increased budget. The Borrower never clarified the respective
roles of FNEC and LS, interfered in the management of FNEC, and was unwilling to accept the
emergence of FNEC as an independent, autonomous entity.
Even though the impact of the Government extension services was limited, the project
succeeded in strengthening the FNEC, and effectively delivering veterinary inputs. The outcome of
the project therefore is rated as satisfactory. The sustainability is rated as uncertain, and institutional
development as modest.
An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H.Eberhard Kdpp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Credit 1681-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .....           ................ 1
A.    Project Identity ...........................................1
B.    Background  ...........................................1
C.    Project Objectives and Description . ........................  2
D.    Project Design and Organization  ...........     .............  2
E.    Project Implementation  ........................  4
F.    Project Results  ........................  5
G.    Project Sustainability  ........................  8
H.    Bank's Performance ........................  8
I.    Borrower's Performance  ........................  9
J.    Project Relationships  ........................  9
K.    Consulting Services  ........................  9
L.    Project Documentation and Data  ...........      ............. 10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.          Related Bank Credits   ............             ............ 11
2.          Project Timetable ........................ 12
3.          Credit Disbursement ........................ 13
4.          Project Implementation  ........................ 14
5.          Project Costs and Financing  ........      ................ 16
6.          Project Results  ........................ 17
7.          Status of Covenants  ........................ 18
8.          Use of Bank Resources ........................ 23
A.    Staff Inputs  ........................ 23
B.    Missions  ........................ 24
Documents Consulted .............. 25
MAPS
IBRD 19233
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Credit 1681-CA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Livestock Project, for
which Credit 1681-CA in the amount of SDR 10.3 millions was approved on April 15 1986. The
Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, on schedule. The IDA Credit was fully disbursed. The last
disbursement was made in September 1992.
Parts I and III were prepared by a consultant after a field mission and revised by staff
of the Agricultural Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department. Part II, to
be prepared by the Borrower, has not been received.
The PCR was prepared within six months after the Credit was closed. It is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement; the FAC Project
Agreement; the IFAD Loan Agreement; the EDF Project Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank, the Borrower and the implementation agency; internal Bank
memoranda; reports prepared by the implementation agency; discussions with representatives of the
Bank, the Borrower and the co-financing agencies; the mid-term evaluation report; and various
reports by consultants. A more exhaustive list of the documents consulted is given in Annex I.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Credit 1681-CA)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives (Part I, para. 3)
1.    The principal objective of the project was to develop a viable and sustainable institutional
framework for the livestock sub-sector that could effectively deliver animal and production inputs as
well as technical advice to all livestock producers to increase their production and improve their
standard of living. The main components were: (i) the strengthening of the capacity of the National
Herders's Association (FNEC) to distribute inputs and the organization and training of herders; (ii)
the strengthening of the livestock service in extension and research; (iii) the rehabilitation of feeder
roads; and (iv) the reinforcement of the management capabilities of the project management unit.
ProJect Design (Part I, para. 4)
2.    The project design resulted from a thorough and systematic preparation based on a good
collaboration between the Bank, the Borrower and other donors. It relied also on the lessons learned
from previous livestock projects in the Central African Republic and elsewhere in Africa, namely in
Senegal and Zaire.
3.    The project concept, however, did not reflect the broad Government strategy to develop
integrated rural development projects and failed to take into account some of the findings of the socio-
economic study commissioned as part of the preparation effort. The project concept and design did
not provide an adequate mechanism to resolve institutional issues concerning the status of FNEC and
its relationship with the Government.
Implementation Experience (Part I, para. 5)
4.    Implementation experience was generally satisfactory. The Credit became effective on
schedule and the original closing date was maintained. Most components were successfully
implemented. However, the strengthening of the project implementation agencies in financial
management was admittedly deficient as well as the implementation of the pastoral development
component. As a result, accounts have not been kept properly.
Results (Part I, para. 6)
5.    Broadly speaking, the project did achieve its major objective of laying the foundations for the
establishment of a strong, private livestock herders' organization to deliver inputs to its members.
This fact is unique in Africa. Government extension services and the FNEC have provided advice to
herders, the former mainly to sedentarized herders, the latter to transhumant herders. Some of the
Government extension advice proved hard to adapt to the actual needs of the beneficiaries. Herder
training in veterinary drug use was provided by FNEC and remains a major achievement of the
project.



- .11 -
6.     The input distribution system has been strengthened through the establishment of a central and
regional depots and the establishment and involvement of the newly created 147 herder associations at
the rural level. The training provided to selected herder representatives is a first step towards
ensuring that the herders' organization will continue to develop into a strong and viable institution.
The livestock development fund has been established and functioned well until the end of the project.
Since then, its resource base has decreased and its reserves have gradually disappeared.
7.     The staff of ANDE received adequate training while its technical services were strengthened
in the areas of extension activities, vaccinations and research. ANDE is more apt now to provide
meaningful assistance to the livestock herders, but has yet to perform at an optimal level.
8.     Pilot R-D activities were carried out successfully and should form a basis for future
development initiatives.
9.     Technical assistance in financial management was less successful than other lines of technical
assistance, and this may explain in part the weak performance of the project in this domain. Overall,
the project appears to have had a positive impact on livestock development and the institutions
involved.
Sustainability (Part I, para. 7)
10.    Despite the positive results of the project, which have improved the management capacity of
the institutions involved, there is still need for substantial training of both the ground-level
beneficiaries and the managers of their organizations until the sector can continue to develop without
requiring outside technical assistance. The drop in meat prices has also left the sector in a weakened
financial situation, requiring some degree of further financial assistance. The future growth of the
FNEC will depend on an increase in its membership. With low levels of income, such an increase
will require that the herders have full confidence in the management of the FNEC.
Bank performance (Part I, para. 8)
11.    Overall, the performance of the Bank has been satisfactory throughout all the phases of the
project cycle. One major weakness, however, was the failure to properly assess the changes
introduced by the government in the statutes of FNEC and clearly define the framework of its
relationship with Government. Another shortcoming was the lack of decisive action by the supervision
missions when they realized early on that the financial management of FNEC and ANDE was not up
to standards.
Borrower Performance (Part I, para. 9)
12.    Borrower performance has been generally satisfactory during the first four years of the
project. The Borrower worked hard to meet effectiveness conditions on time and worked closely with
the co-financiers to ensure adequate project implementation. However, it failed to ensure a sound
financial management of the project and did not properly monitor the judicious use of technical
assistance in some cases. Repeated attempts to interfere with the running of FNEC had a negative
impact on project implementation. The deterioration in project management observed after the
accident which kept the general manager of ANDE away for a period of eight months demonstrates
the acute shortage of competent staff in the sector's institutions.



- iv -
Comments on the Borrower's views (Part II)
13.           The Borrower's views have not yet been received.
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.           The major findings and lessons learned from the project are summarized below:
(a)    the input distribution system has been well established because herder associations
were created at the field level; this has made it possible for the herders to identify
with these associations and freely adhere to them; it was therefore the right decision to
use a bottom-up rather than a top-down approach;
(b)    the project's organizational structure was based on the good will expressed at the time
of appraisal by the Government not to interfere in the management of the herder
organizations; it therefore did not have in-built measures to avoid such interference
when changes occurred in the Government;
(c)    in the case of the Central African Republic, information now available based on socio-
economic studies and on the lessons learned elsewhere strongly suggest the need for a
broader-based project to respond to actual herder needs such as health services and
food crop development; it can be said with hindsight that such an approach could have
protected the poorer herders when a steep decline of more than 30% in cattle prices
occurred over the life of the project;
(d)    once supervision missions identified a serious lack of competence and, in the later
phases of the project, transparency in ANDE's book-keeping, a specialist should have
been commissioned to re-work all accounts before an audit was undertaken;
(e)    consistent with (d) above, the mere requirement of an audit of the project's accounts
was not sufficient to ensure that proper accounting methods and procedures be used or
even to draw meaningful conclusions from the poor data provided by the accounting
system; an audit comes too late to change the situation of a given year and does not
usually include appropriate corrective measures in terms of providing the needed
management assistance to a weak financial and accounting management team;
adequate measures should be adopted during the first few months of project
effectiveness and forceful but constructive measures taken very early to remedy
identified weaknesses;
(f)    no apparent effort was made to set up a project-specific monitoring and evaluation
mechanism despite the recognition that such a mechanism was necessary; however, a
strong statistical apparatus is available and operates on the basis of information
collected at the cattle markets; and
(g)    the funds collected by the FNEC from its members are really user fees, rather than
taxes, and should be labeled as such to avoid any confusion.






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
(Credit 1681-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name        National Livestock Project
Credit Number       1681-CA
RVP Unit            Africa Regional Office
Country             Central African Republic
Sector              Agriculture
Subsector           Livestock
2.   BACKGROUND
2.1    The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country of 623,000 km2 in the heart of
Africa. Its population is estimated at less than 3 million and increasing at an average annual rate of
2.5%. Density is close to 5 inhabitants per square kilometer. About 70% of the population is rural
with 12% engaged in livestock, mainly cattle, breeding. Most cattle is raised by the Fulani ethnic
group.
2.2    With a per capita income of US$380 in 1988, the CAR belongs to the group of the least
developed countries. Agriculture, including livestock and forestry, is the mainstay of the economy.
2.3    Despite favorable natural conditions and assistance from several external donors, agriculture
in the CAR remains essentially underdeveloped. Farming is predominantly done by shifting
cultivation on small plots with only rudimentary hand tools. Animal traction and draft cultivation are
practiced by only a small proportion of the farming population.
2.4    Livestock production has become important in recent years due mainly to a substantial
increase in cattle migration from the neighboring countries. Foreign herders, mainly from the Sahel,
were attracted by the substantial availability of grazing and surface water. It is believed that many of
them remained in the CAR. Livestock production systems are extensive (ow input) and the herders
are essentially of the nomadic type who seek to exploit the good forage potential of the savanna
resulting from the relatively good rainfall.
2.5    The abundance and general-under exploitation of natural resources conceal the fact that under
current utilization methods, the growth of human and livestock populations is likely to produce, in the
long run, pressure on land and a process of degradation that, while slow, could prove difficult to
reverse.
2.6    The Government's rural development strategy for the 1986-1990 five-year plan was based on
the following priorities: (a) development of the smallholder sector; (b) rehabilitation of area-based
rural development institutions; and (c) rehabilitation of export and food crop production and rural
infrastructure in an integrated rural development approach. Particular emphasis was put on the
reform of Government institutions to improve their relationship with the producers.



2.7   In the livestock subsector, the objectives sought were to increase livestock production and the
standard of living of the herders through improved animal health services and production extension.
Ecological concerns were to be addressed through the introduction of grazing schemes, albeit on a
pilot basis, to halt pasture degradation. Finally, another major objective was the institutional reform
through the strengthening of existing Government services and support of a larger role for the private
sector in the form of herder associations.
2.8    The first two livestock projects undertaken by the Government, one of which was supported
by IDA, were consistent with these objectives and with Bank policy for the development of the
livestock sector.
3.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1    Project Objectives. The project had one main objective: to develop a viable and sustainable
institutional framework for the livestock subsector that could effectively deliver animal health services
and production inputs, as well as technical advice to all livestock producers to increase their
production and improve their standard of living.
3.2    Project Description. To achieve these objectives, the project had the following components:
(a)    for the FNEC: (i) strengthening of its financial and administrative management; (ii)
expansion of its input distribution system; and (iii) staffing and equipping of a pastoral
organization and training department to form about 200 herder associations and train
their present and future leaders, auxiliaries and herders in general;
(b)   for the National Livestock Development Agency (ANDE): (i) restructuring of the
personnel and financial organization so that the ANDE can sustain its activities on a
long term basis; (ii) strengthening of the ANDE vaccination and extension capability;
(iii) establishment of a central veterinary diagnostic and livestock research laboratory;
(iv) strengthening of the department for pastoral settlement and to further the
development of the pilot settlement areas; and (v) establishment of a Livestock
Development Fund;
(c)    rehabilitation of about 600 km of feeder roads in areas of high livestock density; and,
(d)    reinforcement of local management capabilities by continuing to staff and equip a
small project management unit and a monitoring unit, and establishing a vehicle and
equipment maintenance unit.
4.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1    The project design was developed and evolved through appropriate collaboration and
coordination between IDA, the FAC and the EDF. To avoid any financing gap between the National
Livestock Project and its two predecessors in the Western and Central-Eastern regions, the project
was prepared and appraised with sufficient lead time to allow it to become effective without any
disruption of field activities. The study was financed by the donors under terms of reference reviewed
and cleared by all interested donors and the Government. To further deepen the available knowledge
on the cattle growing population and areas, a socio-economic study was done concurrently with the
feasibility study, under the financing of the then on-going Western Livestock Project.



4.2   Finally, the project concept and design sought to incorporate the lessons learned in the
implementation of the two previous projects and take into account the experience of similar projects in
Senegal (Senegal Livestock Project, Cr. 633-SE, and Eastern Rural Development Project, Cr. 1406-
SE) and Zaire (North East Rural Development Project, Cr. 1325-ZR) as appropriate.
4.3    However, despite all this thorough and careful preparation effort, the project as adopted had
some shortcomings:
(a)    although the socio-economic study commissioned to help in the design of the project
clearly revealed that close to 50% of all the herders in the project area, mainly the
poorer ones, were engaged in farming activities as a matter of necessity to limit food
expenditures (more than 40% of the family budget), the project failed to include a
food-crop component; contrary to the experience of the Zaire project, assistance for
food crop production was not included under the National Livestock Project, this
being left to an agricultural project to be separately developed;
(b)    although it was recognized that the most basic human health needs of the herders were
not met in most cases, no serious attempt was made to include a human health
component side by side with grass roots veterinary facilities;
(c)    although it was acknowledged that some 20% of livestock production comes from
small ruminants and poultry, the resources allocated for pilot activities in that area
may have been inadequate and did not take into account the manpower implications;
(d)    while the initial statutes of FNEC were appropriately designed, supervision missions
failed to recognize the increased potential for government involvement which resulted
from the 1988 change in these statutes, this until 1991, when further changes in that
direction were sought by government and rejected by the donors;
(e)    despite the development of an efficient data gathering system focusing on livestock
markets, no appropriate monitoring and evaluation component was designed or put in
place; and
(f)    despite an innovative design of the pastoral development activities and as a result of
diminished goverrment commitment, the component was hindered by slow procedures
in the allocation of land rights to the populations concerned and a lack of follow-up by
the technical support staff of ANDE.
The broadening of the project concept was rejected in order to reduce its complexity and concentrate
mainly on building up the FNEC. Further, the Government expressed only lukewarm support for a
rural development-type project despite its stated official policy.
4.4   The broad project organization and the division of responsibilities between ANDE and the
FNEC reflected the limited experience under the previous two livestock projects. Although the roles
assigned were apparently well defined and understood by both ANDE and the FNEC, many
shortcomings surfaced during implementation, creating strains and to an extent disrupting normal
project implementation. The most important shortcoming was the failure to clearly establish the
nature of FNEC, define its relationship with the Government and provide appropriate safeguards to
shield it from undue interference, such as through the establishment of direct disbursement procedures



- 4 -
to the FNEC. This has created the impression among herders that the FNEC is a State institution
rather than their own organization.
5.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up. The project was appraised in May/June 1985 on
schedule. The Credit was approved in April 1986, signed the same month and became effective in
August 1986, all these actions were on schedule. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1992 as
planned. However, effectiveness of the FAC and EDF financing was delayed because of a number of
issues that were still outstanding with these institutions at the time the IDA credit became effective.
5.2   In the FNEC activities, the expansion of input distribution and the establishment of herder
associations were done in a basically satisfactory manner. The strengthening of the FNEC's financial
and administrative management was not successful, at least until the last year of the project, when
some improvements were obtained.
5.3    Concerning the ANDE program, three of the five sub-components were implemented in a
satisfactory manner: (i) the strengthening of the vaccination and extension capability; (ii) the
establishment of a central veterinary diagnostic and livestock research laboratory; and (iii) the
establishment of the Livestock Development Fund. Personnel restructuring and financial organization
aspects, as well as the development of pastoral activities, met with less success.
5.4   Implementation of the infrastructure component was well done but the management
reinforcement component was only moderately well carried out.
5.5    The main factors responsible for the inadequate implementation results in some areas were: (i)
frequent interferences from the Government to resist or delay the personnel restructuring measures;
(ii) delays in the release of some external financing and the consequent late arrival of the technical
assistance team for the development of pastoral activities; (iii) the provision of inadequate technical
assistance to the FNEC for the strengthening of its financial and administrative management; and (iv)
overall, deficiencies in some of the technical assistance provided.
5.6    More generally, the external financing agencies failed to staff early supervision missions with
people having the necessary experience in institutional development to provide adequate guidance on
the statutes of the FNEC as a private entity, and thus oppose the tendency to keep it under close
Government control. As such, the mistaken impression that FNEC is financed by public funds
(resulting from the confusion between user fees and taxes) is likely to lead to continued government
interference.
5.7    Project implementation was significantly helped by the great flexibility shown by the
supervision missions, which allowed the project authority to conduct pilot activities in various areas.
5.8    Procurement. All procurement matters appear to have been handled correctly and in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
5.9    Project Costs. Project costs were estimated at CFAF 14.4 billion (US$37.3 million) including
implicit taxes on locally procured items but excluding taxes and import duties on direct imports.
Actual costs cannot yet be estimated, first because the accounts are not yet ready and, second,



- 5 -
because the implementation of components financed by other donors started late and has not been
completed.
5.10   Disbursement and Credit Allocation. Disbursements are provided in Part III Section 3. The
last disbursement was made in September 1992. No particular problems were encountered in this
area.
5.11   Project Risks. No major technological risks were identified. The efficiency of ANDE, the
stability and competence of the FNEC's leadership, the feasibility of organizing pastoral associations
and the use of veterinary drugs by herders were considered as serious project risks. ANDE has
proved to be relatively efficient; FNEC's management had been less so until the last project year,
when this situation was reversed. The organization of herder associations was satisfactory and the
herders have quickly learned the use of veterinary drugs. The major risk that remains is the likely
continued interference from the Government.
6.     PROJECT RESULTS
6.1    Project Obiectives. Broadly speaking, the project did achieve its major objectives: the FNEC,
the private entity responsible for the delivery of animal health and production inputs is now more
firmly established and the local herder associations (GIP) that sell these products to the end-users are
well known and enjoy the trust and confidence of herders, although these institutions still need
strengthening. ANDE's technical staff appear for the most part competent and qualified to provide
the required advice to livestock producers. However, the themes they were asked to transmit proved
unadapted to the actual needs of the sedentarized herders they were working with. And since
accounts have not been well kept, the project's financial results cannot be easily assessed.
6.2    Strengthening of the FNEC's financial and administrative management. The reinforcement of
the FNEC's management capabilities was not fully achieved. Financial statements are neither
properly established nor audited as needed. This applies to both the funds generated from the sale of
drugs and those coming from the membership fees. The FNEC's management structure is adequate
in staff number, but it would require improved expertise but should not increase its total number.
The lingering doubt cast over the FNEC's management is due to past accusations of misappropriation
which have gone to court but were neither proven nor disproved. Management procedures are not yet
established for the most part. The main reasons for these unsatisfactory results are the weakness of
the technical assistance provided to the FNEC and the appointment of politicians, under government
pressure, instead of proven managers to head it. The current secretary general is perhaps an
exception.
6.3    Expansion of the FNEC's input distribution system. The input distribution system was
successfully expanded by the construction of 26 depots, compared to 29 planned, and the addition of a
central depot in Bangui. Although adequate financial statements do not exist, it is believed that
sufficient margins are obtained from drug sales to pay for part of staff and operating costs but not for
capital renewal.
6.4    Other Physical Results. Dips were not constructed as envisaged because of their high cost
and the reluctance of herders to pay the operating fees. Even existing dips were not rehabilitated.
Three new markets were built out of the 20 planned at appraisal but an additional 84 were
rehabilitated compared to none envisaged at appraisal. The total number of operating markets is
therefore bigger than the initial project objectives. These markets are functioning reasonably well and



- 6 -
are a good vehicle for the monitoring of key project parameters such as the number of cattle sold,
their weight and general health, the origin of the sales and the identity of the buyers.
6.5    Herder Organization and Training. FNEC's representation at the national level was
strengthened through the establishment of 147 herder associations, although this falls short of the 216
projected at appraisal, with an estimated total membership of about 3,800 herders compared to the
appraisal target of 10,800. In the course of project implementation, agreement was reached by all
parties to reduce the original appraisal objectives to 150 herder associations and 3,750 members. The
revised objectives were therefore achieved. The main reasons for the shortfall compared to the
appraisal objectives are the shortage of staff at FNEC. A total of 4,071 herders were trained by the
Mutualistic Development Department of FNEC during the project period compared to the 5,400
planned, a respectable performance. Moreover, it is estimated that each of the original trainees
transmitted his new skills to another two herders. The lack of adequate manpower was again a factor
in limiting the diversity of training themes.
6.6   Initially, 30 pastoral agents were to be trained to monitor and help improve the management
of the Pastoral Interest Groups (GIP). The March 1988 supervision mission agreed to reduce this
number to 10 to reflect the difficulties encountered by the agents in monitoring the associations and to
be consistent with the decision to bring the groups together within regional Federations.
6.7    Restructuring of the Livestock Development Agency (ANDE):
(i)      Extension and Vaccination: ANDE carried two types of activities, one pilot
in nature, on internal parasites of calves and on forage crops, and the other
wider spread but not well adapted to beneficiary needs, on general extension
themes. At the same time, vaccination campaigns were conducted on a
systematic basis and the herders were trained by the FNEC in the use of
veterinary drugs.
(ii)      Staff Training: About 700 staff attended refresher courses compared to 500
planned at appraisal. In addition, 45 staff-years of training were provided
outside the country compared to the 61 planned at appraisal.
(iii)     Research: The planned central research laboratory in Bangui was constructed
and adequately equipped. The health profile of the livestock herd has been
established although all the available data have not been fully exploited.
However, the early warning system concerning imminent disease outbreaks
and resistance to certain drugs was not developed for lack of financing.
(iv)      Pastoral Settlement. The pilot programs envisaged to introduce a more
rational use of rangelands and a better integration of the herders in the
national economy have been more limited in scope than originally planned,
with only two of the seven areas developed by the end of the project. The
main reason for this failure is the delayed effectiveness of the EDF financing
which was exclusively for pastoral development.
(v)      Establishment of the Livestock Development Fund: The livestock
development fund has been successfully established and user fees are collected
and deposited in a special account as agreed, although there are increasing



- 7 -
collection problems and arrears. After project completion, these funds have
been totally spent, to correct project overspending during its final year and to
finance ANDE's sharply downsized operating costs.
6.8   Infrastructure Development. All of the planned 600 km of feeder roads were rehabilitated
although the program started late because of the delays encountered in the effectiveness of the EDF
financing.
6.9    Technical Assistance. About 28 man-years of long-term technical assistance were planned
over the life of the project. The high turnover of expatriate staff in the early project years and the
absence of reliable records on the employment of technical assistance make it difficult to determine
how much technical assistance was effectively used. Estimates vary from 15 man-years(by the project
manager) up to about 59 man-years, by ANDE's personnel department.
6.10   Regardless of this confusion, the technical assistance team made a positive contribution in the
key areas of livestock extension and vaccination, and in veterinary diagnostic. However, some key
functions that were to be performed with the help of expatriate technical assistance were not properly
carried out: no appropriate monitoring and evaluation system was devised other than the statistics
obtained at cattle markets; the financial management of both FNEC and ANDE has not been
noticeably strengthened; and the pastoral management component has not fared well.
6.11   It was planned to employ 24 man-years of volunteers. The actual number is less than 7 man-
years.
6.12   Institutional and Other Reforms. An action plan agreed upon called for ANDE to (a) correct
the imbalance between salary and non-salary expenditures; (b) modify the existing bonus system; and
(c) reduce the number of hierarchical steps within the organization and the total number of its staff by
282 or 37.5%. All these points were addressed: the salary structure was reviewed and a new bonus
or incentive system established. Finally, staff strength was reduced by 403 or 56% from the initial
level.
6.13   Pilot Activities. Testing of new promising technologies (tsetse and tick control, dry season
supplementation, grazing management, small ruminant production, animal traction and milk
processing) on a pilot scale was to take place. Of these, tsetse control, small ruminant production,
animal traction, and milk processing (small-scale cheese-making) activities were carried out with a
good degree of success: 20 animal traction sets were made and used, four cheese-making facilities
built, a new tsetse trap developed and now successfully marketed and used, and small ruminant
production themes elaborated and extended with good results to a limited number of mixed farmers.
6.14   Project Impact. Although it may be premature to obtain a full picture of the overall impact of
the project, it is clear that the project has made a positive contribution to the maintenance and
development of the livestock sector. First, it has firmly established herder associations in the rural
areas and provided veterinary drugs at reasonable prices. Second, it has made it possible to obtain a
more precise picture of the animal health situation in the country. Third, a larger portion of the herd
is now being either vaccinated or regularly treated, which has undoubtedly led to lower mortality
rates and more meat production, although it may be difficult to quantify the resulting benefits.
Fourth, herders are now less isolated and use cattle markets more regularly. Fifth, through the
training of ANDE and FNEC staff as wv-l as the herders, the project has had a positive impact on
human resource development. Finally, aithough much remains to be done, the institutional



- 8 -
development impact of the project has been positive: FNEC is now more firmly established and
recognized nationwide.
6.15   The impact of the project on herder income is difficult to quantify for lack of reliable data.
However, it can be estimated that the more intensive and regular use of drugs, the use of cotton seed
as a supplement to grazing in the dry season in certain areas, the introduction of animal traction and
the higher volumes of milk sold for cheese-making has certainly improved the lot of herder families.
Over the project implementation period, cattle prices have fallen by more than 30% as a result of the
drop in overall demand caused by the economic recession. The large influx of cattle from the
neighboring countries has also contributed to a drop in prices. The impact of these adverse
developments on herder incomes is believed to have been limited by the reduction of cattle mortality
and the higher weight gains brought about by the project. Meat consumption has increased in CAR as
a result of all these developments.
6.16   Finally, the project has had a determined impact on women as they are the main agents
involved in the sale of milk for cheese-making and those responsible for manufacturing cheese. It is
estimated that in at least one of the four cheese-making facilities now in operation, several thousand
liters of milk are purchased each year.
6.17   Proiect Rate of return. Information allowing a precise estimate of the project's rate of return
is not yet available due to the inefficient monitoring of project impact. However, available figures on
fecundity, mortality and offtake rates and meat prices lead to the conclusion that the ex post rate of
return is about 19%, compared to an appraisal estimate of 18%. Details of the basic assumptions
used are provided in Table 6.
7.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1    The management of the livestock sub-sector is not yet at a stage where it can function without
external financial assistance for the following reasons: for FNEC, the revenues generated from the
sales of membership cards, drugs and user fees are not sufficient to cover both the wage and the non-
wage operating costs, technical assistance and other costs that are of an investment and development
nature. ANDE does not generate enough funds from various livestock-related taxes to meet the needs
of non-salary operating costs and other still necessary expenditures like livestock research, staff
training and pilot activities.
8.  BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1    Bank performance was overall good by most yardsticks. First, the project preparation and
design sought to learn from existing and past operations as much as possible. Second, the project
concept that emerged represented a determined effort to use existing institutions, taking into account
their weaknesses, as effectively as possible. Third, the appraisal was well conducted with a balanced
multi-disciplinary team, and the agreed physical implementation targets were on the whole realistic.
Fourth, supervision missions were done systematically every six months and the continuity in the
staffing of these missions was good. The other financing agencies always participated in these
missions. Supervision missions had a livestock specialist at all times and included at various times a
financial analyst, an economist, a training specialist and an infrastructure specialist. All through the
project cycle, relevant issues were raised and many of them resolved.



- 9 -
8.2    The major weakness in the performance of the Bank is the failure to address properly
institutional matters. This manifested itself in the staffing of all the missions, which only belatedly
included an institutional development specialist. A major consequence has been the inadequate
attention given to the changes in the statutes of the FNEC in mid-1988, which increased Government
control of the institution by giving the Minister of Livestock, the general manager of ANDE and the
mayors of the herder "communes" a majority on the Board of the FNEC. Further attempts to
increase Government control in 1991 were blocked by donor supervision missions.
8.3    Finally, the Bank failed to take forceful action when it realized early on during project
implementation that the financial management of both FNEC and ANDE was not satisfactory and that
the technical assistance provided in that area was deficient.
9.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1    The performance of the Borrower was generally satisfactory. Eirst, effectiveness conditions
were met without delay. Second, most of the staff required to be posted were nominated on time and
had for the most part adequate experience and qualifications, except in the last year of project
implementation. Third, the required budgets and annual work plans were produced on time. Finally,
the Borrower acted with due diligence and in close collaboration with the Bank to speed up the
effectiveness of the EDF grant, which nevertheless delayed the start of some project activities.
9.2    The performance of the Borrower was inadequate in the following areas: (i) the financial
management of the project has consistently been weak and less than satisfactory; (ii) the use of
technical assistance was not properly planned, documented or evaluated; (iii) when the project
manager became unavailable following a car accident, the Borrower failed to provide a suitable
provisional replacement or to closely supervise the management of the project during the crucial
period that followed. This resulted in mismanagement and led to a serious financial crisis.
9.3    Finally, the Borrower has constently tried to interfere with the running of FNEC. This
interference took many forms. First, the Government sought to have a predominant position in
FNEC's board and to influence the appointment of board members; second, the Government sought to
use FNEC for political purposes that are unrelated to FNEC's basic purpose and functions; third,
there are indications of misuse of FNEC's resources in terms of marketable cattle or liquidities;
finally, the Government appeared unwilling to accept the emergence of FNEC as an independent,
autonomous entity.
10.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
10.1   The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank has generally been good, except for the
conflict over the statutes of FNEC in the last few months of project implementation and disagreement
on the appointment of the acting general manager of ANDE. The relationship between the Bank and
the co-financiers has been excellent. Similarly, there was good collaboration between the Borrower
and the co-financiers.
11.   CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1   The number of short-term consultants used by the project is not well documented, but it
appears far short of the targets set at appraisal. It was envisaged that 54 man-months of short-term
technical assistance would be employed during project implementation. This can be explained, at



- 10 -
least in part, by the reluctance of the Government to use consultants notwithstanding the weaknesses
of its own staff, as well as its reluctance to document the impact of technical assistance.
12.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1   All project documents (legal agreements, staff appraisal report) were comprehensive and
provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower during project implementation. They
also provided sufficient flexibility to project management to allow it to adapt to field conditions as
they evolved. The "Livre Blanc de l'Elevage Centrafricain," prepared during the last year of project
implementation provides an good basis for the preparation of the follow-up program.
12.2   All the data relevant to the preparation of the PCR were not readily available, namely the
balance sheets, other financial statements of the project for a number of years and certain performance
indicators. For this reason, as well as the fact that some components financed by other donors are
still under implementation, it has not been possible to carry out an updated and thorough economic
analysis of the project.



- 11 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Credit C1681)
PART III: STATISTICAL INF'ORMATION
1.    Related On-going Loans and Credits
Credit Title                Purpose             Ya of Approval
Economic Management        Institution Building             1988           Under SPN
Project Cr. 1971-CA
Transport Sector Project   To finance the PIP of the        1990           Under SPN
Cr. 2126-CA                sector
Natural Resource           Sectoral Adjustment and         1990            Under SPN
Management Projectg       investment
Cr. 2138-CA
Structural Adjustment      Structural Adjustment            1990           Under SPN
III Cr. 2162-CA
Social Dimension of        Limit social effects of          1991           Under SPN
Adjustment and             adjustment and promote
Development Project        women development
Cr. 2275-CA
Agricultural Services      Help develop rural               1992               Not Yet
Development Project        support services and rural                          Effective
development organizations



- 12 -
2.    PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date
Item                     Planned    Revised     Actual          Comments I/
Identification               N.A.       N.A.        5/84       a), b), c)
Preparation                 12/84      12/84       12/84       c), d), e), f), g)
Appraisal                    5/85      5/85        5/85        h), i), j)
Negotiations                 3/86      3/86        3/86        i), k), l), m), n)
Board Approval               4/86      4/86        4/86        o)
Signature                    4/86      4/86        4/86
Effectiveness                8/86       8/86       8/86
Closing                      6/92      6/92        6/92
Completion                  12/92      12/92       12/92
Notes
1/
Issues raised: a)    Design of agricultural component
b)    Design of forestry component
c)    Timing and financing preparation mission
d)    Institutional risks
e)    Geographical coverage
f)    Cost recovery of vaccinations
g)    Marketing
h)    Financing of livestock service
i)    Restructuring of FNEC
j)    Financing of dipping tanks
k)    Amount of IDA Credit
1)    Staff reduction plan
m)    Staff Bonus system
n)    Market and trypanocide taxes
o)    Training
N.A. = Not Available



- 13 -
3.    CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement (SDR'000)
ESTIMATE                ACTUAL                Actual as % of
FISCAL      DISB,   CUMUL.          DISB.   CUMUL.    Estimate (CUMUL)
1986
1987       532       532           1,360     1,360               256
1988      1,086     1,617          1,730     3,090               191
1989      1,776     3,396          1,800     4,890               144
1990      2,173     5,566          1,710     6,600               119
1991      2,073     7,639          1,590     8,190               107
1992      1,480     9,119         2,150      10,340              113
1993       985    10,105            40      10,380               103
1994       195    10,300                    10,380               101
Date of final Disbursement: --------
Note: Actual disbursements are slightly superior to the credit figure because of the appreciation of
the CFA Franc with respect to the SDR during the disbursement period.



- 14 -
4.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                  Appraisal Estimate   Actual or PCR Estimate
A. Institution Building
1. FNEC
Herders' Associations:
GIP                                        216                     159
FELGIP                                     20                       8
ZAGROP                                      3                        1
Members (GIP)                            10,800                  3,837
Herders trained                          5,400                    4,071
Herders's sons trained                      10                      7
Pastoral Agents Trained                    30                       0
2. PMU
Staff Trained (Man-Years)                  61                       45
Refresher Courses                          500                     700
(Staff enrolled)
Technical Assistance                       28                       15
(Long Term, Man-Years)
Consultant (Man-Months)                    54                      N.A.
Volunteers (Man-Years)                     24                       6
Staff Reduction                            282                     349
Percentage reduction                      37.5                      56
B. Infrastructure
Feeder Road Rehabilitated                 600                      600
Cattle dips built                          18                       0
Settlement Zones set up                    18                       1
Research unit built                        1                        1
Workshop built                              1                       1
Markets built                              20                       3
Markets Rehabilitated                     N.A.                     84
C. Marketing (average/year: 1987-1991)
Cattle marketed                           N.A.                   89,520
Sheep/Goat marketed                       N.A.                   7,809



- 15 -
D. Animal Health (average/year: 1987-1991)
Rinderpest Vaccinations                    N.A.                 452,128
Tse-Tse Screens                           3,000                   2,800
E. Other
OA Traction (sets)                         N.A.                     20
Cheese making Plants                       N.A.                     4
Drug Sales (CFAF Mns)
(average/year)                                                     508



- 16 -
5.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING (1)
A. Project Costs
(US$'000)
Appraisal      Estimate        Actual
1. HERDERS FEDERATION
Administration & Finance              1,177
Input Distribution                    6,154
Pastoral Organization & Training     1L669
Sub-Total 1                             9,001
2. LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Extension, Vaccination, Training      8,507
Research                              2,215
Pastoral Settlement                   2,499
Livestock Development Fund            1244
Sub-Total 2                             14,465
3. INFRASTRUCTURE
Feeder Road Rehab. & Maintenance     2J706
Sub-Total 3                             2,706
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Headquarters                          1,749
Monitoring and Evaluation              396
Vehicles and Equipment                 663
Project Preparation                    472
Sub-Total 4                             3,280
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    29,452
Physical Contingencies                   1,840
Price Contingencies                     6.01
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     37,306
(1) Due to the late start of the components financed by other donors (para. 16), project
implementation is not yet completed and accounts cannot yet be made of total project costs.



- 17 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Indicator                          Appraisal Estimate     Estimated at closinig
Fecundity rate (%)                              58                      53
Abortion rate (%)                              N.A.                    4.2
At birth mortality rate (%)                    N.A.                    1.0
0-1 Year mortality rate (%)                     23                    21.6
1-3 Year mortality rate (%)                     14                     6.7
Adult mortality rate (%)                                               3.1
Offtake rate (%)                                                       13.2
Herd growth rate (%)                             3                     2.2
Annual Incremental Production:
Meat (tons/year)                               2,600
Milk (tons)                                    6,000
Herd value (US$'000)
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return                          19%
C. Basic Assumptions of Economic
Impact
The economic analysis of the project has
been done in a manner consistent with the
procedure and methodology used in the
appraisal report.



- 18 -
7. STATUS OF CONVENANTS
Brief Description                   Development          Compliance         Comments
Credit Agreement
Section
Borrower to carry out parts C         3.01. (a)             Yes
and D of the Project and to
cause ANDE to carry out Part
B and provide needed
ressources.
Borrower to make funds                3.01. (b)             Yes
available to FNEC as per
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
(SGA)
Borrower to protect itself, IDA       3.01. (c)             Yes            Some problems
and FNEC and comply with                                                   encountered
SGA
Goods, works and consultants'           3.02                Yes
services procurement to follow
IDA's guidelines
FNEC to conform to section              3.03                Yes
2.03 of Project Agreement
(PA)
Borrower to carry out Schedule          3.04                Yes
4 Action Plan (S4AP)
Borrower to staff ANDE as
agreed                                  3.05                Yes
Borrower to create a pastoral
settlement unit within ANDE           3.06.(a)              Yes
Borrower to review pastoral
program and its impact by dec.        3.06.(b)              Yes
89



- 19 -
Brief Description               Development           Compliance          Comments
Credit Agreement
Sectio
Borrower to establish the         3.07. (a)              Yes
Livestock Develop Fund
(LDF) in BEAC or similar
institution for ANDE
Borrower to make ANDE to
fund LDF with specified          3.07 (b) (i)            Yes
taxes
Borrower to consult with         3.07 (b) (ii)           Yes
IDA on level of LDF funds
Borrower to submit annual          3.07 (c)              Yes
work programs and cost
estimates to IDA
Borrower to open and               3.08 (a)              Yes
maintain accounts for
ANDE in BEAC or other
institutions for ANDE salary
payments
Borrower to make initial         3.08 (b) (i)            Yes
deposits in ANDE salary
accounts
Borrower to make regular         3.08 (b) (ii)           Yes            Delays at times
deposits in ANDE salary
accounts
Borrower to staff ANDE             3.08 (c)              Yes           Except during last
and Project Management                                                   project year
Unit (PMU) adequately
during implementation
Borrower to maintain or            4.01 (a)             Partial       Problem: quality of
cause to be maintained                                                          accounts
adequate accounts of all
project activities



- 20 -
Brief Description            Development              Compliance              Comments
Credit Agreement
Section
Borrower to prepare            4.01 (b)                   Yes
quarterly reports
Borrower to have              4.01 (c) (i)                Yes
accounts audited
Borrower to submit            4.01 (c) (ii)               Yes
report to IDA within
six months of end of
fiscal year
Borrower to submit           4.01 (c) (iii)               Yes
quarterly reports
within two months of
the end of the quarter
Borrower to submit           4.01 (c) (iv)                Yes
other information to
IDA as requested
Borrower to maintain          4.01 (d) (i)                Yes
separate records for
Statement of
Expenditures (SOE's)
Borrower to retain            4.01 (d) (ii)               Yes
SOE records for at
least one year
Borrower to enable           4.01 (d) (iii)               Yes
IDA's representatives
to examine SOE
records
Borrower to maintain             4.02                   Partial            Budget problems
feeder roads
Borrower to request a        4.01 (d) (iv)               Yes
separate audit opinion
on SOE accounts



- 21 -
Brief Description             Project              Compliance            Comments
Agreement Section
FNEC to carry out              2.01                   Yes
Part A of the Project
and provide funds as
needed
Goods, works and               2.02                   Yes
consultants' services
procurement to
conform to IDA
guidelines
FNEC to respect                2.03                   Yes
provisions of PA in
carrying out project
FNEC to conform to             2.04
provisions of SGA                                     Yes
FNEC to consult with          2.05 (a)                Yes
IDA and Borrower as
appropriate
FNEC to inform IDA            2.05 (b)                Yes
of any conditions
adversely affecting the
Project
FNEC to carry out             2.05 (c)                Yes
mid-term evaluation of
project



- 22 -
Brief Description             Project              Compliance             Comments
Agreement Section
FNEC to employ a                2.06                   Yes
pastoral organization
specialist
FNEC to maintain              3.01 (a)                 Yes            Problem: Quality of
adequate records and                                                           accounts
accounts
FNEC to have                 3.01 (b) (i)              Yes
accounts audited
FNEC to submit              3.01 (b) (ii)              Yes               Great delays
audited accounts to
IDA within six months
of end of
fiscal year
FNEC to furnish IDA         3.01 (b) (iii)             Yes
any information about
accounts on request
FNEC to maintain             3.01 (c) (i)              Yes
separate records for
SOE's
FNEC to retain SOE          3.01 (c) (ii)              Yes
records for at least one
year
FNEC to let IDA's           3.01 (c) (iii)             Yes
representatives
examine SOE records
FNEC to request a           3.01 (c) (iii)             Yes
separate audit for SOE
accounts



- 23 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs (Staffweeks)
--     Fiscal Years----
Task                      84   85    86    87    88    89    90    91    92
Preparation               9.3   14.6
Appraisal                 19.0  28.5
Negotiations                     4.7
Processing                0.2   0.8   11.9
Sub-Total                 9.5  34.4  45.1
Administration                         0.1  0.3            1.4
Supervision                            2.7  6.8   5.8   11.0  15.5  17.0  18.0
PCR (1)                                                                        8.2
Total                     9.5  34.4  47.9  7.1   5.8   12.4  15.5  17.0  26.2
Total StaffWeeks: 175.8
(1) Includes 2.2 staffweeks for Fy 93



- 24 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
B. Missions (Staff and consultants)
Stage  of            Month/Year         Number        Days in       Specialization           Performance          Types of
Project Cycle                          of Persons         Field       Represented(*)       Rating Status(**)    ProbLems(***)
Identification            06/84             3              6              a, b, c
Appraisal                 05/85             4              21             a,b,c,d,e
Supervision I             10/86             1              9                  a                     2                 F,DI,OS
Supervison II             10/87            4(i)            9                 al                    3,2                M,DI,OS
Supervision III           03/88          4(ii)+            8                a, e                    2                 M,DI,OS
Supervision IV            11/88           7(i)+            11               a, b                    2                F,M,DI,OS
Supervision V             05/89           7(ii)+           8                a, b                    2                F,N,DI,OS
Supervision VI            11/89           6(i)+            6                a, b                    2                 F,M,L,0
Supervision VII           05/90           7(ii)+           6                  a                     2                 F,M,L,O
Supervision VIII          11/90           6(ii)+           6                a, b                    3                 F,M,L,O
Supervision IX            11/91           6(i)++           13                 a                     3                   N,F
Supervision X             11/92           6 (i)            12                 a                     2                  OS,L,M
Notes:
(*) Specializations: a=livestock specialist; b=financial analyst; c=infrastructure specialist; d=training specialist;
e=economist.
(**) Ratings: lno significant problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems which are being addressed adequately;
4=major problems not being addressed adequately.
(***) Problems Listed: M=management; DI=development impact; oS=overall status; O=development objectives; F=financial;
L=compliance with legal covenants.
(i) Mission included representatives of following co-financing agencies: EDF, FAC.
(ii) Mission included representatives of following co-financing agencies: EDF, FAC, IFAD.
+ means mission had one or more consultants.
++ means mission had an observer (from Caisse Centrale)



- 25 -
DOCUMENTS CONSULTED
1.    Project Briefs
2.    Issues Paper
3.    Pre-mission briefing papers
4.    Back-to-office and other internal Bank reports
5.    Decision memorandum and comments on the memorandum
6.    Correspondence between the Bank and the Government
7.    Negotiations memorandum
8.    Appraisal Report
9.    Supervision reports
10.   Development Credit Agreement
11.   Project Agreement
12.   Western Livestock Project (Cr. 895-CA) PCR
13.   PNDE reports
14.   Preparation/Identification report for follow-up project
15.   Audit reports of ANDE and FNEC
16.   Livre Blanc de l'Elevage Centrafricain
17.   Mid-Term Evaluation Report
18.   FAC financing agreement
19.   IFAD Loan agreement
20.   Legal decrees or texts on ANDE and FNEC
21.   Etude Socio-Economique des eleveurs en RCA
22.   Audit Institutionnel de la Federation des Eleveurs Centrafricains.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE I                 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
INITIAL HERD COMPOSITION (1)
'000
FEMALES                     MALES                        TOTAL                 MORTALITY
CLASS    NUMBER         X   CLASS    NLBER           X   CLASS    NUMBER         X    RATE
0-1      174.2        15    0-1       171.2        28    0-1       345.4       19        30
1-3      264.1        22    1-3       223.2       36    1-3       487.3        27         3
3 & ORE   742.6         63  3 & ORE   218.5          36  3 & MORE   961.1        54         2
TOTAL    1180.9       100              612.9       100             1793.8      100         8
X          66                           34                          100
(1) Based an 1985 vaccinations and as given in IEMVT'. Western Livestock
Project Coopletion Report Annex 111, Table 21
According to the sane Table 21, average offtake is as follows:
FEMALES             MALES              TOTAL
('000)             ('000)             ('000)
HERD       1180.9              612.9             1793.8
OFFTAKE      110.0               98.0              208.0
X          9.31               15.99              11.60
13.2
1. Detafls of Fema le Herd: (a)
Fecundity I Change
Age     Number      X   Fecundity       WP
0-1     195.5        17        0         0
1-2     136.3        12        0         0
2-3     123.8        10        11       14       21
3-4     104.0         9       35        38        8
4+      620.7        53       55        58         5
Total   1180.3       100    33.16    35.32      6.11
(a) Source: ANDE's my 1992 report by LEGALL ET NDOKCWUE
"APPROCHE ECONOMIQUE DE LA PATHOLOGIE BOVINE
EN RCA." For Fecundity niumbers, see Arnex 5: Analyse cout-benefice
effectif netional



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 2              CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
1. Herd Growth Assumptions (a)
HGR (1) HGR (1)
WOP       WP
0.2      0.8
(1) Aversge Herd Growth Rate per year Without Project
(2) Average Herd Growth Rate per year With Project
2. Herd Ownership Structure nd offtake (b)
Number of Cattle per herd    X Herd   Offtake
Less than 50                       14    19.42
50-100                             30    19.42
100-200                           41    13.69
More than 200                      15     8.19
Total                             100    15.39
3. Price Assumptions (c)
Live-                      Dead      Dead
weight         Milk       Animals  Animtls
CFAF/kg          CFAF/L    CFAF/kg  Weight
1986      220                 80       135      100
1987      200                 85       123      100
1988      152                 90       112      100
1989      166                 95       102      100
1990      152                100        93      100
1991      152                100        93      100
1992      152                100        93      100
A after
(a) for details, see Tables 4 & 6
(b) Numbers are from ANDE's Mai 1992 report:
"Approche Econolmque de Is Pathologie Bovine
en RCA", F. LE GALL ET F. NMOLUE
(c) The 1966 prices are from the project appraisal
report. The 1991 and 1992 numbers are from the report
In (b) above.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3                       CENTRAL AFRICAN REPLULIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC HERD PARAMETERS
UITNHOT PROJECT (a)
Age                                Offtake          Mortality    Fecundity        Liveueight       Liveweight Price         Herd Sfze
X Mate X Female   Mate    Female    Male    Female   Female    Hate    Female    Mate    Femele    Hale    Female    Total    X
0-1        10.80    10.90        2.0      0.0      26.1      25.1       0.0        80        70       225       220    193.7    195.5    389.3        21.7
1-2        6.20      7.60      10.0       0.0      13.1      13.1       0.0       170       150      200       170    111.2    136.3    247.5         13.8
2-3         5.50     6.90      15.0       0.5       5.1       5.1      11.0       220       200       175       180     98.7    123.8    222.4        12.4
3-4         3.90     5.80      15.0       0.5       3.0       3.0      35.0       270       250       170       190     70.0    104.0    174.0         9.7
4-5         2.70      5.10      15.0      4.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       350       280       175'     170      48.4      91.5    139.9        7.8
5-6         2.00     5.00      40.0       7.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       300       170      175      35.9      89.7    125.6          7
6-7         1.40      4.90     55.0       7.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       300       160       180     25.1      87.9    113.0        6.3
7-8         1.20     4.80      55.0       8.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       300       160      210      21.5      86.1    107.6          6
8-9         0.40      4.30      55.0     11.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       300       150      220       7.2      77.1      84.3       4.7
9-10        0.04      3.90      55.0      12.0      3.0       3.0      55.0       420       300       155       210      0.7      70.0      70.7      3.94
10-11        0.02      2.50      55.0     20.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       290       140      200       0.4      44.8      45.2      2.52
11-12        0.02      2.10      60.0     20.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       280       150       190      0.4      37.7      38.0      2.12
12 & +       0.02      2.00     97.0      97.0       3.0       3.0      55.0       420       270       150       180      0.4      35.9      36.2      2.02
Average      34.2      65.8      4.24      4.55     4.19       5.03    31.50    91.40   331.42    66.13   196.91    612.9   1180.9   1793.8             100
or Total                                      9                   9                          249                 152        34       66
(a) See IEMVT's PCR of Uestern Livestock Project
Amex 111, Table 15, page 127, project year 5.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4                       CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HERD DEVELOPMENT
UITNHWT PROJECT
'000
Herd              TOTAL
YEAR        HERD FEMALE   FECUNDITY  BIRTHS    NEU  MORTALITY  NUBER   OFFTAKE  NUBER    FINAL   GROWTN MILK PER   MILK
RATE              HERD     RATE    DEATHS   RATE               HERD     RATE    FEI/YR  (1000 L)
1986   1793.8   1180.9      54   401.0  2194.8         7.8   171.2    11.2   200.9  1822.7                  46.9  39812.7
1987   1822.7  1199.9       54   407.5  2230.2         7.8   174.0    11.2   204.1  1852.1    1.61          46.9  40454.2
1988   1852.1  1219.3       54    414.0  2266.1        7.8   176.8      11.2   207.4  1581.9    1.61        46.9  41106.0
1989   1U81.9  1238.9       54   420.7  2302.6         7.8   179.6    12.5   235.2  1887.8    1.61         46.9  41768.4
1990   1887.8  1242.8       54   422.0  2309.8         7.8   180.2    12.5   236.0  1893.7    0.31         46.9  41898.4
1991   1893.7  1246.6       54   423.3  2317.0         7.8   180.7    12.5   236.7  1899.5    0.31         46.9  42028.8
1992   1899.5  1250.5       54   424.6  2324.2         7.8   181.3    12.9   245.0  1897.9    0.31         46.9  42159.7
1993   1597.9  1249.4       54   424.3  2322.1         7.8   181.1    12.9   244.8  1896.2   -0.09    46.9  42122.3
1994   1896.2  1248.3        54   423.9  2320.1        7.8   181.0    12.9   244.6  1894.5   -0.09         46.9  42084.9
1995   1894.5   1247.2       54   423.5  2318.0        7.8   180.8    12.9   244.4  1892.8   -0.09         46.9  42047.6
1996   1892.8  1246.1        54   423.1  2316.0        7.8   180.6    12.9   244.2  1891.1   -0.09         46.9  42010.3
1997   1891.1  1245.0        54   422.8  2313.9        7.8   180.5    12.9   244.0  1889.5   -0.09          46.9  41973.0
1998   1889.5   1243.9       54   422.4  2311.5        7.8   180.3    12.9   243.7  1887.8   -0.09          46.9  41935.8
1999   1887.8  1242.8        54   422.0  2309.8        7.8   180.2    12.9   243.5  1886.1   -0.09          46.9  41898.6
2000   1886.1   1241.7       54   421.6  2307.8        7.8   180.0    12.9   243.3  1584.4   -0.09          46.9  41861.5
2001   1884.4   1240.6       54   421.3  2305.7        7.8   179.8    12.9   243.1   18W2.8   -0.09         46.9  41824.3
2002   1882.8  123?.5        54    420.9  2303.7       7.8   179.7    12.9   242.9  1881.1   -0.09          46.9  41787.2
2003   1881.1   1238.4       54    420.5  2301.6       7.8   179.5    12.9   242.7  1879.4   -0.09          46.9  41750.2
2004   1879.4  1237.3        54   420.1  2299.6        7.8   179.4    12.9   242.4  1877.8   -0.09          46.9  41713.1
2005   1877.8  1236.2        54   419.8  2297.5        7.5   179.2    12.9   242.2  1876.1   -0.09          46.9  41676.2
2006   1876.1  1235.1        54   419.4  2295.5        7.8   179.0    12.9   242.0  1874.4   -0.09          46.9  41639.2
Average Growth Rate                                                                                 0.2



PROJECT C    TLEO REPORT
Table 5                      CENTRAL AFRICA REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPENT PROJECT
HERD DEVELOPIENT
WITN PROJECT
EVOLUTION Of PMRADETERS
WITH AND WITNMJT PROJECT
Liters
mortality         Offtake          Fecundity      Liveweight       Nilk/Cow
with without    With without    With Without    With Without    With Without
YEAR     Project Project Project Project Project Project Project Project Project Project
1966      7.80    7.80    11.2    11.2    54.0    54.0       249      249    .6.9    46.9
1967      7.80    7.80    11.2    11.2    54.0    54.0       249      249    46.9    46.9
1986      7.80    7.80    11.2    11.2    54.0    54.0       249      249    46.9    46.9 
1969      7.70    7.80    11.2    12.5    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    46.9                            w
1990      7.70    7.80    11.2    12.5    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    46.9                            0
1991      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.5    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    4.9                              1
192       7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    4.9
1993      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    4.9
1994      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    4.9
1995      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    46.9
1996      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       249      249    47.4    u.9
1997      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    u.9
1998      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    46.9
1999      7.so    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    u.9
2000      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    46.9
2001      7.50    7.80     11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0      250      249    47.4    46.9
2002      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    u.9
2003      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    4.9
2004      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    u.9
2005      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    u.9
2006      7.50    7.80    11.2    12.9    55.0    54.0       250      249    47.4    4.9



PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
TabLe 6                        CENTRAL AFRICAN REPFJILIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HERD DEVELOPMENT
WITH PROJECT
'000
TOTAL
YEAR        HERD FEMALE   FEaUHITY  BIRTHS    NEU  NMORTALITY  NUMBER   OFFTAKE  NUWSER    FINAL   GROWTH  MILK PER   MILK
RATE              HERD       RATE   DEATHS    RATE                HERD     RATE  FEN/YEAR  (1000 L)
1986   1793.8   1180.9        54    401.0   2194.8       7.8    171.2      11.2    200.9   1822.7               46.9  39612.7
1987   1822.7   1199.9        54    407.5   2230.2       7.8    174.0      11.2    204.1   1852.1      1.61     46.9  40454.2
1988   1852.1   1219.3        54    414.0   2266.1       7.8    176.8      11.2    207.4   1881.9      1.61     46.9  41106.0
1989   1881.9   1238.9        55    428.5   2310.4       7.7    117.9      12.5    235.2   1897.3      1.61     47.4  42213.6
1990   1897.3   1249.0        55    432.0   2329.3       7.7    179.4      12.5    237.2   1912.7      0.82     47.4  42558.0
1991   1912.7   1259.2        55    435.5   2348.3       7.5    176.1      12.5    239.1   1933.0      0.82     47.4  42905.2
1992   1933.0   1272.6        55    440.1   2373.2       7.5    178.0      12.9    249.4   1945.8      1.06     47.4  43360.5
1993   1945.8   1281.0        55    443.0   2388.9       7.5    179.2      12.9    251.0   1958.7      0.66     47.4  43647.3
1994   1958.7   1289.5        55    446.0   2404.7       7.5    180.4      12.9    252.7   1971.6      0.66     47.4  43935.9
1995   1971.6   1298.0        55    448.9   2420.6       7.5    181.5      12.9    254.3   1984.7      0.66     47.4  44226.5
1996   1984.7   1306.6        55    451.9   2436.6       7.5    182.7      12.9    256.0   1997.8      0.66     47.4  44519.0
1997   1997.8   1315.2        55    454.9   2452.7       7.5    184.0      12.9    257.7   2011.0      0.66     47.4  44813.4
1998   2011.0   1323.9        55    457.9   2468.9       7.5    185.2      12.9    259.4   2024.3      0.66     47.4  45109.7
1999   2024.3   1332.7        55    460.9   2485.2       7.5    186.4      12.9    261.1   2037.7      0.66     47.4  45408.0
2000   2037.7   1341.5        55    464.0   2501.7       7.5    187.6      12.9    262.9   2051.2      0.66     47.4  45708.3
2001   2051.2   1350.3        55    467.0   2518.2       7.5    188.9      12.9    264.6   2064.8      0.66     47.4  46010.6
2002   2064.8   1359.3        55    470.1   2534.9       7.5    190.1      12.9    266.4   2078.4      0.66     47.4  46314.9
2063   2078.4   1368.3        55    473.2   2551.6       7.5    191.4      12.9    268.1   2092.2      0.66      47.4  46621.2
2004   2092.2   1377.3        55    476.4   2568.5       7.5    192.6      12.9    269.9   2106.0      0.66      47.4  46929.5
2005   2106.0   1386.4        55    479.5   2585.5       7.5    193.9      12.9    271.7   2119.9      0.66      47.4  47239.8
2006   2119.9   1395.6        55    482.7   2602.6       7.5    195.2      12.9    273.5   2133.9      0.66     47.4  47552.2
Average Growth Iate                                                                                     0.8



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS DATA
YEAR HERD UP HERD WOP   DIFF. OFFTAKE OFFTAKE   DIFF. MILK UP MILK VOP   DIFF. DEATHS  DEATHS    DIFF.
UP     wOP          'OOOL   'OOOL              UP       UOP
1986  1522.7  1822.7     0.0   200.9   200.9      0.0 40454.2 40454.2     0.0   171.2   171.2      0.0
1987  1852.1  1852.1     0.0   204.1   204.1      0.0 41106.0 41106.0     0.0   174.0   174.0      0.0
1988  1881.9  1881.9     0.0   207.4   207.4      0.0 41768.4 41768.4     0.0   176.8   176.8      0.0
1989  1897.3  1887.8     9.5   235.2   235.2      0.0 42558.0 41898.4   659.6   177.9   179.6    -1.7
1990  1912.7  1893.7    19.1   237.2   236.0      1.2 42905.2 42028.8   876.4   179.4   180.2    -0.8
1991  1933.0  1899.5    33.5   239.1   236.7      2.4 43360.5 42159.7  1200.9   176.1   180.7    -4.6
1992  1945.8  1897.9    48.0   249.4   245.0      4.3 43647.3 42122.3  1525.0   178.0   181.3    -3.3
1993  1958.7  1896.2    62.5   251.0   24.8       6.2 43935.9 42084.9  1851.0   179.2   181.1    -2.0
1994  1971.6  1894.5    77.2   252.7   244.6      8.1  44226.5 42047.6  2178.9   180.4   181.0    -0.6
1995  1984.7  1892.8    91.9   254.3   244.4    10.0 44519.0 42010.3  2508.7   181.5   180.8       0.7
1996  1997.8  1891.1   106.7   256.0   244.2    11.9 44813.4 41973.0  2840.3   182.7   180.6       2.1
1997  2011.0  1889.5   121.6   257.7   244.0    13.8 45109.7 41935.8  3173.9   184.0   180.5       3.5
1998  2024.3  1887.8   136.5   259.4   243.7    15.7 45408.0 41898.6  3509.4   185.2   180.3       4.8          w
1999  2037.7  1886.1   151.6   261.1   243.5    17.6 45708.3 41861.5  3846.9   186.4   180.2       6.2
2000  2051.2  1884.4   166.7   262.9   243.3    19.6 46010.6 41824.3  4186.3   187.6   180.0       7.6
2001  2064.8  1882.8   182.0   264.6   243.1    21.5 46314.9 41787.2  4527.6   188.9   179.8       9.0
2002  2078.4  1881.1   197.3   266.4   242.9    23.5 46621.2 41750.2  4871.0   190.1   179.7    10.4
2003  2092.2  1879.4   212.7   268.1   242.7    25.5 46929.5 41713.1  5216.3   191.4   179.5    11.8
2004  2106.0  1877.8   228.2   269.9   242.4    27.4 47239.8 41676.2  5563.7   192.6   179.4    13.3
2005  2119.9  1876.1   243.8   271.7   242.2    29.4 47552.2 41639.2  5913.0   193.9   179.2    14.7
2006  2133.9  1874.4   259.5   273.5   242.0    31.5 47866.7 41602.3  6264.4   195.2   179.0    16.1



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Toble 8                       CENTRAL AFRICAN REPLUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS DATA
I NCREMENTAL BENEFITS
(CFAF MILLION)
TOTAL  INVEST  OPERATING  TOTAL   NET FLOU
HERD     MEAT      MILK  DEATHS              1ENTS    COSTS
YEAR
1986                  0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
1987                  0        0         0        0         0      1337      769     2106    -2106
1988                  0        0         0        0         0      1550      931     2481    -2481
1989               393         0        63      -17       438     1550      Iioo     2650    -2212
1990               724        45        88       -8       849     1862      1831     3693    -2844
1991               1272       91       120      -43      1440      1974      823     2797    -1358
1992              1821       164       153      -31      2107     2300       675     2975      -869
1993              2374       235       185      -18      2775     Z300       675     2975      -200
1994              2929       306       218       -6      3448                675      675      2m
1995              3488       378       251        7      4124                675      675      3448
1996              4050       450       284       20      4804                675      675      4128
1997              4615       522       317       32      5488                675      675      4812
1998              5184       595       351       45      6175       230      675       905     5270
1999              5756       669       385       58      6867                675       675     6192
2000               6331      742       419        71     7563                675       675     6888
2001               6909      817       453       84      8263                675       675     7588
2002               7491      891       487       97      8967                675       675     8291
2003               8076      966       522      111      9675                675       675     8999
2004               8665     1042       556       124    10387       230      675       905     9482
2005               9257     1118       591       137    11103                675       675    10428
2006               9852     1194       626       151    11823                675       675    11148
TOTAL                                                     13334    15584
6128
EcornIc Rate of Return                                                                  19.38






_____N ___GER ___________________'___.__________-___--_____'________________IB_IRD    19233
C-AZ     -~~~~        (uCENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
N --E R I A t C 9 A a ( 8 U H A                                                                                                   N                   ./_ ' S > \ REPUBLIOL               IE CENTRAFRICAINE
I~A-.    -j _*, _'                                                                                     F \  j z  >   ^'1.' /  =   t '  C   \  NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
-.                                                                                                                                           u >                  _                  / J ~ , > e z .- V \ PROJET NATIONAL D'ELEVAGE
AD-IIST--T,E ORG-2-ZAT0O OF tjvESTOC~ CO--U TIES
C, _   >                       CENTRAL         N                                                   U                                       '                           j                       O # y ~   , .. ,  GAN,SA,-,Q,N ADPUN,MA TI -E DE8s 'C,ST- COMMUNES DE lOGE-
AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                      2     ASS C E.U,ES DEEbCf
2 CAvE9OGN t 8 / ~~~~~<                                                                               I                                                       I      _          -, -   RRV&OFIROUS.er*Lvo
t   r PR  )   Z A ' R E   !                                                                                \ 2tbda 6 oll   i                                   Et; TISG NfRASTR'JCTURE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.ST1G  1.ST~CT,~
fi~~~~~ Rog..                                                     -iz                                                                                                                   F/^< r1w .5  LEiNful5sSXc Sw>uSSt EsC-T.O
w u es  3TH  g D@   f#   'L  r                                                                                                                                                                                   S  ~I~E.D S16
S ~      ~       Y                                                                                                                                                      ./2  rOJMRU DELELACEx         c       9   Tf   OpSE  E _*f
ZA!RE                                                                                                             0,O                                                 EA  AOTR  UI A
0EOA o.ST 07 *-) orL -                                                                                                                                                                                                rS VFFRUSCIS'USO
CONGOLRIIL.AROICCRV
'<    ,I s            PEOPLE'S  REP               ,
CAME ROON   !                            OF THE CONGO   7 0METTO G  ' W
- P~
PEOPLE'S REP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIE
OF THE CONGO                                            c        5;          E         o r   2,            2 50a    1 3/ ?0y     a      T      Fg/         JR    8c1@f   f                        O E1
OCTOBER 1985



