Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C R ASg C17
Report No. 5909-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
March 24, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture D
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorhalion.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit        -    CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS1.00              =    CFAF 385
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Square Kilometer (km ) =    0.39 Square Miles
1 Hectare                      2.47 Acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
ANEC      Association Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains
(National Association of Central African Livestock
Producers)
CAR       Central African Republic
CBPP      Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooprration
(French Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
FNEC      Federation Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains
(National Federation of Central African Livestock
Producers)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Develorment
LS        Livestock Service
MDR       MinistAre du Developpement Rural
(Ministrv of Rural Develorment'
PMU       Project Monitoring Urnit
WLP       Western Livestock Project
FISCAL YEAR
rovernment : January 1 - December 31



FOR oMC[AL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE .........               ...........   iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHMARY .................................                  v
I.    BACKGROUND          ................................ .                    1
A.  Introduction ......................................                   1
B.  The Economy .......................................                   1
C.  The Agricultural Sector ...........................                   2
II.  THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR ......... .....................                   3
A.  Livestock in the Economv ..........................                  3
B.  Physical and Social Environment .....               ..............   4
C.  Technical Constraints and Offtake ....               .............   4
D.  Livestock Institutions ............................                  5
1.  ANEC/FNEC ....................................                 5
2.  The Livestock Service ........................                 6
3.  Livestock Development Projects ....             ...........    7
TIII  THE PROJECT.8
III   TH   PRJEC ............................................ 
A.  Project Objectives ................................                  8
1.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement .... .....                9
2.  Summary Description ..........................                 9
B. Detailed Features                         ..                         10
1.  FEC   .........         ...............................       10
2.  Livestock Service ............................                11
3.  Infrastructure Development .....             ..............   13
4.  Project Management and Monitoring ....             ........   13
C.   Implementation ........         ............................       14
1.  Institutional and Other Reforms ....             ..........    14
2.  Organization and Management .....             .............    15
3.  Present Status of Project .....             ...............   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission undertaken in
May/June 1985 by a team consisting of Mr. de Haan, Mr. Baillie, and
Ms. Kawabata (Bank staff), and Messrs. Marty and Guillaud (Consultants).
The report was edited by Mrs. Layton and typed by Mrs. Reza.
This document nis a restricted distribution end may be used by recipients only in the performaice
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authoriution.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                               Page No.
D.  Project Costs and Financing Plan ..................  17
1. Project Costs ....                   ........   17
2. Financing Plan ....................  ........   18
E. Procurement and Disbursement ......................   19
1. Procurement ...............             .....   19
2. Disbursement          ...........................   20
F.  Production, Markets and Prices ....................  21
G. Financial Results, Economic Benefits and
Project  Risks  ......... ........ *  ....*..*. ........ .  22
1. Financial Results ..**.....**e.*.... ****..........   22
2.  Economic Benefits ...... ... ......... ..........   22
3.   Project  Risks  ........ . .   ............ ... ..    ..........  .  23
4. Environmental Risks ..... ...... ....09 ...... . 23
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ...............   24
ANNEXES
1        MDR Organization Chart
2-1      Livestock in the Economy
2-2      Ph7sical and Social Environment
2-3      Technical Constraints and Offtake
2-4      Livestock Institutions
2-5      The Western Livestock Project
3-1      Technical Packages
3-2      FNEC Component
3-3      Livestock Service Component
3-4      Infrastructure Component
3-5      Project Monitoring
3-6      Institutional Reform and Action Plan
3-7      Project Linkages with Livestock Service and FNEC
3-8      FNEC Proposed Organization Chart
3-9      Livestock Service Proposed Organization Chart
3-10     Technical Assistance
3-11     Implementation Schedule
3-12     Project Cost Summary
3-13     Financing Plan by Project Component
3-14     Project and Special Accounts
3-15     Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursement
3-16     Herd Projections
3-17     Financial Results
3-18     Economic Benefits
MAP IBRD No. 19233



- Iij  -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Code
Selected Reports and Otudies Relating to the Sector
1.    Central African Republic Country Economic Memorandum,           LEAP - B/R
December 1983.
2.   "Etude de Faisabilite du Projet de Sauvegarde des                225.978
Bovins Trypanotolerants en Republique Centrafricaine",
BDPA, 1984.
3.   "Plan Quinquennal 1986-1990, Agriculture/Elevage",               225.978
Direction des Etudes et de Coordination, MDR, 1985.
4.   "Les Eleveurs M'Bororo de l'Ombella M'Poko",                     CAR-Cr.1150
Claude Le Masson, 1985.                                         No. 225.971
5.   "Le Developpement de l'Elevage dans l'Ouest                      CAR-Cr. 894
Centrafricain", Jean Boutrais, OSTROM, 1985.                    No. 225.982
Selected Reports on the Project
6.   "Les Paturages de la Region de Bossembele, Yaloke;               CAR-Cr. 894
Diagnostic et Propositions de Gestion", J. Audru.               No. 220.644
IEMVT, 1983.
7.   "Etude de Factibilite de la Phase VI.  Projet de                 225.983
Developpement de V'Elevage Ouest. (Republique
Centrafricaine). Volet Laboratoire", M. Clair,
IEMVT, 1985.
8.   "Preparation du Second Projet du D6veloppement de                225.986
l'Elevage", 4 Vol., BDPA, 1985.
9.   "Justification Economique de la Mise en Place de                 CAR-Cr.894
l'Exploitation d'un Bain Detiqueur en R6publique                225.987
Centrafricaine", BDPA, 1985.
Reports on the Western Livestock Project
10.  "Resultat des Enquetes Sanitaires et du Nouveau                  CAR-Cr. 894
Systeme de Vente des Produits Veterinaires.                     No. 225.968
Cellule Suivi et Evaluation du Projet", 1984.
11.  "Raprort d'Etude sur le Prix Reel d'Achat des                    CAR-Cr. 894
Produits Veterinaires par les Eleveurs"  PDEO, 1985.            No. 224.717
12.  "Rapport semestriel, no. 9", PDEO, 1985.                         CAR-Cr. 894



- iv -
DOCUMENZTS IN THE PROJECT FILE (Continued)                               Code
13.  "Annexe no. 3.  Rapport Semestriel no. 9.  Sous-Projet            CAR-Cr. 894
Agropastoral de Bossembele",  PDEO, 1985.                       Q/R
14.  "Preevaluation de la Deuxifme Phase du Projet d'Elevage.          225.989
Les Aspects Institutionels", A. Marty, 1985.
Staff Working Papers
15.  "Evaluation Projet de Developpement de l'Elevage:                 225.990 (1)
Composante Formation Vulgarisation", P. Guillaud, 1985.
16.   Rural Feeder Roads, E. Baillie. 1985.                           225.990 (2)
17.   Cattle Dip Troughs, E. Baillie, 1985.                           225.990 (3)
18.   Detailed Cost Tables, K. Kawabata, 1985.                         225.990 (4)
19.   Herd Projection Tables, K. Kawabata and                         225.990 (5)
C. de Haan, 1985.
20.   Terms of Reference Technical Assistance                          225.990 (6)
Personnel
21.   Economic Analysis                                                225.990 (7
WAPAD
March 1986



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Central African Republic
Beneficiaries: The National Federation of Central African Livestock
Producers and the Livestock Service of the Ministrv of Rural
Development. The Borrower would make available
US$1.8 million equivalent of the Credit, as a grant to the
Federation.
Credit Amount: SDR 10.3 million (US$11.9 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Cofinanciers:  The European Development Fund (EDF) of the European
Economic Community, the French Fund for Aid and Cooperation
(FAC) and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD).
Project
Description:   The project's main objective would be to develop a viable
institutional framework for the country's livestock
subsector to ensure the efficient delivery of necessary
inputs and extension to livestock producers, thus reducing
diseases and pasture degradation, increasing livestock
production, and improving the standard of living of herders.
It would (a) strengthen the National Federation of Central
African Livestock Producers (FNEC) to further develop its
input deliverv and pastoral organization and to increase the
number of herder associations; (b) assist the Livestock
Service (LS) in its vaccination campaigns against the main
epidemic diseases; the reorganization and strengthening of
its extension, research and pastoral settlement activities;
and the restructuring of its personnel and financial
organization to sustain these activities on a long-term
basis; (c) rehabilitate feeder roads in the Livestock
Communities to improve the herders' access to markets; and
(d) reinforce management capabilities during project
implementation.



-vi-
Estimated Costs (US$ million)
FNEC                            Local       Foreign      Total
Admin. and Finance            0.5         0:7          1.2
Input Distribution            1.5         4.7          6.2
Pastoral Organization
and Training                0.8         0.8          1.6
LS
Extension and Vaccination    5.7          2.8          8.5
Research                      1.2         1.0          2.2
Pastoral Settlement           1.3         1.2          2.5
Livestock Dev. Fund           0.3         0.9          1.2
Infrastructure
Feeder Road Rehabilitation   1.4          1.3          2.7
Project Management
Directorate                   0.7         1.0          1.7
Monitoring and Evaluation    0.2          0.2          0.4
Workshop                      0.3         0.4          0.7
Preparation Follow-up
Project                     0.2         0.3         0.5
Total Baseline Costs         14.1        15.3         29.4
Price Contingencies         0.6         1.3          1.9
Physical Contingencies      3.0         3.0         6.0
Total Project Cost           17.7        19.6         37.3
Financing Plan (USS million)
Local     Foreign        Total
IDA                             5.0         6.9          11.9
IFAD                            1.6         2.2           3.8
EDF                             2.8         2.6           5.4
FAC                             0.3         0.8           1.1
FNEC and herders                1.4         5.7           7.1
Government                      6.6         1.4           8.0
Total                       17.7        19.6          37.3



- vii -
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FY                1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  1993
Annual                 1.1     1.8    2.3    2.5    2.0    1.5   0.7
Cumulative             1.1     2.9    5.2    7.7    9.7   11.2  11.9
Benefits and Risks
The project would create the basis for a viable and sustainable
institutional framework to better serve the livestock subsector; improvze
knowledge and use of veterinary Inputs by herders; increase annual meat
production by 2,600 tons In PY5 and 15,000 tons in PY20, and the income of
about 10,800 families (45Z of thz cattle-raising population); and increase
milk production by 6,000 tons In PY5 and 25,000 tons in PY20, thus raising
local consumption and improving nutrition. Risks concern the efficiency of
the Livestock Service, the stability and competence of FNEC's leadership,
the feasiblity of organizing pastoral associations, and the use of
veterinary drugs by herders. The technical assistance component, the
proposed institutional reforms, and the proiect's approach to work within
existing government and traditional structures are expected to ensure
orderly project implementation.
Economic Rate of Return: 152 if all project costs are included,
Increasing to 20% if the research and pilot
operations and infrastructural component are
excluded from the analysis.
18p: IBRD 19233



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.        The Government of the Central African Republic (CAR) has
requested IDA's assistance to finance a national livestock project in
support of its policy to increase livestock production, enhance the role of
the private sector, and integrate the nomadic population into the rural
society. The project as proposed would build upon and consolidate the
activities started under the IDA/ADF/IFAD-financed Western Livestock
Project and the EDF-financed Central Livestock Project. EDF, FAC and IFAD
have confirmed their participation in cofinancing this project.
2.        The project was identified by Government and the Bank in May 1984
as a follow-up to the Western and Central Livestock Projects. It was
prepared by the French Office for the Development of Agricultural
Production ("Bureau pour le Developpement de la Production Agricole"
- BDPA) under French bilateral financing. The final preparation report was
submitted to IDA in March 1985 and the project was appraised in Mav/June
1985 with the participation of EDF and FAC representatives. Negotiations
were held in Washington from March 3 to March 7, 1986.
B. The Economy
3.        The CAR is a landlocked country of 623,000 km  in the heart of
Africa. Its climate is subhumid, varying from Sub-Sahelian with an average
annual rainfall of 700 mm in the extreme north, to inter-tropical with
1,100 mm in the central region, and to equatorial with 1,500 mm in the
southwest. Its topography consists of a vast plateau with gently rolling
hills, cut by many streams and rivers. Its vegetation ranges from woodland
savannah in the central and northern parts of the countrv to equatorial
forest in the south.
4.        The CAR's population is estimated at 2.6 million (1984), with a
low density of about four inhabitants per square kilometer. In recent
years population growth has averaged 2.5%, with urban growth rates of 4-5%.
About 70% of the population is rural and 12% is livestock producer, almost
exclusively from the Fulani ethnic group.
5.        With a per capita income of USS270 in 1984, the CAR belongs to
the group of least developed countries. Agriculture, including forestry,
is the mainstav of the economv and accounts for about 42% of GDP, mining,
manufacturing and construction for 13%, and services for 45%. High
transportation costs in domestic and international trade and an oversized
civil service explain the large share of services in GDP.



- 2 -
6.        The CAR's landlocked position, dlfficult transportation
conditions, sparsely populated area, limited domestic market, and weak
human resource base are the principal constraints to the development of its
economy. Bottlenecks in the routes to the sea through the Congo
(river/rail) and through Cameroon (road/rail) substantially raise
production and inventory costs and reduce the CAR's export competitiveness.
The CAR has, however, a good economic resource base which should allow its
per capita income to grow at a modest but sustainable rate, provided
appropriate macroeconomic and sectoral policies are put in place.
7.        Following a severe period of mismanagement of the economy in the
1970s, significant progress has been made toward establishing the right
policy framework. Since then, policy changes have been introduced,
emphasizing appropriate producer incentives, stabilization of public
finances, stepwise reduction of state intervention in economic activities
and encouragement of the private sector. Between 1980 and 1985, cotton
producer prices were doubled in nominal terms, fertilizer subsidies
reduced, and performance of the main rural development agency ("Socift6
Centrafricaine de D6veloppement Agricole" - SOCADA) was significantly
improved by reducing its overhead costs. Consequently, cotton production
and yields more than doubled from 22,600 tons in 1981 to 46,300 tons in
1985, and from 176 kg/ha to 572 kg/ha, respectively. Food crop production
has also risen in line with cotton production, and in response to the
Government's decision to refrain from intervening in foodcrop marketing and
the reappearance of consumer goods in rural areas. Between 1982 and 1985,
gross domestic product and agricultural production rose, interrupted by the
drought in 1983, at an annual average rate of 1.2% and 2.6% respectively.
8.        Impressive progress has also been achieved in the area of public
finance. Over the past two vears, budgetary deficits have been drastically
reduced, due both to Increased revenues and improved expenditure control,
including a slight reduction in the number of civil servants. However, the
public sector continues to be burdened with excessively high personnel
costs thus limiting severely government revenues available for operational
or development purposes. Government is addressing this problem in the
context of both individual projects, such as the proposed National
Livestock Project, and an ongoing reform of the public administration.
C. The Agricultural Sector
9.        Agriculture accounts for 42% of the CAR's GDP, 80% of export
earnings and 80% of employment. Foodcrop and livestock production each
contribute more than one-third to agricultural GDP, with export crops and
forestrv making up the remainder. About 350,000 families grow
foodcrops--mostly cassava--on approximately 520,000 ha, or 80% of the total
cropped area. The country is virtually self-sufficient in the main food
staples. Coffee and cotton are the main export crops. Coffee, mostly grown
in the southwest, provides 16% of CAR's foreign exchange revenues, second
only to diamonds. Cotton, grown mainly in the northwestern and central



- 3 -
provinces, provides 14% of exports. It is the most widely grown cash crop
and is, therefore, a kev catalyst in rural development. However, the
recent fall of cotton prices on the world market endangers the viability of
this crop.
10.       After the sharp decline of the sector in the 1970s, the current
Goverrment established the following priorities for its agricultural
strategy: (a) development of the smallholkder sector; (b) rehabilitation of
the regional-based rural development institutions; and (c) rehabilitation
of export and foodcrop production and rural infrastructure in an integrated
rural development approach. It has since made considerable progress in
liberalizing prices and markets of foodcrops and revitalizing cotton and
its rural development agency, SOCADA. The rural development strategy for
the new five-year plan (1986-1990) continues to be based on these
principles, with heavy emphasis on the reform of Government institutions to
improve their relationship with the producers. The current dialogue with
the Bank focuses on this institutional reform issue and on pricing and
marketing issues in coffee and cotton. The Ministry of Rural Development
("Ministare du Developpement Rural" - MDR), through its three Directorates
General (Agriculture, Rural Works and Livestock) is responsible for
implementing this strategy. MDR's organization chart is in Annex 1.
II. THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
A. Livestock in the Economy
11.       Livestock production has recently become a major activity in the
CAR. This has been due to a dramatic increase in cattle migration from
Cameroon, Nigeria and Chad over the last two decades, but particularly in
the early 1980s, when drought and civil unrest in Chad and the efficient
vaccination campaign against Rinderpest in the CAR (para 23) brought in
several thousands of herders from neighboring countries. As a result,
CAR's cattle herd doubled from 1.1 million head in 1980 to 2.2 million in
1984. Smallstock flocks (900,000 goats, 100,000 sheep, 300,000 pigs and 2
million poultry) have been growing more slowly. More background on the
role of livestock in the CAR's economy is in Annex 2-1.
12.       Livestock is one of the agricultural subsectors with the greatest
growth potential in the CAR. The country is self-sufficient in meat, but
there are export opportunities within the region (to Nigeria, Gabon,
Congo). Besides making an important contribution to increased exports,
livestock could contribute substantially to increasing the overall
efficiency of crop production: there is still considerable scope for
expanding the use of animal traction and other forms of integrating crops
and livestock. The project would encourage this integration. Moreover,
especially in remote areas, herders are almost the only outlet for
foodcrops produced by peasant farmers. Government is aware of livestock's
potential and gives its realization a high priority. Over the last few



- 4 -
years, 14% of the rural development investment budget and 30% of its
operational budget have been allocated to livestock, and Government intends
to maintain this level.
B. Physical and Social Environment
13.      Almost all cattle in the CAR are kept by the nomadic M'bororo
(20,000 families) and the settled Foulbe (2,000 families), who together
make up the Fulani ethnic group. The Fulanis form a highly structured
society, clearly distinct from the rest of the population by their pastoral
vocation, migratory life-style, language and religion. Most cattle
production is nomadic or semi-nomadic grazing on the common rangelands.
However, settlement, combining herding with cropping, is becoming
increasingly common, especially in the so-called Livestock Communities.
These are special areas demarcated by Government exclusively for grazing
and contain 30% of the national cattle herd. The small herd (7,500 head)
of trypanotolerant cattle introduced in CAR from Guinea in the 1950s is
mainly kept by crop growers. Legislation restricting the sale and
slaughter of these cattle was intended to accelerate the multiplication of
this valuable breed, but has had, in fact, the opposite effect of severely
constraining its expansion. This legislation would be rescinded as a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para 70(a)). Smallstock are also kept
by crop farmers, and ownership of small ruminants is widespread.
14.      A detailed socio-anthropological study of the Fulanis (Project
File No. 225.982) and a survey of their household budgets (Project File
No. 225.971) were carried out as part of project preparation. They showed
that cattle wealth is not evenly distributed among the Fulanis. Herd
ownership ranges from 40 to 1,000 head per family (average nine persons).
The average annual per capita income of these pastoralists is about US$330
equivalent (national average: USS270), but this figure is somewhat
misleading as about 55% owns fewer than 100 head and thelr average income
is less than US$170 equivalent. Differences in wealth clearly affect
individual herd management strategy; poorer herders care more for their
animals, as shown by their higher expendc!itures per animal on veterinary
drugs. Furthermore, poorer herders are forced to sell a higher percentage
of their animals to menet subsistence needs, sometimes jeopardizing the
sustainability of their herds. It can be expected, therefore, that poorer
herders will benefit at least equally from improvements in the animal
hea'lth delivery system. More country data, including the geograrhical
distribution and characteristics of the animal population, and structures,
income and nutrition of herders are given in Annex 2-2.
C. Technical Constraints and Offtake
15.      Herd disease and poor nutrition are the main technical
constraints producers face. The main diseases are Trypanosomiasis,
Brucellosis, internal parasites, and ticks and tick-borne diseases; their
affect on animal health is described in Annex 2-3, which also gives a brief



- 5 -
account of the country's animal feed resources. Cattle fertilitv is low
because of Trypanosomiasis and a high incidentce of Brucellosis. The poor
quality of rangelands in the dry season aggravates the effects of these
diseases. Veterinary drugs to control them have only recently become
available, but their distribution and use are still deficient.   As a
result, average mortality of all age groups over the last few years is 10I
(30% of calves) compared with 8% (20-30% of calves) for Sub-Saharan Africa.
The estimated calving rate is 53% against a feasible 65%. Cattle herders
know that diseases are their major constraint and respond eagerly to
opportunities of procuring animal health inputs, as demonstrated by the
spectacular sales growth under the Western Livestock Project (WLP)(para 25)
and the success of the Rinderpest campaign (para 23).
16.       With an increasingly successful control of animal diseases, the
second generation problems of preventing rangeland degradation become more
important. Although the CAR's potential carrying capacity is about double
the present livestock population, the subhumid savannah vegetation is
extremely fragile and localized range degradation is apparent.
Socio-economically feasible control methods would include the introduction
of better grazing management and adjudication of exclusive grazing rights
to settled herder associations, to be tested under the project.
17.       Cattle marketing is mostly handled by traders from Cameroon and
Chad, who buy directly from herders or at cattle markets. Although several
middlemen are normally involved until cattle reach the consumer markets of
Bangui, or of Cameroon and Nigeria, markups are reasonable and the system
is efficient. Offtake is affected by the shortage of consumer goods in
production areas due to poor access to secondary roads, which reduces the
incentive to sell cattle. There are no sociological constraints to
increasing offtake, and contrary to widespread opinion, cattle are sold
when they have reached their maximum weight and are not kept beyond that
stage for prestige reasons. In the cropping area, milk is often sold by
women to crop farmers; no markets for milk exist in the low densitv
population areas.
D. Livestock Institutions
1. ANEC/FNEC
18.       In 1973, faced with an almost complete collapse of the Government
Livestock Service (LS), the producers formed a private and autonomous
National Association of Central African Livestock Producers (ANEC) to
facilitate drug distribution. However, poor leadership in the late 1970s
severelv affected its operat4ons. Tn 1981, the newly appointed Secretary
General rehabilitated ANEC 7ith the help of technical assistance under WLP.
This institution--unique in West Africa-represents the herders at the
national level and distributes the necessary inputs, mainly veterinary
drugs. Its image at the field level has improved over the last few years;
60% of all herders are now fee-paying members. It is governed by a General
Assembly and a Board of Directors, chaired by an elected President, and has



- 6 -
a Secretary General as its chief executive. A Coordination Committee,
comprising the President and Secretary General of ANEC and the Director
General of the LS, plans and supervises its day-to-day operations and
coordinates them with the LS.
19.       The main problems of ANEC are: (a) lack of adequate organization
at field level, although a start has been made in developing local herder
associations; (b) strong Government pressures to finance other activities,
thus threatening ANEC's financial viability; and (c) lack of herders with
educational levels allowing effective participation in management. To
address these issues, amended statutes were adopted during project
preparation, under which the representation of herder associations in the
General Assembly is greatly increased, thus broadening grassroot
participantion in management (para 34). The amended statutes further
strengthen the role of the Board of Directors and of the Coordination
Committee to enhance its independence from Government. These actions are
reflected in the recent change of name of the National Association (ANEC)
into the National Federation (FNEC). Under the project, training
opportunities would be created to expand the basis from which FNEC could
select future leaders.
20.       FNEC derives its income mainly from membership fees and profits
on drug sales (US$329,COO in 1984). Under its amended statutes, 30% of the
membership fees will remain in the local herder associations to strengthen
their activities. FNEC also receives Mar-ket and Trypanocide fees (locally
known as "taxes") (US$59,000 in 1984). These taxes were instituted in the
1970s and levied respectively by the FNEC representatives and LS staff on
traders at cattle markets to maintain market facilities and provide trade
cattle enroute to Bangui with protection against Trypanosomiasis. However,
they are no longer associated with their original purpose, as changing
circumstances (more export to Trypanosomiasis-free areas and improved drug
availability) have obviated the use of this prophylaxis or FNEC's
involvement in its administration. The recovery rate has plummeted to
10-20%. Under the project, this system would be rehabilitated and the
revenues used as the beneficiaries' contribution to the Livestock
Development Fund to finance the reorganization of the LS and to recover a
portion of the costs of rangeland and animal production extension
(para 40).
2. The Livestock Service
21.       The Directorate General of Livestock and Animal Industries in ]MDR
is responsible for the overall development of the livestock subsector. It
is represented in all the districts to provide producers with animal health
and production advice and services; it operates a training college for
field staff at Bouar and a clinic in Bangui, and is responsible for
sanitary control at the borders, markets and slaughter places. The present
payroll shows a total of 752 staff. This total number of staff is high in
relation to the number of cattle and to what the country can afford even
though it compares favorably with levels in many other countries in the
Region; however, the proportion of lower level support staff is
U



comparatively high. The main problem is that virtually all (99.5%) of the
US$1.4 million equivalent Government budget for the LS is spent on
salaries. This makes LS totally dependent on external financing for
operational expenditures. Furthermore, the structure of the LS is complex,
with six levels from the Directorate General to the Livestock Post.
Because of the high proportion of junior staff, many field level
supervisors are quite inexperienced, making effective information transfer
from management to the grassroot level very difficult. More information on
the above two livestock institutes is provided in Annex 2-4, together with
FNEC's fee structure.
3. Livestock Development Projects
22.       The two Livestock Development Projects--the Western Livestock
Project (WLP) financed by IDA/IFAD/ADF and the Central Livestock Project
(CLP) under EDF financing--provide the main impetus to livestock
development in the CAR. WLP is described in more detail in Annex 2-5.
They have similar objectives, i.e., to increase livestock production and
the standard of living of the herders through improved animal healtit
services and production extension.   Additionally, CLP supports the
development of a livestock multiplication center for trypanotolerant cattle
and has constructed some markets, and WLP supports the Livestock Training
College at Bouar. Together they finance virtually all operating costs of
the LS. Geographicallv, CLP focuses on the central part of the country
with 25% of the cattle population and WLP on the western part, which
contains the remaining 75Z. Government has decided to merge all future
external funding into the National Livestock Project.
23.       Initially both projects worked exclusivelv with the LS, but while
positive results were obtained with this approach in some areas,
performance in others was poor. With heavy assistance from the two
projects, LS responded efficiently to the region-wide Rinderpest outbreak
in 1983, containing mortality to less than 1% in the CAR against 5-15% in
neighboring countries. Three successful follow-up campaigns were
organized. Each project supports a provincial field diagnostic laboratory;
although these laboratories are severely hampered by unreliable utilities,
they perform simple diagnostic work well. Some progress has also been made
in grazing management. Simple grazing schemes that halt pasture
degradation have been identified and are being introduced on a pilot scale.
Furthermore, capable Central African nationals have been appointed to the
positions of Director General and Regional Inspector. Government payment
of LS salaries has been generally on time and disbursement under WLP is
only one year behind schedule. The initial weaknesses of the WLP technical
assistance have been overcome and the present team is well integrated into
the overall government structure.
24.       Initial project performance in curative animal health and animal
production extension had been poor because of weaknesses in the project
design and in the structure of LS. The WLP revolving fund for the sale of
drugs was mismanaged, and contacts between LS and producers beyond
vaccination campaigns had been minimal. The Technical College at Bouar



- 8 -
produced graduates who were automatically recruited for an already
overstaffed civil service, while the technical quality of existing staff
was extremely poor.
25.       The animal health and training components of WLP were therefore
redesigned in October 1982 and ANEC was given responsibilitv for the
distribution of veterinary drugs. Training was reoriented toward herders
to teach them the proper use of these drugs. CLP adopted the same approach
in 1984. The automatic recruitment of graduates of the Bouar College for
civil service was discontinued and training was shortened from four to
three years. Under the project, training would focus exclusively on
refresher courses for existing staff, and admission of new students would
be suspended for five years. As a result of the new project design, drug
sales have jumped thirtv-fold, about 1,000 herders have been trained and 20
herder associations have been formed and function well. The distribution
system now reaches most producers, including the poorer strata.
26.       The two projects did not address the structural weaknesses of the
LS, which is still hampered by inadequate training and communication
difficulties of the field staff, due to different ethnic and language
backgrounds, and bv the absence of an adequate extension methodology.
Furthermore, the lack of resources and inadequate personnel policies do not
provide adequate incentives for the agent to go to the field. Extension in
grazing management, animal production, the integration of livestock into
crop production and overall sanitary protection, essential for a
well-balanced development of the subsector, is therefore neglected.
Furthermore, the structural dependence of LS on external funding for its
operation has not been corrected. A more comprehensive approach, combining
management reforms with retraining, introduction of well defined extension
packages and methods, and a mechanism to redress the present imbalance
between salary and non-salary expenditures is therefore necessary and is an
integral part of the National Livestock Project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
27.       The project's main objective would be to develop a viable and
sustainable institutional framework for the livestock subsector that could
effectively deliver animal health and production inputs, as well as
technical advice to all livestock producers to increase their production
and improve their standard of living. To achieve this objective, the
project would strengthen FNEC and LS in those areas where they have
comparative advantages and institute reforms to ensure the sustainability
of the investments. The project would support Covernment's objectives to
increase food production, expand exports, strengthen and revitalize
government and private institutions in the subsector, and minimize the
recurrent charges to be borne by Government after project completion.



- 9 -
1. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
28.       The project would support one of the CAR's agricultural
subsectors with best growth potential. Further external support is
essential to consolidate the initial gains made in animal health under WLP,
to broaden these gains with key actions in rangeland use and animal
production so as to arrive at sustainable land use systems and prevent
ecological degradation. Further external support is also essential to
introduce the institutional reform actions required to ensure a long term
sustainability of past investments and of any future investments in the
livestock subsector. The project's objectives, combining institutional
reforms and a larger role for the private sector, are in line with the
institutional reform effort generally being supported by IDA. Furthermore,
Government wishes IDA to continue to play a lead role in developing the
sector, particularly in light of the experience gained under the WLP and
the need to monitor progress under the project. Finally, external
financing requirements of the project exceed the amounts available from
other concessional sources.
2. Summary Description
29.       The projec' would support the following actions:
(a) In FNEC the project would (i) strengthen its financial and
administrative management; (ii) expand its input distribution
system; and (iii) staff and equip a pastoral organization and
training department to form about 200 herder associations and
train their present and future leaders, auxiliaries and herders
in general.
(b) In LS the project would (i) restructure the personnel and
financial organization,-so that LS can sustain its activities on
a long-term basis; (ii) strengthen LS vaccination and extension
capability; (iii) establish a central veterinary diagnostic and
livestock research laboratory; (iv) strengthen the department for
pastoral settlement and further develop the pilot settlement
areas; and (v) establish a Livestock Development Fund.
(c) Under the infrastructure component, the project would
rehabilitate 600 km of feeder roads in areas of high livestock
density.
(d) To reinforce management capabilities, the project would continue
to staff and equip a small project management unit and a
monitoring unit, and establish a vehicle and equipment
maintenance unit.
30.       The project would cover almost the entire subsector and focus on
improving the health of the national cattle herd. In addition, the project
would start a number of activities with other livestock species and in
rangeland use, animal production and management, producers organization and



- 10 -
institution building, which would make it a comprehensive livestock
development effort. Geographically, the project would cover the entire
livestock population, combining activities on a national scale (drug
distribution, improved extension advice and vaccination, establishment of
herder associations) with the testing of promising technologies on a pilot
scale (tsetse and tick control, dry season supplementation, grazing
management, small ruminant production, animal traction, and milk
processing). Annex 3-1 gives a brief description of these technologies.
31.       Prospects that the project would achieve its objectives and have
a satisfactory economic impact are good. First, the project would build
upon earlier successful experiences and address a key constraint, i.e.,
animal health, on which the producers place the highest prioritv--in a
humid environment and for which appropriate technology exists.  Ex-post
evaluations of the limited number of animal health interventions in West
Africa have generally shown a high economic returns. Second, the project
concept and design are significantly different from the majority of African
livestock projects, which in general performed poorly as they attempted to
increase animal production and rangeland productivity in low potential,
arid environments, for which often no adequate soci.o-economically proven
technologies exist. Furthermore, the project would exploit the comparative
advantages of the public and private sectors, and would use existing
government and traditional institutions--without making drastic
changes-thereby increasing the prospects of successful implementation.
B. Detailed Features
1. PNEC
32.       General.  The project would use FNEC's comparative advantage in
commercial activities and its better communication channels with herders to
expand FNEC's livestock input distribution system and develop a herder
organization and training capability. This would address the main
technical constraint, poor animal health, on the curative side, and further
strengthen producers organization at the field level. FNEC's financial and
administrative management would also be strengthened with the international
recruitment of a financial controller (five man-years) and computer
equipment to improve FNEC's accounting and stock control system.
33.       Livestock Input Distributioui System.  FNEC's present system would
be expanded with one central and 29 Legional depots and provided with
equipment and six sales vehicles. All staff and operating expenses would
be financed from the margin on the sale of drugs, except for the head of
the system who would be peid by the project for the first three years and
from the sales margin afterwards.
34.       Herders Organization and Training.  The project would support the
formation of herder associations to facilitate the distribution of drugs
and other inputs and training of herders, and to strengthen FNEC's field
level organization to improve its representation at the national level.



- 11 -
Furthermore, the associations would be the essential building blocks for
the pilot settlement groups (para 39) through which the introduction of
more rational rangeland use would be tested. The project would therefore
support the establishment at FNEC of a pastoral organization and training
department and would finance a pastoral organization specialist for four
years, as well as vehicles and operating costs for this department. Field
work would be entrusted to four mobile teams, each headed by an expatriate
volunteer. A network of about 30 pastoral agents would be gradually built
up to monitor and further guide the new herder associations. Based on
WLP's success in forming such associations, the project would organize half
the pastoral population (about 11,000 herders) into 216 associatiors; it
woulrd train in each association the leader and two auxiliaries for the
pharmacies and introduce in total about 5,400 herders to the proper use of
drugs. Furthermore, the project would provide professional and technical
training for up to ten young herders, so as to expand the basis for
selection of FNEC's future leadership. A joint implementation review would
be carried out in the second half of 1989, when 80 herder associations
would have been established. This review would assess the achievements of
herders organization and training, and of the pastoral settlement
component, and would, if necessary, modify objectives and approaches in the
light of project experience. Further details on the FNEC component are
given in Annex 3-2, in particular on the expected build-up of the herder
associations and of the livestock producers reached during project
implementation.
2. Livestock Service
35.       General.  The project would assist LS in addressing the
preventive animal health needs, and the rangeland and animal production
constraints: sanitary protection of the national herd (vaccination and
quarantine measures), extension in rangeland use and animal production
techniques; research; and pilot activities in pastoral settlement. These
tasks have a strong public interest element or an experimental character
which makes LS the most suitable organization to implement them.
Entrusting such tasks to a private institution such as FNEC would either
produce a conflict of interest (vaccination and quarantine rcquiring public
enforcement to be successful and settlement activities involving
farmer/livestock land tenure), would involve risks normally entrusted only
to a public institution (research) or would involve long-term investments
and a high degree of public interest and be beyond FNEC's present
management capabilities (rangeland use and animal production extension,
which are important aspects of resource conservation). In the long run
(5-10 years), a further transfer of animal production and management
extension responsibilities to FNEC may be feasible. The remaining LS tasks
in sanitary border control and food inspection are outside the scope of
this project.
36.       Extension and Vaccination.  To develop appropriate extension
methods and packages for the herders, based on experience acquired under
WLP, the project would finance the services of a livestock extension expert
(three man-years) and associated transport and operational costs. This



- 12 -
expert would be assisted by locally recruited subject-matter specialists in
the preparation of livestock extension packages for crop farmers. The
Bambari livestock multiplication center would be further equipped with
cattle truck and provided with a revolving fund for the purchase and sale
of trypanotolerant cattle to and from crop/livestock farmers. A diagnostic
survev of smallstock problems would determine the main thrust of an
appropriate extension package. The project would renew equipment for
vaccination against Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine Pleuro Pneumonia (CBPP)
and Brucellosis and would equip the sectors with motorcvcles and mopeds.
37.       Staff Retraining.  To improve their communication skills and
technical expertise in preventive animal health, rangeland management, and
animal production techniques, all LS field staff would attend annual
refresher coturses at the Bouar College. An internationally recruited
training exrert (three man-years) would be financed to develop and
introduce this program, and funding would he made available for the
logistics of the programs and the demonstration farm (to he headed by a
French volunlteer).  Provision would also be made for about 61 staff-years
of specific training outside the countrv, mostlv to remedv the lack of
higher level technicians.
38.       Research.  An early warning svstem for the management of FNEC and
LS concerning imn,inent disease outbreaks and resistance to certain drugs is
an essential element of the liberalized use of veterinarv drugs as proposed
under the project. Fuirthermore, there is a need to develop a
problem-oriented research capability to test available technology on the
main constraints identified under WLP. Tlhe project would therefore
construct and equip in Bangui, where reliable utilities exist, a central
veterinary diagnostic and livestock research laboratory to work in network
with the existing provincial laboratories in Bambari and Bouar. The
pro-leLt would also provide transport, operating costs and two staff-years
of cechnical assistance (TA) plus short-term consultants.
39.       Pastoral Settlement.  The project would support pilot settlement
activities to introduce a more rational use of rangelands, prevent
degradation and move toward the development of permanent sustainable land
use svstems (para 16). Settlement would also foster a better integration
of the herders in the national economy. The project would therefore
strengthen the Settlement Unit established under WLP to further guide ard
promote sedentarization in up to 18 pilot "settlement zones". This Unit
would be provided with four man-vears of TA, local technical staff,
transportation and operating costs at the national and regional levels.
A typical settlement zone would cover 70,000 ha and grazing rights would be
exclusively adjudicated to one or more herder associations which would have
demonstrated good social cohesion and sound financial management for at
least two years. Thus, of the projected 216 herders associations to be
formed (para 34) 20-30 associations would be involved in this pilot
settlement component. A cattle dip to control ticks would be constructed
in each zone to induce herders to settle. The herders would contribute 10%
to the dip construction costs ene pav all costs of operation and
maintenance; the balance of the construction costs would be financed by the



- 13 -
project. This is justifiable given the experimental nature of the
settlement component and the wider social benefits of a rational land use.
Further activities would include a functional literacy program and
demonstrations in forage cultivation for dry season supplementation and the
use of animal traction equipment. The implementation review (para 34),
w'tich would be carried out in the second half of PY3 after six settlement
rones with their infrastructure had been established, would determine the
definite number of dips to be constructed under the project.
40.       Livestock Development Fund.  A Fund would be established to
finance, during the project execution period, pilot tests of potentiallv
valuable technologies and LS staff reduction under the institutional reform
component and, after project completion, the non-salary recurrent costs of
LS. Revenues for this Fund would be ULSSO.4 million external contribution
and US$1.5 million in Market and Trypanocide taxes over the five year
project implementation period.  An amount of USSI.J million from this
national contribution would be used to finance pilot technologies and the
remaining US$0.4 million would be allocated to staff redundancv pavments.
After project completion, annual revenues of uSSn.6 million are projected.
Annex 3-3 describes these five LS components in more detail.
3. Infrastructure Development
41.       About 600 km of feeder roads connecting the high-density
livestock areas and livestock raising communities to regular markets would
be rehabilitated. These roads are essential for the regular supply of food
and consumer goods to traditional producers, to generate the cash they need
for such goods and thus create incentives to sell animals (Annex 3-4).
Assurances have been obtained that (Government would make adequate funding
available to finance the maintenance of these rehabilitated roads
(para 69(a)).
4. Project Management and Monitoring
42.       The proiect management unit (PIlT), to be located in FNEC, would
be a very light structure (two professionals) designed to support existing
organizational structures in project implementation, and wnuld he
dismantled at proJect completion. Tt would be headed b- an internationally
recruited co-director for four vears (para 48). It would be provided with
transport and expanded office accommodations, as well as with a small
workshop in Bangui and two mobile repair shops for the maintenance of all
vehicles and equipment in the provinces. This vehicle and equipment unit
would be headed bv a French volunteer. The PMTi set up under IL-P would be
strengthened through regular consultant visits. The PMI4 would focus on
specific aspects and kev areas of implementation e'fectiveness without
creating a costly comprehensive data collection svstem, and would be
incorporated into the LS Directorate General at project completion. Annex
3-5 provides detailed information on these topics and the methods that
would be used. Funds would also be rrovided to prerare a follow-up
project.



- 14 -
C. Implementation
43.       To undertake key preparatory actions and ensure a smooth and
efficient transition of TA personnel and activities from the ongoing WLP to
the proiect, IDA has approved a Government request for US$500,000 funding
under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). These funds are being used
to prepare bidding documents for office and laboratory construction in
Bangui, start the training of key Central African personnel, launch one
mobile team for pastoral organization and training, and ensure continuity
of several of the present TA staff into the National Livestock Project.
1. Institutional and Other Reforms
44.       An Action Plan adopted during negotiations would be implemented
over a five-year period (para 69(b)). LS would (a) correct the present
imbalance between salary and non-salary expenditures; (b) modify the
existing bonus system to better reflect individual performance and increase
staff incentives; and (c) reduce the number of hierarchical steps within
its organization as well as the total number of its staff. Annual targets
regarding the level of tax revenues, staff reductions and the pace of
reorganization, together with the broad parameters of the revised bonus
system were agreed. Details are given in Annex 3-6. In order to monitor
progress in achieving the goals of the Action Plan, disbursements for LS
operating costs would be subiect to review when thev reach the US$700,000
US$1,400,000 and USS1,800,000 levels. Disbursements for LS operating costs
would be resumed only if the Action Plan targets for the preceding tranche
had been met (paras 59 and 71).
45.       Financial Aspects.  The direct revenue system for LS would be
based on the existing system of Market and Trypanocide taxes and
vaccination fees starting at US$0.1 million equivalent in PYI and reaching
an annual level of US$0.6 million equivalent in PY5. Increased staff
resources and better controls would increase the recovery rate from these
taxes from the present level of 15% of potential to 50% by PY5. These
revenues would be deposited in the Livestock Development Fund and used
during project execution for staff redundancy payments and testing of new
technologies and, after ploject completion, for LS non-salary operating
costs for public sector tasks. To avoid creating cash flow problems for
FNEC, it was agreed that FNEC would retain 50% of these taxes in PYI and
30% in PY2. Beginning in PY3, the full transfer of these taxes to LS would
support the Livestock Development Fund without endangering FNEC's
viability. It should be noted that these revenues would be the only direct
contribution of the private sector to Government, as no customs duties on
inputs or export taxes on cattle are levied. These taxes are, therefore,
the most simple and effective means of recovering part of governmental
expenditures for the subsector. A condition of Credit effectiveness is
that Government had taken appropriate action to designate the taxes and
vaccination fees as direct revenues to LS (para 70(b)).
46.       Organizational Aspects.  The Action Plan provides for: (a) a
reducticnt of 37% in the number of LS staff over a three-year period; (b) a



- 15 -
reduction of the number of hierarchical levels within LS by elimination of
five provincial inspectorates and 45 subsector posts; and (c) a
modification of the present bonus system to reflect actual individual
performance, improve staff supervision and personnel administration and
provide a genuine system of incentives.
47.       Personnel Aspects.  Staff reduction would be achieved through
attrition, transfer to other services, and early retirement with redundancy
payments. Redundancy payments, amounting on average to 2 years salary,
could be combined with loans from the Agricultural Development Bank to
start modern livestock enterprises or private veterinary practices.
Government has agreed to prevent reemployment of staff having benefited
from redundancy payments. The Staff Reduction Plan has been developed in
close collaboration with the Government's civil service reform team and
would be integrated into an overall staff reorganization of MDR. To
strengthen LS personnel management and control, all personnel
administration activities, including payroll, would be transferred from the
Treasury to the LS Directorate General. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, from June 1987 onwards, Government would deposit all
salaries into the LS account not later than five days after the end of each
month (para 69(c)). LS administration would then be adequately
strengthened to handle the increased administrative load. The customary
bonus system for local staff involved in major projects--which now benefits
all higher-level staff--would be modified to benefit only those staff who
performed well as determined by an annual evaluation. Important criteria
in this evaluation would be performance in the staff retraining programs
(para 37) and FNEC local representatives' assessment. Furthermore,
eligibility criteria and levels would be unified for all externally funded
projects under MDR supervision. Tentative levels were discussed during
negotiations, and final submission of a uniform bonus system satisfactory
to IDA, and its promulgation by Government, would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 70(c)).
2. Organization and Management
48.       FNEC/LS Linkages.  The project would be carried out under MDR
supervision by the LS Directorate General and by FNEC, with support from
the PMU (para 42). As under WLP, the project would be managed by FNEC's
Secretary General and the LS Director General, who would share
responsibility for the execution of their respective work programs and
budgets with the internationally recruited co-director, as shown in the
organization chart in Annex 3-7. Further assistance would be provided by
the internationally recruited financial controller, who would administer
the finances of both FNEC and LS. The existing Coordination Committee
(para 18) would continue to supervise FNEC's activities and coordinate FNEC
and LS project activities. Work programs approved by the Committee would
be executed by FNEC's Input Distribution and Pastoral Organization
Departments (Annex 3-8).
49.       Within the restructured LS, the Director General would be solely
responsible for the overall planning of the subsector and for all control



- 16 -
functions outside the project, but would have joint responsibility with the
project co-director for all project activities. These arrangements, which
enable the Director General to share difficult management decisions with
the co-director, have worked well during the last two years of WLP
execution and should be maintained during the crucial period of LS
reorganization. The shared responsibility would involve the preparation
and execution of annual work programs and budgets, the development and
implementation of the staff bonus and evaluation systems, the authorization
of project expenditures, and the operation of the Livestock Development
Fund. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Secretary General
of FNEC and the Director General of LS, assisted by the project
co-director, would submit to IDA and all cofinanciers their respective
quarterly and annual progress reports showing actual and budgeted
expenditure, statements of financial progress, and objectives by project
component for the forthcoming period (para 69(d)). The Directorate General
would be reorganized into four departments: Administration and Finance,
Extension and Training, Pastoral Settlement, and Research (Annex 3-9). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the posts of LS Director
General, the two Regional Directors and the Head of Administration and
Finance would at all times be filled by staff with experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 69(e)).
50.       The operation of the Livestock Development Fund (para 40) would
also be under the direct responsibilitv of the LS Director General and the
project co-director. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, during
project implementation, Covernment would submit, before October 1 of each
year, detailed annual work programs and budgets for IDA's approval (para
69(f)). Each work program and budget would include advance requests from
IDA/IFAD for that year (para 60), and expected national revenues (Annex
3-6), and would provide details on the type, amount, and location of the
investment planned, the specific technology to be tested and the expected
beneficiaries, as well as the numbers of staff to be reduced in each
category, and the amounts of redundancv payments projected for the
following year.
51.       Technical Assistance.  Government is aware that technical
assistance is necessary to alleviate the lack of experienced local
technical and managerial staff. A total of 28 man-years (in financial
control and pastoral organization for FNEC, in extension, training,
research and pastoral settlement for LS, and in project management for
both), including 3 man-years under the PPF, together with 54 man-months of
short-term consultancy and 24 man-years of French volunteeis services would
therefore be provided. Annex 3-10 gives the background of the TA services.
Terms of reference for the TA staff are available in the Project File No.
225.990 (6). An implementation schedule is provided in Annex 3-11.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that IDA's approval of
qualifications and conditions of employment would be obtained prior to the
employment of IDA/IFAD-financed TA personnel and short-term consultants
(para 69(g)). The signing of satisfactory contracts concerning the
co-director and the financial controller would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 70(d)).



- 17 -
3. Present Status of Project
52.       Most of the current activities of WLP are already geared toward
the initial implementation of the project. This trend is being accelerated
under the PPF advance. Bidding documentation for the office and research
laboratory is being prepared and the first mobile herder training team is
being launched. Thne PPF advance will allow the TA staff of WLP to be
retained for this project, thus ensuring a fast and efficient initial
implementation. The modified regulation for sale and slaughter of
trypanotolerant cattle and the subsidiary financial agreements are being
prepared by Government, to avoid possible delays in Credit effectiveness.
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan
1.   Project Costs
53.       Total project costs over a five-vear period are estimated at CFAF
14.4 billion (US$37.3 million), with a foreign exchange component of 52%.
They include implicit taxes on locally procured items, but exclude taxes
and import duties on direct imports, since Government has indicated that
they would be waived. Cost estimates are based on early 1986 prices and
include physical contingencies of 10% on all costs, except technical
assistance which carries 5% and local salaries, incentives and redundancy
payments which do not require such a provision. Price contingencies have
been calculated according to Bank guidelines at 7.0% for 1986 and 1987,
7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6! for 1990, and 4.5% for future years for
the foreign costs, and at 8% per year (current inflation is 5.6%) for the
local cost component. Total contingencies are equivalent to 27% of base
cost estimates, or 21% of total costs.
54.       Project costs include US$17.4 million of investment costs, and
US$19.9 million of operating costs, US$10.6 million of which is
non-incremental. Details on project costs and on the relation of project
size to the national economy are in Annex 3-12. Project investment costs
represent about 10% of MDR's present and proposed investment budget. The
US$10.6 million non-incremental costs include US$4.j million from Govern-
ment for LS staff salaries, US$5.7 million from FNEC for the purchase of
veterinary drugs, and US$0.4 million from FNEC for its regular staff
salaries. These costs are included in the total cost because they form an
integral part of the project, but would not be externally financed. The
US$9.3 million of incremental operating costs would be financed by IDA
(US$3.3 million), IFAD (USS1.1 million), EDF (USSO.4 million), Government
(US$3.6 million equivalent) and FNEC and producers (US$0.9 million).
Goverment's contribution mainly covers local salaries and its contribution
to the Livestock Development Fund. Experience under WLP shows that local
salaries are normally paid in time and would not hamper project
implementation. No difficulties are expected concerning FNEC's and
producers' contributions.



- 18 -
2. Financing Plan
55.      Total foreign financing would amount to US$22.2 million, which
would cover 60% of total project costs and 83% of incremental costs. Three
cofinanciers have confirmed their intention to cofinance the project. FAC
has confirmed its contribution. evaluated at about US$1.1 million, for
experts, volunteers and some equipment to strengthen FNEC's pastoral
organi:Rtional and training de'artment and to assist the Bouar College.
EDF has made provisions for a zontribution of about US$5.4 million toward
the projecL to finance the FNEC input distribution and LS pastoral
settlement components, and the feeder road component in the eastern part of
the country. IFAD has confirmed its participation in cofinancing 25% of
the remaining components (US$3.8 million). The EDF and FAC contributions
would be in the form of grants and IFAD's in the form of a loan on highly
concessional terms. Effectiveness of the IDA Credit would be conditional
on the effectiveness of the IFAD loan and Government's agreement to the
first FAC advisor financed under the FAC grant (para 70(e)). Furthermore,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would execute the
EDF agreement bv June 30, 1987, or by that time would have secured
alternative financing on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
(para 69(h)).
56.       On the basis of these cofinancing arrangements, the proposed IDA
Credit of US$11.9 million would finance 32% of the total project costs (35%
of the foreign costs and 29% of the local costs). The IDA Credit would be
used to finance construction, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance,
and some local salaries and operating costs for the following: (a) MNEC's
administration and financial department; (b) FNEC's pastoral organization
and training; (c) LS extension, vaccination and staff retraining; (d) LS
research; (e) LS Livestock Development Fund; (f) infrastructure in the
western part of the country; and (g) project management. Non-salary
operating costs would be taken over by the Livestock Development Fund after
project completion; Government's direct contribution to LS would not need
to be increased in real terms (para 63). Annex 3-13 provides details on
the financing plan by project component and by foreign and local
expenditures (including taxes). A grant equivalent to US$2.5 million would
be made from the proceeds of the Credit (USSi.8 million) and IFAD Loan
(US$0.7 million) to FNEC under a subsidiary grant agreement between
Government and FNEC. The signing of this subsidiary Grant agreement would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 70(f)).
57.      Accounts and Audits.  At Credit effectiveness, and upon request
from the Borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$300,000 to a
Special Account to be operated by the Project Management Unit. Separate
accounts would be opened for the EDF and IFAD contributions. Government
would furthermore open one account for local LS salary transfer from the
Treasury and one account to operate the Livestock Development Fund. The
opening of these two accounts would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(para 70(g)); more details cn the operation of accounts are provided in
Annex 3-14. The LS and FNEC have fulfilled their audit obligations under
the earlier project, and their audit reports have been generally on time.



- 19 -
Government and FNEC audited accounts and audit reports, especially on the
LS salary account and the Livestock Development Fund, would be submitted to
IDA within six months after the end of each ffscal year.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
1. Procurement
58.        All goods, works and services financed by IDA would be procured
following Bank guidelines. Contracts for US$150,000 equivalent or more
would be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts below US$150,000 equivalent
would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) according to local
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, with contracts for less than
US$50,000 equivalent being awarded on the basis of quotations from at least
three suppliers. Procurement arrangements are given below, with amounts to
be financed by the IDA Credit in paientheses.
AMOULNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(USS '000)
Cofinancfers             Total
Procurement Element    ICB       LCB   Procurement -   Other    Costs
Civil Works            2,100      600 -    3,800          100     6.600
(1.500)   (500)        -            -     (2,000)
Vehicles, Equipment    2.100      600 -      600           -      3,300
and Materials        (1,600)   (400)        -            -      (2,000)
Technical Assistance,    -        -         1,700       5,000 .S-  6,700
Training and Studies    -       -           -        (3,700)   (3,700)
Operating Costs.         -        -          400       12,600A/ 13,000
Maintenance and        -        -           -        (3,400)   (3.400)
Local Salaries
Drugs                    -        -           -         5,700 e/  5,700
Livestock Development    -        -           -         1.500      1 'D0
Fund                   -        -           -          (300)     (3''0)
Project Preparation      -        -           -           500       500
Facility               -        -           -          (500)     (500)
Total                  4,200   1,200       6,500        25,400    37.300
(3 10     9            -        17 9o) fl 00) 
.-.__ . 222_            ..L2 _.L2)
a/ Subject to EDF and FAC procedures.
b/ Contracts of less than USS150.000.
ci TA. Training and Studies would be procured following Bank guidelines.
d/ Mostly salaries and operating costs of LS. IDA financing necessary
due to Government's extremely difficult financial position.
e/ Drugs, which are non-incremental, would be purchased by FNEC in small
quantities on the basis of criteria other than rrice alone. Direct
purchase from the respective manufacturers would therefore be
appropriate.



- 20 -
2.  Disbursements
59.       The IDA Credit (US$11.9 million) would be disbursed over a
seven-year period (Annex 3-15). The rate of disbursement follows that of
the Bank standard disbursement profile for area development projects in
West Africa, which reflects the project inputs more accurately than the
profile for livestock projects which is biased toward ranch development.
The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be distributed as follows:
DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
(US$ '000)
Percentage of
Expenditures to
Category                                 Amount               be Financed a/
(US$ '000)
(1)  Civil Works:                                                        75X
(i)  FNEC                                200
(ii) LS                                1,600
(2) Vehicles, Equipment,
and Materials for:                                                75%
(i)  FNEC                                400
(ii) LS and Project Management         1,400
(3) Technical Assistance,
Training and Studies:                                               75%
Ci)  FNEC                                500
(ii) LS and project management         2,800
(4) Operating Costs, Maintenance and
Local Salaries for:                                               75%
vi)  FNEC                                600
(ii) LS: b/
Tranche A                           700
Tranche B                           700
Tranche C                           400
(iii) Project Management                  600
(5)  Livestock Development Fund                 300                      75%
(6) Refunding of Project
Preparation Facility                     500                     100%
(7)  Unallocated                              1,200
Total                              11 900
a/ Of components cofinanced by IDA, pari passu 3:1 with IFAD.
b/ See Institutional Reform Action Plan, Annex 3-6.



- 21 -
60.       Disbursement against vehicles, equipment, materials, technical
assistance, training, audits and studies would be fully documented, and
disbursement against civil works, operating costs, maintenance and local
salaries would be against statements of expenditures certified by the
project co-director and the financial controller. Disbursement for the
Livestock Development Fund would be as an annual advance into the LS
operational account on the basis of the budget approved by IDA, and a
certified statement of expenditure afterwards. Full documentation would be
retained by FNEC and LS for review by IDA supervision missions and indepen-
dent auditors.
61.       Cost Recovery.  Herders would pay the full purchase and dis-
tribution costs of the drugs and would be fully responsible for the mainte-
nance of the dipping tanks. Through the Market and Trypanocide taxes and
the vaccination fees, producers would directly finance the non-salary
operating expenditures of the LS for its extension and vaccination
activities.
F. Production, Markets and Prices
62.       Annual incremental production as a result of the project would be
2,600 tons of meat and 6,000 tons of milk in PY5 and 15,000 tons of meat
and 26,000 tons of milk by PY20. The national cattle herd would increase
from 2.2 million to 2.4 million head by PY20, against 1.8 million without
the project, due to the prevailing high disease level (Annex 3-16 and
Project File No. 225.990 (5)). The export prospects for the increased
production are favorable. The increased meat production would be almost
entirely exported, making thus a significant contribution to the country's
balance of payments. West Africa is meat deficient and if the present
supply and demand trends continue, it will need to import 2.0 million tons
annually by the year 2000. Nigeria will continue to exert a strong demand
on neighboring countries. The actual farmgate price of CFAF 220/kg
liveweight is therefore assumed to remain stable in constant 1985 terms.
This price corresponds to US$900/ton of carcass, which is significantly
below the current world market price of US$1,500-2,000/ton c.i.f., northern
Nigeria; in addition, the Nigerian consumer prefers the leaner CAR product.
Most of the incremental milk production would be sold directly to villagers
or consumed in households. Studies are underway for a processing plant in
'angui, and the pilot, small cheese-making plant to be tested under the
project would also be a possible outlet. A stable milk price of
US$0.18/liter in constant 1985 terms (CFAF 80/1) at farmgate is therefore
assumed.



- 22 -
G. Financial Results, Economic Benefits and Project Risks
1. Financial Results
63.       For the herders who adopt the health package, offtake and herd
growth would increase by about 2% in PY5 and 3% in PY8, and the value of
their herds by CFAF 350.000 (US$910) in constant terms from PY1 to PY5.
For Government, a main feature of the project after completion is that
recurrent expenditures would not need to be increased. The cash flows of
both FNEC and LS would be expected to improve significantly under the
project, as shown in Annex 3-17. Higher drug sales would increase FNEC's
income, which would more than offset the loss of income from the transfer
of Market and Trypanocide taxes and vaccination fees to the LS. At LS, the
implementation of the Action Plan would result in a saving of CFAF 125
million and an income of CFAF 235 million for non-salary operating costs at
project completion (current prices). As a result, the ratio of
salary/non-salary operating cost would change from the present 99.5:0.5 to
about 70:30 in PY5 (CFAF 600 million:CFAF 235 million). The total burden
to Government, including adequate funds for road maintenance, would
increase from the current CFAF 550 million to CFAF 750 million after
project completion. This means that Government's direct contribution would
have to increase only in line with the projected inflation rate (8Z), while
the increase in the share of non-salary operational costs would greatly
enhance LS operational capability.
2. Economic Benefits
64.       The principal benefit expected from project activities is that
they would provide the CAR's livestock subsector with a viable
institutional framework for delivery of inputs and advice to producers.
This, in turn, would lead to the production increases detailed above, to
higher incomes, improved nutrition and higher exports. The project's
economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 15%. The ERR was calculated
by taking the economic costs of the project for the first five years and
operational and vehicle replacement costs for the remaining 15 years. The
benefit stream is the sum of the incremental value of meat and milk and the
meat value of herd increment that would result from increased fertility and
decreased mortality rates. Net present value (NPV), with the opportunity
cost of capital set at 122, is about US$7.4 million. The sensitivity
analysis indicates that a decrease of 10% in benefits would lower the ERR
to 14%, while a decrease of 20% would lower it to 122. A lag in benefits
of one year in benefits would reduce the ERR to 13% and a lag of two years
to 12%. Eliminating the research and pilot operations, and the
infrastructure component from the costs would raise the ERR to 20% and the
NPV to US$15.8 million. The major underlying assumptions in the cost
benefit analysis are shown in Annex 3-18. About one-third of the total
project costs would be directed toward the poorer strata. Project benefits
would be fairly equally distributed between poorer and wealthier producers,
with the former benefiting most from the settlement component and other
pilot activities and the latter benefiting most from the drug distribution
component. Annex 3-18 also elaborates on the poverty impact of the project.



- 23 -
3. Project Risks
65.       There are no major technological risks in the proposed general
animal health package. The veterinary drugs have proven their effective-
ness in the CAR and there is a strong producer demand for this package.
Drug resistance resulting from under-dosing by laymen--the only significant
risk--would be reduced through the training program for producers and
association pharmacists, follow-up by the LS, restriction in the number and
type of drugs sold, and the establishment of a well-equipped diagnostic
laboratory to monitor drug resistance.
66;^      Pastoral organization, and in particular the pastoral settlement
scheme, might be considered risky since these types of operations have
often failed in West Africa. However, climatic conditions in the CAR are
more favorable for settlement than in the Sahel, where most experience in
pastoral organization originates. Furthermore, initial experience under
WLP has been successful and the same approach of working within the
traditional structures by creating herder associations to provide a service
which the producers regard as worthwhile would be maintained.
67.       The major Institutional risk would arise from poor motivation of
LS staff and their lack of communication with the producers. However, the
modified bonus system, the LS reorganization including improved internal
communications, and a systematic control system of field staff would
minimize this risk. The stability and competence of FNEC leadership and
administrative and financial management due to the limited availability of
capable people would be a second concern. However, the revision of FNEC's
statutes, the recruitment of an experienced financial controller, the
training component for young herders, and the strengthening of the
Coordination Committee would consolidate and enhance FNEC's positive
performance.
4. Environmental Risks
68.       The project does not carry any substantial environmental risks.
The insecticide used in the cattle dips (Lindane) is considered safe for
general use. Precautions would be taken, however, not to pollute streams
with effluents. The tsetse control screens and traps made of pyrethroid
compounds are environmentally safe. Overgrazing would not be an issue at
the national level since the growth of the cattle herd would still be far
below the national carrying capacity. Finally, at local levels, the pilot
pastoral settlement scheme would result in better grazing management
practices and in the development of a stable and long-term land use system.
More information on the environmental impact of the project is provided in
Annex 3-18.



- 24 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
69.       At negotiations, agreements were reached regarding:
(a) maintenance of roads rehabilitated under the project (para 41);
(b) institutional reform under the Action Plan (para 44);
(c) deposit of salaries into the LS salary account (para 47);
(d) submission of quarterly and annual progress reports, and work
plans and budgets (para 49);
(e) the posts of the LS Director General, the two Regional Directors
and LS Head of Administration and Finance would at all times be
held by staff with experience and qualifications acceptable to
IDA (para 49);
(f) submission of detailed work programs and budgets for the
Livestock Development Fund (para 50);
Cg) IDA approval of the qualifications and conditions of employment
of TA staff and short-term consultants (para 51); and
(h) by June 30, 1987, the EDF grant agreement would have been
executed or the Government would have found alternative sources
of finance on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 55);
70.       Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) the sale of trypanotolerant cattle had been deregulated
(para 13);
(b) Government had designated the Market and the Trypanocide taxes
and other revenues generated by LS vaccination fees as direct
revenues for non-salary operating costs of the LS (para 45);
(c)  MDR had issued a decree establishing a uniform uOnus scheme
acceptable to IDA for staff in all externally funded projects
under MDR's supervision acceptable to IDA (para 47);
(d) the contracts of the project co-director and the financial
controller had been signed (para 51);
(e)  conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan
agreement had been fulfilled, and one FAC advisor had been agreed
upon by Government (para 55);
(f)  the subsidiary grant agreement had been executed on behalf of
Government and FNEC (para 56); and



- 25 -
(g) two LS accounts had been opened to receive Government
contributions for salaries and non-salary expenditures,
respectively (para 57).
71.       A condition for the release of each of the last two tranches of
the LS operating costs would be Government's timely and satisfactory
performance in meeting the Action Plan conditions (para 44).
72.       With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$11.9 million equivalent.
WAPAD
March 1986



I~~~~~~~~~~T LH~ 0 e  r
,~~~~~~~~Ij I    iii lI
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I iiE 88 
C                   Ii   -A  7
I                                      Li L.....                  ......              .....           



- 27 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LIVESTOCK IN THE ECONOMY
Livestock production contributed CFAF 36.6 billion (US$80
million) of value added to GDP in 1984. Three-fourths of this production
come from cattle, 10% from small ruminants, 82 from pigs and 6% froim
poultry. The large share of cattle is caused bv an influx of Fulanis with
their trypano-sensitive Zebu cattle from Cameroon, Nigeria, and Chad into
the CAR.
While the earlier Fulanis established themselves on the
tsetse-free western plateau, increased pressure forced subsequent
immigrants to spread over most of the Western and Central tsetse-infested
parts of the country and to develop a svstem based on curative and
preventive trypanocide drug regimes. The historical development of the
cattle population in the CAR over the last 50 years is shown below.
Estimated Total
Year                      Cattle Population
('000)
1936                            164
1950                            260
1960                            352
1980                            900
1984                         2,100
Source: Ministrv of Rural Development.
Trypanotolerant cattle were introduced in the CAR in the
mid-1950s. Because of their higher degree of tolerance against
Trypanosomiasis and skin diseases, these cattle developed well diring the
1960s and increased from an original importation from Guinea of 3,000 in
the 1950s to 15,000 head by 1969. Thev were disseminated under a
share-cropping system, whereby the Livestock Service provided animals on
loan to be repaid bv the farmer with the same category of animals after 3-5
years. The deterioration of the LS in the 1970s halted this activ;ty.
Instead, a restrictive legal framework was imposed (and still exists),
prohibiting all sales and slaughtering of trvpanotolerant cattle. As a
result, the total number declined over the last decade and now starnds at
7,500 head. The rehabilitation of this activity is important, as it is the
only cattle breed owned by the indigenous population.



- 28 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
Eighty percent of the meat consumed comes from cattle, SZ from
goats, and the remainder from the other livestock categories. Total annual
demand is estimated at about 36,000 tons, which seems covered bv the local
supply. Only about 24 tons of meat and meat products were imported in
1984, mostlv from France and South Africa, and mainly for the high income
expatriate class in the capital. Imports and exports of live cattle are
difficult to assess; official records for 1984 (which are rrobably
underestimated) show that 9,000 head were imported from Sudan and 15,000
head exported to Cameroon and Nigeria. Dairy imports amounted to 1,500
tons in 1982 for a value of CFAF 25 billion, or 12% of the total foodstuff
import bill.
WAPAD
March 1986



Annex 2-2
- 29 -                      Page I of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PHYSICAL AND SOCIAL ENVrRONMENT
CAR's climate varies from Sub-Sahelian, with an average annual
rainfall of 700 mm in the extreme north, to inter-tropical with 1,100 mm in
the central rart and to equatorial in the southwest. Its topography
consists of a vast plateau with gently sloping hills, cut by many streams
and rivers. Its vegetation consists of a woodland savannah in the northern
and central parts and equatorial forest in the south.
Geographical Distribution
Cattle is found only in the northern and central savannah with
the highest concentration still in the regions borderlng Cameroon and Chad,
the countries of origin. Thus, the western and north vestern provinces of
Ouham Pende, Nana Membere and Ouham contain approximately half of CAR's
cattle population. More recently, pastoralists have moved southwards and
eastwards to the central provinces of Ombella M'poko and Ouaka, which now
contain 17% and 9% respectively of CAR's national cattle herd. Trypano-
tolerant cattle are kert mostly by wealthv cultivators. Goats are more
evenly distributed, with the highest density in the central part of the
country. Sheep are kept in the northern rart of the country. Poultry and
pigs are mostly kept by villagers throughout the country, although a small
number of semi-intensive production units have been recently established
around Bangui.
Socib-Economic Conditions of the Herders
The Fulanis form a highly structured society in which the basic
unit consists of 10 to 20 families of approximately 9 persons each, grouped
around a traditional leader, the Ardo. These groups are normally based on
kinship relationships. Several Ardos pledge allegiance to the regional
leader, the Grand Ardo. The mayor of the Livestock Conmunities and the
FNEC district representative are recruited from this upper stratum.



- 30 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 3
Cattle wealth and income among the Fulanis are distributed as
follows:
Estimated    Estimated
WLP (1982) a    Bossembele b    Income         Income
(1985)      per family   per capita
Number of Cattle                          (Z) (XUSS)                (US$/yr)
Less than 50              25              14                750       138
50 - 100                  29              30              1,260       190
100-200                   29              4i             1,600        205
More than 200             17              15              2,380       220
a/  Carried out by the proiect Monitoring Unit of WLP.
bI Carried out by an independant consultant in the Bossembele Region.
Thus, if 40% of p-.r capita GNP (US$270) is assumed as the poverty
threshold, approximatelv one-fifth c' the population can be classified as
rural poor.
Milk from the herd and cultivated or rurchased cassava and corn
meal are the main staples. Because of the high level of milk consumption
(0.7 liter per person per dav) protein and caloric requirements are met,
although seasonal deficiencies (dry season) occur especially among the
poorer families.
A small number (1-10 head) of cattle is frequently kept by women,
who often also own some goats. Women also receive the revenues of all milk
sales, which constitute for the poorer families approximately 20% of family
income. Cassava flour is mainly purchased from these milk revenues. The
livestock producers, therefore, form an important part in the rural economy
and in manv remote areas they constitute the onlv market for foodcrops.
The Fulanis are becoming more and more involved in cropping. The
Bossembele survey finds that more than 50% of the Fulanis are cultivators
and the socio-anthropological survey found that 30% had settled
permanently. It is mainly the poorer herders who settle, as their herd
size drops below the minimum required to maintain the family and the
subsistence from livestock has to be supplemented by cultivation.
Expenditure patterns vary alsc with livestock wealth. Poorer
families spend a proportionately higher than average percentage of their
cash resources on food and lower than average percentage on both personal
and animal health. At the same time, the survey found that poor herders
spend more on a per head basis on livestock inputs and drugs. They also
have a significantly higher offtake than wealthy herders.



- 31 -
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 3
Herd Size             Annual         Expenditure per head
Offtake        of Cattle (US$/year)
(Z)          All Inputs      Drugs
0-50             16.9            3.75          0.95
50-100             12.3            2.50          0.50
100-150              9.4            2.25          0.40
25n-200              6.0            1.75          0.30
More than 200              5.7             1.35         0.30
Source:  Bossembele Survey, 1985.
Thus, the poor stratum would especially benefit from the proposed-
settlement activities, which would have a strong cropping component. The
vealthy stratum would benefit most from the expansion of drug distribution
activities.
VAPAD
Ma-rch 1986



- 32 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TECHNICAL CONSThAINTS AND OFFTAKE
Animal Health
Diseases are the most serious constraints producers face. The
main threats are:
(a) Trypanosomiasis. This disease, transmitted by the tsetse fly, is
responsible for only 15% of the mortality, but is probably the
most costlv in terms of reduced overall production and
expenditure on drugs. Except for the high elevated areas in the
extreme western part, the entire country is infested by the fly.
The main subspecies are the savannah species (G. mortisans) in
the northern half of the country and the riverine species
(G. tachnoides) in the rest.
(b) Internal parasitism. This is the main cause of direct mortality,
causing 35% of calf deaths and 20% of overall mortality.
According to a retrospective survey carried out under WLP, only
30% of the producers uses a de-worming drug.
(c) Ticks and tick-borne diseases (Piroplasmoses and Ricketsiosis).
The diseases cause another 15% of annual mortalitv. To control
ticks, there are about 30 cattle dips vith a capacity of about
10,000 head each. Most of them, especially those managed by
Fulani leaders, function well, although access to the dips is
sometimes accorded arbitrarily, favoring wealthy producers from
the same ethnic subgroup. A beneficiary's contribution of CFAF
15 per head dipped was introduced in 1984, which is used by the
Fulani leaders to purchase insecticides and maintain the dips.
(d) Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumcnia (CBPP). This disease,
eradicated from the CAR in the 1960s, rearreared with the recent
influx of cattle from neighboring countries and is now a
persistent threat, with occasional outbreaks affecting 5-102 of
the cattle population each year.
(e) Brucellosis. A recent survey showed a 25% positive bloodtitre
for Brucellosis in the western region and 10% in the central
region, thus causing a severe reduction in the calving rate.



- 33 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 2
(f) Pasteurellosis. Incidental outbreaks of this disease occur in the
wet season, affecting only a small portion of CAR's cattle
ropulation.
Rinderpest, which in other Western Acrica countries is one of the
main killers, was efficiently controlled in early 1983 following an initial
outbreak in the Ouham Pende province. Since then, three annual vaccination
campaigns, with a satisfactory average coverage of 70Z, have been carried
out and CAR is now the first Western Africa countrv with an adequately
inuunized national herd, that can limit its vaccination to calves. CAR is
also one of the few countries in the region that has instituted a
vaccination fee (CFAF 50 per head).
Feed Resources
Total grazing land available in the CAR is approximately
160,000 km2, which at an average stocking rate of 5 TLUs 1/ per ha, could
contain 3.2 million TLUs, or double the present population. Additionally,
the country produces annually 30,000 tons of cotton seed and 4,000 tons of
palm kernel cake which could also be used as livestock feed. Moreover,
starting in 1988, an additional 2,000 tons of molasses per year can be
expected from a new sugar plantation near Bambari.
Locally, however, bush encroachment and the invasion of weeds,
like Laos grass (Chromolaena odorata) partly caused by bad grazing
management, are becoming serious probl.. -:. Pasture degradation is
especiallv serious in the Ouham Pende and Ombella M'poko provinces and is
causing herders to abandon certain locations. The herders frequently cite
this as one of the more serious problems they face. Animal production iE
further impaired by the low qualitv of the dry season feed. The savannah
vegetation matures rapidly in this humid area, which is poor in edible
shrubs and trees.
WAPAD
March 1986
1/ One Tropical Livestock Unit (TLU) equals one cow of 250 kg liveweight.



- 34 -
Annex 2-4
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICA REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LIVESTOCK INSTITUTIONS
The LivestocK Service (LS). The Directorate General of Livestock
and Animal Industries of the MDR consists of a Directorate of Production
and Animal Industries and a Directorate of Animal Health. At the field
level it is organized into a regional inspectorate, five provincial
inspectorates, covering 15 sectors, each of which corresponds to a
prefecrire. These sectors are in turn subdivided into 45 subsectors and
182 veterinarv posts.
The LS staff has been well supplied with transportation and
equipment at headquarters and inspectorate level by the two livestock
projects.
The techrical competence of LS staff is extremely low. A survey
carried out in 1984 showed, for example, that less than 50% of the agents
could recognize the principal diseases and that only one-third of them
could calculate the correct dosages of the drugs against them. Added to
this lack of technical knowledge is a lack of practical experience in
giving injections and treating wounds.
Staff Training. Higher level training in agriculture is provided
in the CAR bv the Higher Rural Development Institute ("Institut Surprieur
de Developpement Ruralt' - ISDR), which trains in general agriculture with
specialization in animal production in the last two vears. Higher level
livestock technicians are being trained in neighboring countries (Chad,
Cameroon, and Mali). Middle level technicians are trained at the Technical
College of Bouar, which is supported by WLP. After its reorientation in
1982, the College now provides a three-vear course not only for future LS
agents, but also 'or private producers and private veterinary auxiliaries.
However, without other support- measures, their graduates find it difficult
to start in the private sector.
The National Federation of Livestock Producers (FNEC). A
private, fairlv effective association of Fulani pastoralists such as FNEC
is unique in West Africa. It has developed into a significant political
force in the country and although its image needs to be improved at the
grassroots, it is generallv respected. Approximately 60% of the herders
pay their contributions regularly. At the field level, FNEC is represented
by 15 provincial representatives who are mostly wealthy cattle owners or
traders appointed by FNEC's Secretary General. These representatives levy
the membershlp fee, organize the producers participation in the vaccination
against Rinderpest and often sell drugs and other inputs.



- 35 -
Annex 2-4
Page 2 of 2
FNEC derives its income from membership fees, marketing taxes,
vaccination fees against Rinderpest and from profits on the sale of drugs,
according to the following breakdown:
T'YFe of Income                     Rate                      Total Revenue
in 1984
Membership fee            USS22 per year rer producer           US$134,000
with more than 30 head of
cattle
Marketing Tax             US$2.20 rer head, sold at markets    USS 19,000
Trvpanocide Tax           US$1.30 per head, sold at markets    USS 40,000
Vaccination Fee           US$0.05 per head vaccinated           US$ 60,000
Gross Profit on Drugs    462                                    US$135,000
Total
The Slaughterhouse Management Company ("Societe d'Exploitation et
de Gestion des Abattoirs" - SEGA) is responsible for the management of the
slaughterhouses in Bangui, Bouar, and Bambari. The Bangui slaughterhouse,
financed by EDF, is currently slaughtering 35,000 heads per year or 702 of
its mdaximum capacity in its modern installations. Its hygienic conditions
and management are poor, and despite a reasonably high slaughter fee (US$10
per adult cattle), the operation loses monev. The slaughterhouses of Bouar
and Bargui are of much simpler construction and seem to operate well.
WAPAD
March 1986



- 36 -
Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE WESTERN LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Veterinary Drug Distribution
Total sales of veterinarY drugs increased dramatically since ANEC
was given the responsibility for this component, as shown below.
Sales                     Responsible
Year              (Million FCFA)               Entity
1980                  1.9                      LS
1981                 13.2                      LS
1982 (01-09)         13.7                      LS
1982 (09-12)        32.5                       ANEC
1983                54.9                       ANEC
1984               138.0                       ANEC
1985 (est.)        300.0                       ANEC
Assuming standard dosages and frequencies of treatment, the
following percentages of CAR's cattle population were reached bn the
project in 1984.
Insecticides against ticks                     20
Curative drugs against Trvpanosomiasis         22
Preventive drugs against Trypanosomiasis        1
De-worming drugs against parasites in
calves                                       15
Vaccination against Antrax                     33
Vaccination against Pasteurellose               3
While these coverage percentages are still low compared with the
total need, they compare favorablv with those of other countries in the
same climatic zone.
The percentage of herders reached by this drug distribution
system in 1984 was estilmated at 75% from a sample of 200 pastoralists in
the 1985 socio-anthropological study and at 55% in the recent survey of the
Project Monitoring Unit. The socio-anthropological study as well as the
1985 Bossembele survey found that drugs are being used also by poor (0-50
head) families. The budget study shoved that on a per animal basis, drug
usage by poor herders is higher.



Annex 2-5
- 37 -                          Page 2 of 2
Initially the ANEC representatives were the main sales outlets.
However, their coverage proved incomplete and the sales frequently con-
flicted with their other activities. A system of sales at village markets
through pick-ups was therefore instituted. However, even under this
system, scarcity occurs and salespeople tend to overcharge, as shown by the
PMU (Project File No. 224.717). A more comprehensive approach using
several types of outlets as proposed under the National Livestock Project
is therefore necessary.
Training. The field training program has had rroblems in identi-
fying the right target audience and correct course format. The initial
focus was on the sons of pastoralists, who were trained during a
three-month course to become private veterinary auxiliaries. This training
program was a failure because of the lack of an adequate institutional
framework to absorb these auxiliaries upon their return and the reticence
of pastoralists to have their animals treated by persons outside their own
immediate family.  Trainivg is therefore now focused on the traditional
leaders and their sons, and is closely tied to the establishment of herders
associations, which have their own revolving funds and pharmacies.
Approximatelv 400 pastoralists have now been trained. In the training
comronent of the redesigrked WLP, hovever, the results are less encouraging.
Graduates of Bouar College do not find viable employment options outside
the civil service. Government has now agreed to suspend enrollment of new
students over the next five years. The College still has msnagement
problems and low quality teaching staff.
Pastoral Organization. Twenty herders associations have been
formed under WLP. These associations have normally their traditional
leader as president and, with one exception, have functioned well. The
revolving funds doubled over the first year of operation, and several
associations have started to sell other inruts (concentrate feeds,
medicine) to herders. There is a strong demand from other herders for
assistance in forming additional associations. An adapted grazing
management scheme has been identified and its supporting administrative and
legislative texts have been drafted and introduced in one herders
association.
Impact. Although the overall impact of the project cann'ot be
fully quantified because data on tne impact of the drugs on animal
productivity are not available, it is clear that the Project has had a very
positive effect on production. The increased sale of drugs resulted in a
better protection of about 300,000 animals against Trypanosomiasis and
approximately the same number of calves against internal parasites.
WAPAD
March 1986



Annex 3-1
Page l of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TECHNICAL PACKAGES
The project would disseminate or test the following technologies
against the main constraints affecting livestock production in the CAR.
Diseases
(a) Trypanosomiasis. On a national scale more emphasis would be
given to the use of preventive drugs (now only used by 1% of the
rroducers) rather than curative drugs (now used by 222 of the
population). This preventive strategy is more cost effective.
On a pilot scale, the project would test flytraps and impregnated
screens to reduce the tsetse challenge. The acceptability by the
Fulanis of this new, environmentally safe iLethod would also be
assessed.
(') Internal Parasitism. An increased use of strategic de-worming by
the producers directly would be advocated nationally.
(c) Ticks and Tickborne Diseases. The construction of 18 cattle dips
in the pilot agropastoral areas, combined with a detailed
monitoring program and the testing of new technologies of
combining drugs and vaccination against ticks, would be
envisaged.
(d) CBPP. Circumferential vaccinations by the LS would be standard
procedure in the case of an outbreak.
(e) Brucellosis. A vaccination program by the LS in areas with more
than 20% of cattle with a positive blood titre would be
advocated.
(f) Pasteurellosis. Sale of vaccines through FNEC and direct
application by producers in high incidence areas would be
encouraged by the LS.
(g) Rinderpest. A national vaccination campaign of the young animals
would be organized annually.



- 39 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 2
Grazing Resources
(a) Prevention and Control of Weeds. In the 18 pilot settlement
areas, a simple grazing management scheme consisting of a
one-year defferment of grazing, combined with early fire, would
be introduced to reduce weed invasion and bush encroachment
(Project File No. 220.644).
(b) Weed Control. Research and pilot testing of low-cost herbicides
and application methods, including ULV (Ultra Low Volume)
spraying methods, would be included.
(c) Low Quality Dry Season Feed. Fodder banks, a low input system of
growing high quality leguminous fodders, would be introduced to
supplement the natural range in the dry season. This system,
developed by the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA)
in the sub-humid -one of Nigeria and now proposed for testing on
a large-scale ur..i!r the National Livestock Project proposed
there, would not only improve the feed quality, but also increase
soil fertility and could therefore be a major link in the
integration of livestock and cropping. The adaptability of these
technologies to the Central African conditions would therefore be
tested on a pilot scale in the settlement zones.
Other Technologies
Small-scale Cheese-Making: Following on the rather successful
cheese factory in the northwestern CAR, which has fallen in
disuse after nationalization, the project would test with simple
sets of cheese-making equipment the processing of 300-500 liters
of milk per day into cheese by some of the progressive, settled
producers.
WAPAD
March 1986



- 40 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
FNEC COMPONENT
Financial Management
In addition to the internationally recruited financial
controller, one additional accountant would be recruited locally and a
micro-computer would be purchased for accounting and stock control at FNEC
and for the finance and administration of the Livestock ServLce. Software
design and training of local personnel would be included in the purchase of
this computer system to ensure its adequate operation.
Input Distribution
The existing depot at FNEC's headquarters at Bangui would be
expanded with an additional 300 m2 of storage space and 6 pickups to renew
the existing fleet of sales vehicles visiting regular markets; equipment to
produce mineral mixtures and ointments would be purchased. The revolving
fund, created under the WLP (now at about US$300,0O0) would cover a six
month supply period in PYl and is therefore considered adequate.
The distribution network would be expanded with one depot and a
sales point in each district with a significant cattle population. They
would be large enough (100 m2 ground floor) to store other inputs like
mineral mixtures, concentrate feed and animal traction equipment, which
would also be introduced. The depots would be managed initially by
personnel paid by FNEC, but would be transferred to the district federation
beginning after three years. when federations would have proven their
viability. All transactions from the depots would be on a cash basis, with
a preferential price for the pharmacies of the herders associations.
Although FNEC would not get directly involved in the cattle
trade, funds would be provided under this component for FNEC to establish
20 simple cattle markets, principally along the Cameroonian border and in
the central part of the country.
Pastoral Organization
The four mobile teams would be key elements in the formation of
herders associations. They would approach the producers in two sessions:
an initial training session would cover the usage of drugs and
the need for the creation of an association with a pharmacy to ensure a



Annex 3-2
-41 -                       Page 2 of 3
regular supplv of these drugs; after two months, if the group so desires, a
follow-up session would formally establish the association and provide more
in-depth training to its managing committee and the pharmacist/
auxilidry. Following the experience in WLP, both the chiefs and the
younger herders would be represented in these sessions. and the association
would be formed, leaving the traditional hierarchical structure intact.
The herders association's pharmacy would be formed exclusively on
the basis of initial contributions of the members and thereafter from
profit margins on the sale of drugs. Other inputs (human medicines,
concentrate feed, and animal traction implements) would be added as soon as
the size of the revolving fund permits. Regular financial controls would
be carried out by FNEC's pastoral agents. Statutes for the herders
associations were developed under WLP (Project File No. 225.989) and are
considered adequate to initiate this component, although some amendments
might be introduced as more experience would be gained in the operation of
these associations. Following the organization of herders at grassroot
level, district federations of herders associations would be formed to
represent the herders in FNEC's General Assembly and take responsibility
for the management of district level livestock development activities, such
as the management of the input depots. Statutes for the federations would
be developed under the project.
Based on the experience of WLP, each mobile team would be
expected to establish 12 associations per year, and in each association an
average of 25 producers would enroll in the training program of that mobile
team. Another 25 producers, although participating in the association,
would not take training but through the pharmacy of the association would
have full access to all drugs. The following population would therefore be
reached.
Project Year
1       2        3       4        5    Total
Associations Formed                24       48      48       48       48     216
Producers Trained                 600   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   5.400
Committee Members and
Pharmacists Trained              96      192     192      192     192      864
Producers not Trained
but with Access to Drugs         600   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   5,400
Producers Reached Outside
Associations a/               3,300      300     400      400     500   4,900
Producers not Reached          17,500  15,200  12,900  10,600   8,200   8,200
Total Numbers of Herders
and Families b/              22,000  22,400   22,900  23,400  23,900  23,900
a/ Including producers already covered under WLP.
b/ Assuming an average population increase of 2%.



- 42 -               Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 3
Thus, at project completion about 5,400 producers or 23% of the pastoral
populatio- would have been directly trained by the project and about 10,800
producers or 45% would belong to a herders association.
In addition to the French volunteer, each mobile team would
consist of an interpreter and two FNEC staff (pastoral agents), who would
fully participate in the activities of their mobile teams, but remain
behind in that district for follow-up and control of the newly formed
associations as soon as the mobile teams move to a new district.
Progressively up to 35 pastoral agents would be recruited by FNEC to cover
the 31 districts with an important livestock population and the 4
replacements for the expatriate volunteers. These pastoral agents would
preferably be recruited among association members, but the required level
of formal education necessary to carry out the envisaged control tasks
effectively might require that some staff be recruited from LS existing
staff. Adequate pioficiency in the Fulani language would then be a key
prerequisite for recruitment. During appraisal, Fulani leaders and
Government authorities felt confident that between those two categories a
sufficient number of suitable candidates would be available, although the
mission feels that a somewhat lower coverage than one agent per district
might have to be envisaged, which however would not significantly affect
the success of this component.
Field supervision of this network would be the responsibility of
two zootechnicians based respectivelv in Bambari and Bouar. All salaries
in -his component would be funded initially by the project, but starting in
PY4, would gradually be taken over by the district level federations. The
project would further supply a stationwagon and didactic equipment for the
training expert and for each mobile team, two picklups for liaison between
the regional staff and the mobile teams, mobylettes for the pastoral
agents, and finance support staff and other operating expenses. More
operational details and specifications in material requirements are in the
Project File No. 225.990(1). Finally funds would be provided for the
professional and technical training at vocational colleges in the Region of
up tolO sons of herders, thus creating a basis from which future leaders of
FNEC could be selected.
WAPAD
March 1986



Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LIVESTOCK SERVICE COMPONENT
Animal Production and Health Extension
A two-tier training system would be instituted in which the
extension expert and the subject matter specialists would train sector
chiefs in 3-day sessions given at 3-month intervals, on specific topics to
be disseminated during that particular trimester. The sector chief would
then prepare the livestock agents. Visual aids would also be distributed
through this system. The livestock agents would visit the herders and
mixed farmers according to a prearranged schedule. Initial emphasis would
be on the correct use of drugs, in support of FNEC's program, as it
concerns an area that highly interests all producers. Other animal
production techniques would follow once a routine has been established.
Weekly control visits by the sector chief, the introduction of a reporting
system, regular monitoring studies on the degree of contact between the
producers and staff, and an annual evaluation system based on the
performance of this field would ensure that this much more structured
system would be implemented. To accomplish this program, the extension
expert and his counterpart, the subject-matter specialist and the LS
Regional Directorates would be equipped with a total of 4 stationwagon , 3
picktps and equipment, and provided with funds to produce extension
material (Project File No.225.990(l).
Subject-matter specialists in trypanotolerant cattle would be
assigned to Bangui, Bossembele, and Bambari. The regional specialist in
Bambari, assisted by a locally recruited ranch manager, would be
responsible for the operation of the Bambari ranch. The project would
finance feed, other inputs and operating costs and provide the ranch with
pickups and a cattle truck. However, modification of the Ministerial
decrees (2077 MDEL of June 29, 1967 and 39 MAE of September 14. 1982,
Project File No.225.977), which-prohibit all sale and slaughter of
trypanotolerant cattle into a new reglementation which liberalizes all
sales and only restricts the slaughter of calves and reproductive cows
would be necessary before any development activity could start.
The cold chain for the vaccination against Rinderpest and CBPP
would be renewed with 29 kerosene freezers and 110 cool boxes for the
veterinary posts, svringes, and sterilization sets. Starting in 1986, only
the calves (20Z of the total cattle population) would be vaccinated, as
previous campaigns have resulted in a sufficient immune level of adult
stock. The fee of CFAF 50 (US$0.10) per head vaccinated will be
maintained. Transport for the field staff would also be financed through
the purchase of 39 motorcycles for the sector chiefs and 160 mobylettes for



Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 5
the livestock agents. All field level transport material would be provided
on a lease basis to the agents to ensure better maintenance.
Retraining of LS Staff
The internationally recruited training expert would take the
position of head of training at the Bouar College and would work with the
training staff of the College in developing the curriculum and supervising
its implementation. This refresher course would be the College's exclusive
activity for the next five years, although the last two classes would be
allowed to graduate. As these graduates would not have the privilege of
being employed in the Civil Service, they would have priority in obtaining
a loan from the Agricultural Development Bank to start a modern livestock
enterprise or a private veterinary practice. The curriculum would be based.
on the task analysis of the sector chiefs and livestock agents made during
appraisal and on an annual evaluation of their skills and knowledge
(Project File No. 225.990(l). As the training would emphasize practical
experience, two weeks of each refresher course for livestock agents would
be spent with the producers outside the College.
The College would further be equipped with a bus, two pickups,
one stationwagon and didactic equipment, and a cafeteria would be
constructed and equipped. The management of this cafeteria would be
sub-leased to individuals. Per diem and subsistence allowances related to
the refresher courses would be provided and the revolving fund for the
demonstration farm expanded with US$10,000. A study would be carried out
in PY4 to determine the future role of this College, including the
possibil.ty of transforming it into a Superior College.
The proposed reorganization would require additional higher level
staff as sector chiefs and increased skills on the part of the professional
staff. The following table summarizes the training needs to be financed
under the project.
No.   Location           Duration  Man-years
Higher Livestock Technician        18   Superior             3 years    54.0
Institute,
Katibougou Mali
Veterinary Microbiology             1   IEMVT, Paris         6 months    0.5
Veterinary Parasitology             1   IEMVT, Paris         6 months    0.5
Veterinary Entomology               I   IEMVT, Paris         6 months    0.5
Agropastoralists                    3   EISMV, Dakar         14 months   3.5
Animal Production                   2   EISMV, Dakar         14 months   2.3
Total                      26                                   61.3



Annex 3-3
- 45 -                     Page 3 of 5
Research
The 400 m2 veterinary diagnostic and livestock research
laboratory would be constructed in Bangui, where reasonably reliable public
utilities, good international communications and the possibility of
scientific interaction with other institutes would provide a favorable
working environment. The existing provincial laboratories in Bouar and
Bambari, which do not have those amenities, would network with the Central
Laboratory, limiting their work to sample preparation and work on
parasitology, subjects in which reliable utilities are less crucial.
Starting in PY2, the project would finance for two years an internationally
recruited microbiologist, who would be the Director of the Bangui
Laboratory. The internationally recruited expert would work with two
Central African veterinarian counterparts in Bangui and one counterpart in.
each of the provincial antennas. The project would further supply the
necessary laboratory equipment for the Bangui laboratory (Project File No.
225.983).
The Bangui laboratory would also be equipped to test alternative
control methods against the tsetse fly. Significant progress has been made
over the last few years in developing small screens and traps which could
reduce the riverine tsetse species occuring in the southern and central
areas of the CAR without the bad environmental effects normally associated
vith tsetse control through aerial spraying of insecticides. To test these
methods, the project would finance the international recruitment of a
consultant in tsetse control, to work for two months per year with a
Central African veterinarian already trained in the subject. The project
would further supply one pickup and the laboratory equipment and would
finance the local production of 1,000 prototype screens and traps. The
same local professional staff would be responsible for a detailed research
and monitoring program for a technical and economic evaluation of the
effect of tick control through the cattle dips on cattle production. Two
man-months of consultancy each year have been included in the project for
this subject.
Pasture agronomy research would concentrate on the further
development of low-cost control methods against Laos grass and on the
testing of legume varieties to support the introduction of fodder banks in
the settlement areas. A local higher level technician backstopped by a
consultant for three months per year would therefore be recruited.
Research materials, like seeds, herbicides, and fertilizers, would be
provided.
Pastoral Settlement
The creation of settlemert zones, with the much more difficult
step of introducing rational land use and adjudicating exclusive grazing
rights to traditional producers, would be carried out by linking two or
more pastoral associations that have shown good social cohesion and sound
financial management. The construction of a dip would be the crucial
element inducing the pastoralists to settle. The proposed beneficiaries



Annex 3-3
- 46-                    Page 4 of 5
contribution of 102 of construction cos. is equivalent to one steer per
average family and is assessed on the pastoralists' willingness to pay,
determined by socia anthropological study (Project File No. 225.982). The
calculated fee of CFAF 15 per head for insecticide and maintenance of the
dips is already the accepted charge in ongoing dipping tanks. Alternative
construction designs for dips would be tested (Project File No.
225.990(3)).
A typical settlement zone would consist of the area within a
radius of 15 km around the dipping tank, which is the maximum walking
distance for cattle to efficiently use such a dip. The corresponding area
of 70,UU3 ha could maintain a minimum of 14,000 head or 50-100 herder
families, or 1 to 5 herder associations. The direct project contribution
would consist of the access track to the dipping tank (average 10 km per
settlement) and 90% of the construction costs of the dipping tank. The
mobile training teams of FNEC would be responsible for the initial
technical training of the herders; the Settlement Unit would organize
further training in functional literacy. Through the revolving funds of
the association, but not directly managed by the project, other activities
would be started, such as the sale of drugs for humans and staple foods
like cassava flour.
Other project inputs for the settlement zones would be of a
demonstrative character and would include in each zone the establishment of
up to three fodder banks, the control of up to 20 ha of Laos grass, and the
introduction of up to ) sets of animal traction equipment. The remainder
of the construction costs of the dips and the materials for these
technologies would be financed from project funds, on the justification of
their nilot nature and the wider social and macroeconomic importance to be
attached to settlement. Also, to bring about a closer integration of the
nomadic Fulanis into the national economy.
The implementation of the settlement would be entrusted to a
special Unit in the Livestock Service, which as a Government agencv, would
be well equipped to adjudicate exclusive grazing rights and to guide and
control the introduction of improved grazing management. However, the
settlement zones would be created in the Livestock Communities with Fulani
leaders as mayors. The Unit would therefore work through these mayors,
relying on the stronger indigenous structures to enforce that grazing
rights are respected by other groups. Satisfactory statutes for the
settlement areas were developed under WLP (Project File No. 225.989). The
Settlement Unit would, in addition to the internationally recruited expert,
consist of three locally recruited zootechnicians based in Bossembele,
Bouar and Bambari. They would be assisted by one higher level technician
per two settlement areas. The high level of staffing would be necessary to
control that grazing is adequately managed, and to monitor key parameters
in the development of the settlement process. Four pickups, three
motorcycles, and three motorpumps to periodically renew the insecticide
solution in the cattle dips would also be supplied by the project.



- 47 -             ~~~Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 5
Spontaneous settlement occurs throughout the zone (Annex 3-3).
Hovever, government projects and programs have generally not been able to
speed up or regulate this process in spite of considerable outlays of time,
money and expertise. Land issues, in particular competition between
herders and farmers, and lack of appreciation of the importance of cropping
and of animal health problems have been major causes of failure. The
design of the proposed settlement accounts for these past experiences, as
it would encourage settlement only in the so-called Livestock Communities
which in the CAR are uniquely recognized by all ethnic groups as belonging
to the Fulanis. Furthermore, cropping by the herders would be encouraged
and animal health facilities provided, thus enhancing the chance of
successful settlement.
Livestock Development Fund
The Livestock Development Fund would consist of a simple local
structure with a supervisory comnmittee of MDR, Ministry of Plan,
Statistics and Cooperation and Project and FNEC representatives. It would
not involve any additional staff. The Fund would finance: (i) the testing
of promising technologies on a pilot scale, and (ii) early retirement and
redundancy payments to LS staff retired under the Action Plan. It would
receive LS revenues and advance payments through the IDA and IFAD Special
Accounts for expenditure incurred in pilot activities on the basis of
annual work program and budgets approved by IDA. The technologies to be
tested would include: (i) the control of up to 260 ha Laos grass or other
weeds; (ii) the establishment of up to 35 forage banks; (iii) the
distribution to herders of up to 90 animal traction sets; (iv) the
distribution of up to 3,000 screens or traps for tsetse control; (v) the
establishment of up to 8 small cheese-making installations; and (vi) the
introduction of a health package for up to 25,000 head of sheep and goats.
WAPAlJ
March 1986



- 48 -                      Annex 3-4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
A total of 592 km of feeder roads, of which 85 km are in the
Bosser5ele region, 307 km in the Bouar/Bocaranga Region and 200 km In the
Bambar' region (Map IBRD 19233) would be rehabilitated.  The rehabilitation
will be low-cost (US$2,200-US$3,600/km) and would reduce the platform to a
width of 3 meters. Details of each road are provided in the Project File
No. 225.990(2)).
The rehabilitation would be contracted bv project management to
international firms presentlv active in the CAR and expected to have an
excess capacity in 1987. Supervision would be sub-contracted to
consultancy firms in Bangui. The rehabilitation would be expected to start
in PY2 with 192 km, continue in PY3 with 300 km, and be completed in PY4
with the remaining 100 km.
Maintenance would be sub-contracted by the LS to the Rural Works
Derartment of MDR or, if the present promising results under the 4th
Highway Project are confirmed, to small local contractors. Maintenance
would be financed from Government's contribution through the Livestock
Service Operational Account.
The main economic iustification would lie in the combined effect
of (a) improved access to existing livestock markets and (b) an increased
availability of consumer goods in the pastoral areas, which would generate
the cash reeds and thus induce pastoralists to increase their offtake. The
Livestock Communities, in which the roads are to be located, contain 352 of
CAR's cattle population or arproxinately 700,000 head. The expected
increase in offtake from the present 8.5% to 9%, if the roads were to be
rehabilitated, would signify an incremental revenue of US$0.7 million per
year and, therefo-e, justifies the proposed rehabilitation.
WAPAD
March 1986



- 49 -                     Annex 3-5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING
WLP's project monitoring unit consisting of a statistician and a
zootechnician, supplied by temporary data collectors as and when required;
would be maintained under the project. A total of 8 man-months of outside
consultancies, mostly in data collection and processing and in rural socio-
logy, would be made available by the project. Because of the unreliability
of data collection on migratory herds, where effects of certain inputs are
multiple (fertility, mortality, and production) and appear with a
considerable time lag, a system of time-bound studies on specific topics
rather than a comprehensive data collection svstem is envisaged. Such
studies, combining in-depth interviews of a small portion of the target
population with larger data collection of a bigger sample covering only a
specific topic, have proven to be an effective tool in formulating and
redirecting project strategies. The budget for the monitoring unit amounts
to US$350,000 or 1.5% of the total project budget. Specific studies now
envisaged, but to which other topics will be added are:
(a) Effectiveness of the Drug Distrlbution System. Drug
availability,prices, sources, and actual usage (dose,
appropriateness of diagnosis) would be determined for the various
income strata.
(b) LS - Producers Interaction. The frequency of contacts between
livestock agent and herders and the qualitv of the LS information
transfer would be assessed.
(c) Herders Perception of their Organization and Settlement. This
study, which would be part of the mid-term evaluation of the
pastoral association and settlement component and would involve a
trained sociologist, would attempt to assess the perception of
the herders about FNEC, the herders association and the
settlement zones.
(d) Household Economic Studies in which recall studies on household
income, nutrition and expenditure started under WLP would be
repeated every two years to determine trends of the various
wealth strata.
(e)  Pastoral Settlement.  In a limited number of settlement zones, a
more comprehensive monitoring system would be introduced. Such a
data collection system would cover approximately 20 herds and
herder families and cover the topics mentioned above, plus the
degree to which grazing management plans are followed by the
herders and the impact on range composition. The Monitoring Unit
would be assisted by the Pastoral Setclement Unit in this portion
of their tasks.
WAPAD
March 1986



Annex 3-6
-50-                     Page I of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND ACTION PLAN
Institutional Reform
The Action Plan for institutional reform would over a five-year
period: (a) correct the present imbalance between salary and non-salary
expenditures in the LS by instituting a system of direct revenues and by
reducing the total salary bill; (b) promote staff motivation by modifying
the existing bonus system so that it relates more closely to individual
performance and by improving supervision; and (c) reduce the number of
hierarchical levels in the LS.
(a) Salary and Non-Salary Ratio
The LS revenues to cover after project completion its operating
expenditures would be derived from the Market and Trypanocide Tax (which
currently are levied by FNEC) and the vaccination fee. These revenues
would be progressively transferred to LS, who starting at the beginning of
PY3 would have full responsibilities for their collection. To avoid
eventual cash flow problems for FNEC in the first two years of the project,
FNEC would still receive a 50% and 30% of the taxes in PYI and PY2
respectively. Present recovery rates of the Market and Trypanocide Tax are
extremely low because of poor control. The Directorate General would
therefore be expanded with one accountant and five assistant accountants to
improve control and to increase the recovery rate from 15% to 50% at
project completion. Compliance with a progressive increase in recovery
rate would form part of the Action Plan.
Staff Reduction. Future staff requirements in PY5 are provided in
the table below.
Staff Requirements
(PY5)
Directorate General                             35
Regional Inspectorates                        256
Bouar College                                  20
Pastoral Settlement Unit                       17
Research Service                               56
Non-project Activities                         86
Total                                    470
rn=



- 51 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 4
Estimated actual staff numbers and requirements in PY5 per staff category
are given in the following table.
Estimated Actual      Reg.Staff           Excess
Staff in LS          PY5              (Deficit)
Veterinarians & Zootechnicians    19                  24                (5)
I.T.A. a/ & Higher Technicians    27                  46               (19)
Livestock Agents                  267                222                 45
Vet.Nurses & Highe- Qualified
Support                          36                  8                 28
Support Staff                     403                170                233
Total                       752                470                282
a! "Ingenieurs des Travaux Agricoles"
All LS staff would be tested and evaluated during the first year. The
first year a staff reduction of 52, the second year of 70 and the third
year 160 posts is envisaged. By the second year only the number of
required staff would be retained. Excess staff would be administratively
transferred to a pool and would have preference should new vacancies become
available and would be subject to redundancy payments from the Livestock
Development Fund. A level of two years extra salary payment if the
employee has served at least five years and a 5% of annual salary for each
year extra and 5% reduction of annual salary for each year served less than
five years was agreed upon during negotiations. The implementation of this
plar. would form part of the Action Plan.
(b) Personnel Administration at the LS
The personnel administration at the LS would be improved by
instituting direct salary payments, and by establishing a regular staff
evaluation system and modifying the bonus system. The proposed direct
salary payment by LS was already foreseen in the ILP Credit Agreement, but
never enforced because of lack of personnel. The present bonus system for
local staff in externally funded projects tends to cover all staff and has,
therefore, become an acquired right completely divorced from the improved
performance it is supposed to stimulate. Under the project, enly 70% of
each category would receive a bonus and the amount would be decided on the
basis of objective criteria, such as an annual evaluation by the immediate
supervisor/chief of the Extension Unit and by the corresponding Regional
Director, an independent comment of the FNEC representative or the pastoral
agent in that district, and the results at the refresher course at Bouar
College. The Director General and the co-director of the project would be



- 52 -                        Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 4
responsible to further develop and implement this system. Tentative
monthly bonus levels discussed during negotiations were: Director General
CFAIF 100,000, Unit Chief CFAF 60,000; Sector Chief CFAF 30,000 and
Livestock Agent CFAF 10,000. Government will further consult on this issue
with the management of other projects and promulgate a system acceptable to
IDA as condition of Credit effectiveness.
(c) Number of Hierarchical Levels
To reduce the heavy bureaucracy and enhance the information flow
between the field level and the Directorate General of LS, the five
inspectorates and 45 subsectors would be eliminated, and the number of
posts reduced from the present 183 to 110.
Present   Projected
Directorate General                     1           1
Regional Directorate                    1           2
Provincial Inspectorates                5           -
Sectors                               15           15
Subsectors                            45           _
Livestock Posts                       183         110
ACTION PLAN
The following key administrative, financial and organizational
actions would be carried out under the Action Plan.
1.        Creation of Direct Revenue System for LS:
Government would furnish the following amounts to the Livestock
Development Fund affecting progressively the Market and Trypanocide taxes.
as follows:
(a)  Year 1:        50% of taxes with a minimum of CFAF 40 million
(b)  Year 2:        70% of taxes with a minimum of CFAF 70 million
(c)  Year 3:        100% of taxes with a minimum of CFAF 120 million
(d)  Year 4:        IOOZ of taxes with a minimum of CFAF 160 million
(e) Year 5 and
following Years: 100% of taxes with a mimfium of CFAF 220 million
2.        Staff Reduction.  Government would reduce the total staff of the
Livestock Service to the following levels:
(a) 700 at the end of the first year of the project.
(b) 630 at the end of the second year of the project.
(c) 470 at the end of the third year of the project.



- 53 -
- 53 -                 Annex3-6
Page 4 of 4
3.        Reorganization.  At the end of the second year of the project,
Government would have:
(a) transferred the responsibility for the col4lection of the Market
and Trypanocide taxes to LS.
(b) Reduced the number of inspectorates from five to two, eliminated
45 subsectors, and reduced the number of livestock posts from 180
to 110.
4.        Government's performance will be assessed at the end of each of
three tranches of the LS operating costs, and disbursement of the
consecutive tranche would only commence if goverrment has met the Action
Plan objectives.
WAPAD
March 1986



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Prolect Llnkages wffh Laestock Servce and FNEC
| Minwstr dof
Machet9ry Ceo                                    Gad BAn*/d
TW     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
DIr  C-AWt
Flnonckl
Conbolr 
;               ~      ~~~ Ad|Wto  Adminlifratbon|
&             Lloc  & Flnancel
WAPAD
March i986                                                Wornd bank-2768



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
FNEC:'s Prooosed O=qnlzaffon Chgd
_EE9
FNEC
r" dd
Secrtauy
Gerwd     I
Coordklifo
Cornlftee
U.... -___J
& finance                         &Ti
D~sic Agents                      DWIIC Depots 
CC
MMd Bor*-27669
WAPAD
March 1986



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock SerMce's Proposed OraanizatIon Chart
Mlnistet of
I~o Dea pmnt I
Sectgoray Geneol
MOile=lrrg                                                            E     n Iractio
Lei
Aouor Labortory          Bombot Lo
l_______________________                    lns  tion  West lns lto     East
Suctoii
Pcsts                                                                                             Psts
WAPAD                                                                                                                                                                                                       j
March 1986                                                                                                                                                                             V         Bn-27667    0



- 57 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The following technical assistance would be provided under the
project:
Long-term Consultants
Expert        Financing        Volunteers
(MY)         Agencies             (MY)
Project Management
Project Co-Director            4            IDA/IFAD
Financial Controller           5            rDA/IFAD             -
Project Workshor                                                 4
PNEC
Pastoral Organization          4            FAC                  16
Livestock Service
Extension                      3             IDA/IFAD            -
Training                       3             FAC                 4
Research                       2              IDA/IFAD
Pastoral Settlement            4             EDF
PPF a/                           3             IDA
Total               28                                 24
a/ The 3 man-years provided under PPF funding are for the project
coordinator, FNEC's financial controller, and the experts in
pastoral organization and pastoral settlement.



- 58 -
Annex 3-10
Page 2 of 2
Short-term Consultants
Expertise                                     Man-months
Extension (Trvpano and small stock)                 10
Research (Tsetse and tick control)                  14
Forage Agronomy                                      9
Planning of the Veterinary Research Lab.             1
Sociology (Pastoral Settlement)                      5
Small-scale Cheese-making                            4
Project Monitoring                                   8
Training and Pastoral Settlement a/                  3
a! The training expert (2 man-months) and the pastoral settlement e:,pert
(1 man-month) would return for a short follow up mission after their
long-term assignment has been completed.
Close cooperation with international institutes with specific
expertise would be sought in the recruitment of these consultants. Thus
the French Tropical Livestock and Veterinary Tnstitute ("Institut d'Elevage
et Medecine Veterinaire des Pays Tropicaux" - IEMVT) would provide
consultants in the areas of smallstock, trypanotolerance and tsetse
control; the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) would provide specific
expertise in tick control; and the International Livestock Center for
Africa (ILCA) would provide backstopping in forage agronomy.
WAPAD
March 1986



-  59 -                                       Annex  3-11
CENTRAL IRICAN REPUBUC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
lmptementfton Schedule -
1686             1Q67              4968               99           1 990               199           1992
At MC J      UN  JU IDEC JUNJAN JN AXLIDEC JAN JUN I A  |EC JN|JAN J   JUL IDEC JAN JUN| JUL IDEC JAN JUNI JLDEC  TJAN .lT
PROJECI PRESARADN F1C1
RiEC
TA *WAOum./sw ,.                                              a                              a a   aa
trut"kion Woo Cornputa
CorWnuctn P f a                                                       (9) _(1)
MO T.mru OeaIng                        _   (1)         (4)            (4)             (4)                 (4) _()                           l4)
WAe F_maA= (1)__   8_O                                                         _    481                   48             48    (6)
Trauma                                                                                                                         ( _   (AO) _ _  12) _  _  (-1 j00 I  I  _ 1200(_ _   (1
TAT,FSOOI R I _ _nI Ii ec cI II
TA La                                                         - _  -                - - -                    1*       1 1 -            I
TA frLdbar                                                                                 I I          I IIv     
TA kor      n SI.c                                      I I          I   I   _  U
I *xT*w of d S atli f Zones                     _            I2)    (3)                 (5)               5                (3)    I   I
o Zo,I-                                                 I   I   I. I   I                             4W I I  II
Ea~r Zae    '                                                                 8rn1
PROJEM                                                             L 
TA PO.Ct Cadmcto                                          - - --x- -                         -                   
0ficMCWA%10  Urwrnjd&t                      - 
Pmp2ar.on FdbilotgwTp
R.dLtaion in An LoIC LS  |                                    - _
700           I    3CI             470  I           4)0       1          47C
|   DiaR eve Wm enerama                                 CFAF 40m          CFAF 70m         CFAF 1F ACFA 0 I                   CFAF 220m
DobmorWl  LS     cab                                                       LS S 7L                                         USS            0 _4m
t     _        _       _                                                                           t|1  _    b_=[:
lln*ig .tal.  colplmflsDumei1Is of c esporwdng honche LS Cmmo nr Csts wOUld be We dlffvlnlg lof  twlg
Wo &mu . 3Y r
WAD
Mm:h 196



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COST StMfARY
(FCFA Million)              (US$ '000)                       Z Total
-      -        -         -       ----------------  Z Foreisn   lase
Local  Foreign Total       Local  Foreign Total    Exchmnge    Costs
,2=_,_   ===m       ========  Z=z=Z :       Zzz :--   =: ==-=Z    ::_ ::=
A. NATIONAL CENTRAL AFRICAN HERDERS FEDERATION C FNEC
ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE                                                  201     252      453       522      655   1,177           56         4
INPUT DISTRIBUTION                                                         570   1,799  2'369    1,481   4,673   6,154                76       21
FASTCRAL ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING                                          323     320      643       83?      830   1,&69           50         6
Sub-TotWI NATIONAL CENYRAL AFRICAN HERDERS FEDERATION I FNEC )               1,094   2,371   3.465    2,842   6,159   99001              68        31
f. LIVESTOCK SERVICES
[.(TENSION . VACCINATION AND STAFF TRAINING                              2,199   1.0/7   3,275    50711   2,797   8,507               33        29
RE;EFACH                                                                    465     388      853    1,208   1,007   2,215             45         8
FASlORAL SETTLEAENT                                                         511     451      962    19326   1.173   24499             47         8
:.T0CK DEUELOPIENT FUNDI                                                  105     375      479       271      973   1,244          78         4
Sub-Toteal LIVESTOCK SERVICES                                                31279   2,290   59569    8,516   5,949  14.465              41        49 
C. INFRASTRUCTURE
FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE                                  546     496   1,042    1,418   1,288   29706              48         9
Sub Totil INFRASTRUCTURE                                                       546      496   1,042    1,418   1,288   2.706             48         9
D. PROJECT DIRECTORATE
DIRE'TI JN                                                                  285     388      673       742   1,008   19749            58         6
CoNITORING AND EVALUATION                                                    81       72     153       209      187      396          47         1
VEIHICL7S ANP EWUIPP,ENT                                                    109     146      255       284      379     663           57         2
PROJECT PREPARATION                                                          5Y      123     182       153      318      472          68         2
Sub-Total PROJECT DIRECTORATE                                                  534      728   1,263    1,388   1,892   3,280             58        11
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                           5,453   5,986  ;11339   14t;U  15,288  29.452               52       100
Phssical Contingencies                                                        215      494     709       558   1,282  1840             70         6                C  l
Price Contingenries                                                         1,161   1,154   2,316    3,016   2,998   69014              50        20                  1_
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            6.829   7.534  14W363   17,738  19.568  37,306              52       127
_-r:_-: :-  ::_:_:  :===s:=z ===:-==: XXXs2-_ ====-x-__s  _=s=s_
WAPAD
March 1986



- 61 -
CMI=AL  AIUICAN RrFUILIC                                          n     3-12
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PPDIECT                                        Pags  2 =o   3
PRDJECT COSTS BY COST CATROR
(FCF4 Nlllam.)           cmS leot
-             ~~- K Fouls  Do.
Local Forelgn Total    Local Foen Ttal   Eachum    Cot.
1. INUBNI MSTss
A. CIVIL OmS
FEEIE R NS                                      563    391    954    1.413   101S   2,47            41        B
DuIIIIIMS                                        379    223    603       996    SN   1.565          3         5
CATTLE DIPS                                     232    137    369        603    m55    95           37        3
Sub-Total CIVIL MIS                              1.175    751   1.926   3PO!2   1D   5.0M              39       17
3. YENIMES NM E PINEIT
IIICES                                          201    672    9n         SU    1,747  2.268         n 7
EUI?llENT                                         16     52      As       41    136    176          77        1
9*Total VEHICLES NO EIIEWIT                        216    725    941       562   1.2   2d445           77        B
C. TEONUL ffSISTUE  I  13D13
1. TECIltC  *15ST1IICE
EIFW                                         296    959  1246         744  2.491   3s235          7       11
CUtlLIIT                                       69    231    300       179    59       773        77        3
PROGRESS UINITEER                              62     52    114       161    135    m            46        1
Sub-lot  TEOtUCAL SAUSITU5                       417  19242  1,U69    1.IB4   3.225   WM            75       15
2. TR*NIN
T1I3N*1                                       76    255    331        19      Mt    on           77        3
Sib-ToaLl TIRNIN                                 76    255    ;31        191     "I    IN           77        3
SbTotl    SCNI. ASSIMA ICES  TR1011                493   1,496  1.990   1.21   3 116  5 lU             75       1
3. VATERI.LS
VUIHIRr AM LABRTORY 11TBUELS                      5      36      41       12      93    1           05        0
OMRPATEItIULS                                     32    106    139        B2    276    33           77        1
gb-Total IATEIRILS                                  36    142    178         95    369    463          s         2
E. UDITIEG Me SINT
RE3EWam MD UITImNS                               10      35       5       27      91    l13         77        e
STUDY                                             46    152    19        119    36 n      14        77        2
SiTotal   ITINI c        STIJI                      56    187    24         145    4n7    632          77        2
Toal IWIESTHET CIETS                                19W    3.301  5.278   5.136  1.573  13.709            a        47
11. 1E1911 COSTS
A. Pnm L
FIResUIIE                                    20409       -  2.409    6256         -  6256           -       21
DIU                                            378       -    37E       982       -    992          -        I
Sub-Toal PIIMIIE                                2.797       -  2.737   7.239         -  79239          -       25
3. W1TIl COSTS
NNIITUIIIEM OF   MES                           161    395    55         419   1.025  19444         71        5
IATEmIAS                                        122    4U      Y9       332   .l1B   1.5310        73        5
USEWll   UOIWLDIIIIS                            24      14      37       6       36      97        37        0
N EI9WCE OF C*TILE IVS                            0      0       0        0       0       1        37        0
MUM LZMiI                                      211       -    211       543       -    54s          -        2
DM1                                             97  1.55l    1.641      25S  4.6   4.279           94       15
IWTEWTICE OF FEE   _M                           60    15P    219        156     413    569         73        2
IIIEIS                                            9      6      14       19      .6      36        46        0
9-Total WTII  CDSTS                               63   2 !  3.274 NM     190  6h715   1504            79       29
Total 1    hr   3ITS                                3.476  2.585  6S061    9.02   6715  15743             43       D2
Total SVELTE  tS                                     5.453  5.196 11.339  14.164  15.2B 29.452             52      160
"mical cotine    cioo                                215    494    70          1   1.212  1.30          70        6
Prin ComtUSmios                                    1.141   1.154  2.316    3e016   2.990  6.14          50       2e
Tol "AT   C1T                                        6.829  7,534  149343   17073t 19t518 37.306           52      127
WAPAD
March 1986



- 62 -                    Annex 3-12
Page 3 of 3
Project Costs in the National Economy
Investment Costs. The total investment cost of the project
amounts to US$17.4 million; the remaining US$19.9 million concerns
incremental and non-incremental operating costs of the National Livestock
Project. This level of investment amounts to approximately 10% of the
total proposed investment program in rural development for 1986-90. It is
therefore 'n line with the 12% share of livestock producers in the rural
population but below the 30% contribution of livestock to the agricultural
GCP. It also follows the historical rattern as shown below.
Share of Livestock Investments in Rural Development Investment Program
(US$ million)
Actual            Planned
1980-1982   1983-1985    1986-1991
Rural Development                            44.0         79.8        197.2
Livestock,                                    6.1          7.2         18.9
of which, IDA co-financed projects          3.5          5.0         17.4
Other projects                   2.6           2.2         1.5
Livestock Investment as percentage
of Rural Development Investment (Z)         14.0          9.0         10.0
Operating Costs. Since FNEC would continue to be self-financing,
its operating costs would not be a burden on the Government budget. The
Livestock Service would be partly self-financing. The total burden to the
Treasury, including road maintenance, woulc only increase with inflation
(at 8% p.a.) from the current US$1.4 million to US$2.0 million after
project completion. This means that Government's contribution (including
adequate funds for road maintenance) to LS would remain at 30% of MDR's
total recurrent budget. Furthermore, through the institutional reform
plan, the impact of these funds would be enhanced, as the non-salary
operating funds available to the Service would increase from the present
negligible US$4,000 to a reasonable US$570,000 per year (Annex 4-17).
WAPAD
March 1986



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(UB$ '000)
IDA         IFAD         EDF          FAC          FKC      PRONJEMRS   GOYERIIENI       Total                     Local
-.... .....  ..                             _ .                                 ----   -IExl. IAits I
Aount       Amnt  2   Aomt  2   Aount 2   Aount 2   Amnt 2   Amont  I   Amut   2    For. Exh. Taxes)    Taxn
S:=:::= ::= a:===-: a::u.n   nu -                 was:::   a: :::::. :ss  wawss  =s.  3555  Z.a   5 5    SEEN  =3 :5=   Z a      - -
A. IATIftA  CENTRAL AFRICAY  OERIS FELERATINI FREC
ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE                                                 716 49       239  16        --          --         510  35        -   -        0   0    145    4             919      574         72
INPUT DISTRIBUTION                                                               -        -  -1 771 22             --    6,359   77         971           0   0    9.227  22          6274    1,385         568
PASTORAL ORGMAIZATION MM TRAININS                                        1,117  54      380  19        -   -     549  26        -   -       34   2        0   0    2.093    6         11036      911        136
Sub-Total NATIONAL CENRAL AFRICAN IERKRS FEKRATION F(IEC                    1,834  16      617   5   11771  15      549   5   6,969  58       132   1        0   0   11,774   32         Si 129    2,970       776
So LIVESTOCK SERVICES
EXTENSION , VACCINATION MID STAFF TRAINING                               31749  36   1,239  12         -   -     51    5       -   -        -   -   4.970  47   20,373   29          3o431    6i092        843
RESERACH                                                                 1.t584  58     529  19        -   -        -   -       -   -        -   -      622  23    2,734    7         1.249    1,223        264
PASTORAL SEITEIrIT                                                               -        -  -    2w99   7         --           --         131   4      307   9    3.327    9         1.554      .2m        551
LIVESTOCK KEVELlPIIENT FUND                                                279  19       93   6        -   -       -   -        -   -        -   -   14067  74    1,439    4          1.124      16        129
Sb-Total LIVESTOCK SERVICES                                                 5.611  31  1960  10   2,999  16        516   3        -   -      131   1   6,966  38   17B74   4B          73U4    89723       1.797
C. INFRASTRUCTURE
FEEDER ROAD REMIILITATION AND MAINTENMAICE                               14543  43      514  14      723  20       -   -        -   -        -   -      816  23    3,596   10         19717    1.555        324
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTUE                                                     1.543  43      514  14      723  20        -   -        -   -       -   -      916  23    3,596   10         1.717    1.555         324
D. PROJECT DIRECTORATE
DIRECTION                                                                19572  69     524  23         -   -       -   -        -   -        -   -      167   7    2.263    6         1.324      919        121
MONITORING AND EVYLUALTION                                                297 59        96 19         -   -       -   -        -   -        -   -      11123         495    1          236       229        30
VEHICLES AND EGUIPENT                                                      625  75      209 25         --          --           --           --           0   0       834    2          482       274        77 
PROJECT PREPARATION                                                        4659           -   -        -   -        -   -       -   -        -   -        6   1       472    1          318       147         6     N
Sub-Total PROJECT DIRECTORATE                                               2.950  73      829  20        -   -        -   -       -   -        -   -      295   7    4063   11          24360    1,469         234
Total Disburseunt                                                            11,938  32   3.921  10   5.382  14  1066   3   6869  It1    263   1   7.967  21   37306  100                19568   14,617      3,121
ua::a:: ans  augurs *=n  nuns zns  mania ans  susan int  uasns :su  susn r::              sans     y=       ufnas s-----         mn
WAPAD
March 1986



- 64 -                    Annax 3-14
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT AND SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
The internationally recruited financial controller would be
responsible for the control and maintenance of the project accounts,
records and documentation pertaining to financial transactions, in
accordance with generally accepted international accounting procedures.
He would ensure that FNEC prepares an annual financial statement which
includes a balance sheet, income statement, and sources-and-uses-of-funds
statement. He would also ensure that the Livestock Service prepares an
annual budget and sources- and-uses-of-funds statement which would be an
integral part of the Action Plan. The FNEC and LS accounts including the
Project Special Account, the LS salary account and the Livestock
Development Fund would be audited annuallv by independent auditors of
international repute acceptable to IDA, whose reports would be forwarded to
IDA and the cofinanciers within six months of the end of the financial
year. The rerorts would be prepared according to Bank Guidclines for
financial reporting and auditing of projects. They would also include an
opinion statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their
intended puipose.
The Secretarv General of FNEC and the Director General LS,
assisted by the project co-director would be resronsible for the submission
of quarterly progress reports to Government, IDA and all cofinanciers,
showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of physical progress
achieved and objectives for the forthcoming period by project component.
Special Accounts
LS would open two accounts (condition of Credit effectiveness):
one for salaries and the other for the Livestock Development Fund. The
accounts would be opened in local currency at the BCAD (Banque de Credit
Agricole et de D6veloppement). Thev would be expected to be maintained
after project comrletion to continue to finance LS orerations. Starting
end-June 1987, Government would each month, at least 5 days after the end
of that month, deposit adequate funds in the salary account for LS staff
salaries.
The revenues from the Trvpanocide tax and the Market tax,
previously collected by the FNEC tax collectors and the sector and
livestock agents respectively would be solelv collected by the latter
starting at the beginning of PY3 and would be deposited in the Livestock
Development Fund. Withdrawal from this account would require the
authorized signatures of both the project co-director and the Director
General of the Livestock Service.
WAPAD
March 1986



CEMIRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
___,__ ......................... _
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJ ECT
ESTIHATUD SCHNDUIL OF CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(USSOOO)
IDA FY     Disbursement   Csumlative   Region-wide
and Semester  by seuester   Disbursement  Profile (%)
1987    II       614           614            1
1988     I       456         1,070            5                      l0
II       798         1,868           12
1989     I     1,026         2,894           21
II     1,026         3,920           30
1990     I     1,254         5,174           41
II     1,254         6,428           52                       '    Poe                     ,      eg                                    U'
1991     I     1,254         7,682           63                                                     Ar ea                  P f
II     1,140         8,822           73                      a5    Profile                         Development
1992     I       912         9,734           81                  cn   4,
II       798        10,532          88                       3-
1993     I       684        11,216           94
II       456        11,672          98
1994     I       228        11,900          100                       I
0- -- - --           X       .   r -
led?  il      I Il   logo    lii      lol      1;i3      1;14
IDA Fiscal Years
Note. IDA Western Africa Region profile fcr agricultural
area development projects; Harch 1984.
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31.
Project Year: July 1 - June 30.                                                                                                                N
Negotiation Date: March 1986.
Target date: Effectiveness October 1986.                                                                                                       ,
WAPAD
March 1986



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
HERD PROJECTIONS
(USS '000)
Yer I  Yew 2  Year 3  YrN  4  Yw S  Year 6  YNr 7  Yw    Yewr!   I SYw  16 Ye  13  Yw  12 Yer 3 Yew  14 Yew  35 Ya. 16 YW  17 Yw  I6 few 19 YwUas
Nord Camsition VMI)
Fils
Calve                   2M.      M 23.3   L 195.K   MK  197.0   2MK    254.3 21   5 .    207K0  2M7K    M9K   21 K   21L3   213.0  235.   213..  21L .   219.0  223    22LW
IHiYen 1-2 yr           145.51111  144       , 345.1   14.1  155.11  I53.3  135.    31.3   14,  16%    16I6K    167.0   1666.0   169     171.K  37  17I3.   174.0   175.   171.
Hi3fm 2-3 yr            133.    1313.    131.0   336K     3K  13 3.3 141.0   144.U   149.K M 154K0  154.  5 IS.N   15.3   157   K1   139K"  1366    1613.   162.K   164.K 105.55
H3ifa  3-4 r            125.   124.K   UL.    326.U  131.K  133.1K  13U.    13N          143K   3413   1346    149.K   15.K  35.K   I52K"  15LK   157.3  ISL.   ISL.   157.0
Cows                    75L3  74L.5  727.0  7856   712.3  715.   754.3  757.5   1133.   714.0   7233   721.3  73L.   73K    746.3  745.3  75UL   7U.    76L.   75111
bal
Calve                  2U5U   23.3  I9.K   19.3  197.3   216.3   24.3    59.   M1.*   257.3   2.54  235.5   23.    213.55  2M.  21L3   23IL3   239.3  225.   22
nm 1-2yr                125.K   ILK    1o.3"  1413.   342.3  14H   IS."   IS3.   IS3K   157.3  157.0   3591.   166.0   1613.   162.   36L.3  164.3  165.3  166.   16L3
Hear 2-3 yr             33L.   33L.   121323.   126.0   32.   131.N  134.0  1335.    143.3  143.3   34           1345    3" 147.3   47.3  13463   149.   IS3N   151.3 IS     IS  3 53.3
#Sinr. 3-4 yr            sUs    97.3    L.K   13.M 3     MN 114  16l    11L3   12ML3   124.3  12LZ   123.   S 32 13L 13 3 33   131.11  33.   I33.   134.3  135.0  136.N   137.3
Urn 4-5 yr               75.3   62.    6         55.3 t    .K    9 9 7. 3    S. .    13.3   3 2.3  366.3   33.311  5. IL  133.3   333.3   3323   332.   113.0   3 114.0  I3lS   316
ars 5-4 yr               5S3   45te      49.*S.t 3    47.311t  49.3    11.55   533 5t.K1   52.3    l 5 3.3   1L3  s5.    sat   U.K    5K    56.3 5sa              57.31111t  57.tt   57.31
Ste    6-7 yr            3t.3te   aK    25.31111  8.K tte   E    24.t   25.3    273    26.n   26N   25l    26.3    27.    27.3t V.          .3        t 5.3   e IL"  tt     55   2S5 5
SRt 7- yr               IL5.    I1.3t  IL.3   34.3    15.         L       IM i2          l1I 133    33  53  37.t 17.1    17.3    37.3   ILttt   ItlI t L6    t13    3IL3    3L"    I3Lt
Total              21t5.  2S0.0  2594.3  237.3  2179.3  23E66.  214.30  2375.3  265.3  2224.3  2243.  225.3  2275.0  22911.3  26L5  2321.3 27.   2313.  236tS3  23tl4.311
FertilIty 4tr 111         .53 t.    S 6.54    L54    6. 5  6.56    6.57    5.56    6.56    t6.    6.56    6.5        1 1.5 l 5.1    5.15 6 .5 5    L5B    5.3      ILM    tt-    tLS
etality Rate 353
rl.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Calvns                    6.21    1.26    5.24    1.23    L.22    L.21    6.21    6.21    L21    5.21    5.21    6.2a    L.21    L21    1.21    L.21    L.3    5.21    L.21    L.25
Hafes I-2                 6.16   Lt9    1.t        Li?67    6.5t6    6.tt6   Ul   1.56    ttl6    L.tl     556 5    L6    5.t6       K .   l       LK      Lt6    Lt tt6    L 6    Ltt6
Wifwe2M                   LO t     5l ttl4    L.t4   tlt4    5.54    L.54    6.44    L4    LIN    L.6l4    L.54   6tt4    L.t4   tlt4   Ul54    6.54                t tl4    tt L4    Lt4
Calv                      L.32     .A3    L.2     5.27    L26    tt25    1.24    6.24    1.24    1.24    1.24    5.24    L.24    6.24    0.24    5.24    L.24    6.24    6.24    L24
1ull 3/Stnrs 1-2 yr       5.32    5.33    5.35    S.59    L.K     L.K     6.3    L.3      L.       L  L.3L6.3      LtM             5.3     5.K     LO3    5.K      LK      LOB    Los
Uuils.ites 2-3 yr         6.1    L.6    *5tt      *(6    LO S       5 *    .(5    L.59     L *.t6    6. S  .t5 9    .0 L6.  5      6.5L    5.t5    t5. t    5t    t .t5    t5t      LE59
BIlls3Ster, 3-4 yr        6.65   L.Ot    5.t5    L.15    L.59   5.t5    5.(5    L5.    5.5    5.O9    L5.5         L5.5    L5. tt6    A.t6         L5.5    5.59    L5.5    L5.5 Lt5t
hlus/lt   on  4 yr       5.59 6.5        L5.5    *.t5     .596   L.5     6.59    6.59     t5     L5 s      .a5    L.I    5.c    5.05    t.a       L5      65 .a            LO59 Lt5.
Dhth  '66)             m2.2   225.3   39.65  167.3   362.3   161.3   36L5    3."  11164.31  l36.   36.   36L3   389.3  319.3  I3                 313.0  194.6   39L3   397.3  39.3
kils  '363              17.   362.30  1163.    154.3  395.0   193.0   396.3  265         212.3  2134.   215.3  225.3  222.3  223.3   25.    621. 22        6.3  69.3  231.3  233.
Offtaka                   L5.     L.      9.0     9.0     9 .3    9.21    9.21    9.21    9.65    9.66    9.75    9.75    9.3111   9.3     9.      9.3    93       9.3    9-.    9.3
Offakie * Imerautal      L5S      L51    L4       9.35    9.3    9.3    9.96    9.91   3L.66   35.35   16.35   1L.21   35.21   16.21  I326   3L.21   I2    16.25  136.21    5.3
- 1rcrotal Lti*lt    5.3  26LIM3  46130  46135.3  s553.3  6159.3 n       9M.3 3432.3 1563.3 17367.3 19464.3 2S665 22431.1123664.t5 L63265M7.3 27s2n   2a776.3 312.0 31e76 
Productt Iornmee
- l3r ntal Milk           L.  3I33.3  2464.0  563.   5996.3  9547.3 3134.3 14254.0353L.336.1702.0 I3 2.3 I34.  19964.e 21                   .32395 2    2172. 234.4 24794.0 2571L5
Produtlion ITo,)
WAPAD
March 1986



Annex 3-17
- 67--                     Page 1 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Producers. The producers benefits were analyzed for three
different production units with an average herd size of 120 head. The
models are (i) without project; (ii) with adoption of a full animal health
package, except for the major investment in a dip; and (iii) with adoption
of full animal health package, including a dip, and the establishment of a
fodder bank. The third unit Is presented onlv for comparative purposes
since the project would only introduce the use of fodder banks on a pilot
scale. The underlying technical and financial assumptions are in Project
File No. 225.990(5).
The strong economical incentive for the producers to adopt the
proposed health package would justifify its general dissemination. The
preliminary estimate of the financial rate of return of the whole package,
although yielding lower returns than the animal health improvements only,
at 34% fully justifies further testing. Moreover, this package most likely
will generate additional benefits in revenues from labor, which would be
released from manual deticking with the dips, and from increased crop
yields from improved soil fertility because of the fodder banks.
Livestock Service Cash Flow. The Livestock Service cash flow
benefits from increased revenues, taxes and vaccinations fees. The agreed
upon Action Plan proposes a staff reduction of 280 posts over the first
three vears of project execution. An average severance payment equal to
two years of salarv for regular staff (US$3,500) and 6 months for de facto
permanent support staff (US$350) are included for each staff. This would
result at the end of PY3 in a salary saving of US$360,000 (CFAF 144
million) in 1985 prices. However, a progressive filling of higher level
post through promotion within the LS in the last three vears of the project
would cost USS200,000 (CFAF 80 million), resulting in a net saving of
US$160,000 (CFAF 64 million). With the applicable inflation rate of 8% the
total salary bill would have increased from the present CFAF 550 million to
CFAF 750 million at the end of PY5 (project completion). Under the Action
Plan, the salary bill would stand at CFAF 600 million and Government's
contribution to the rehabilitated livestock feeder roads at CFAF 150
million. Thus, Government's contribution would not have to be increased
beyond the increases due to inflation. Furthermore, the Action Plan would
cause a direct revenue of the LS for non-salary operating costs of CFAF 220
million (US$570,000), thus giving the LS the appropriate means to operate
efficiently. Road maintenance could be expected to start in PY2 and is
calculated on assumptions in the Project File No. 225.990(2).
FNEC Income Statement and Cash Flow. An analvsis of ANEC' past
and projected cash flow shows that the transfer of the revenues from the



- 68 -               Annex 3-17
Page 2of 6
Market and Trypanocide taxes from FNEC to the LS, and the proposed
retention of 30X of the membership fee by the herders association would not
affect ANEC's financial viabilitv. It further shows FNEC would be able to
assume full responsibility for its Pastoral Organization Department in PY5
and, if salarv pavments of the district agents would be taken over by the
District federations as foreseen, that FNEC could assume responsibility for
technical extension as part of the long-term strategy.
WAPAD
March 1986



CENIA   AFRICIA  REUEIC
NATKNAL Lr*n   PFA
PKMUER CAS FU
(CRAP '0000COtant Pricem)
CASE 1: HEI PACM   (LY
YR      YR     YR      YR     YR     YR      YR     YR     YR      YR     YR     YR     YR    YR      YR    YR       YR     YR     YR      YR
1       2      3      4       5      6       7      8      9      10     11     12      13    14     15    16       17     18     19     20
A. Cush Flow
1. S
meat         1021    1055   1041   1047   1049   1074   1174   1218   1311   1353   1395   1436   1478  1514   1552   158;   1624   1661   1700   1739
mllk           56      57     60      62     63     67      69     70     72      74     75     77      79    81     82     84      86     88     90      92
Subt Cash Inflow 1077    1112   1101   1109   1112   1141   1243   1288   1383   1426   1470   1513   1556  1594   1634   1672   1710   1750   1790   1831
B. Cash Gutflw
1. Cqpltal exp.                                                                                                                                                       so
2. Oper. Es.
deworuuiz               3      3       3      3      3       3      3      3       3      3      3      4      4      4      4       4      4      4       4
vwec1iat1on             4      4       4      4      4       4      5      5       5      5      5       5     5      5       5      6      6      6       6
innctiel               36     37     37      38     39     41      42     43     45      46     47     48    49      50     51      53     54     55     56
trypaioclde            14     15      15     15     16      16     17     17      18     18     19      19    20     20     21      21     22     22     23
terrLamci              28     28     29      29     30     31      32     33     34      35     36     37    38      38     39      40     41     42     43
Subt Cbi Outflow            85     86      88     90     92      96     99    102    105    107    110    113   115    118    121    123    126    129    132
3. CASH   LNACE   1077    1026   1015   1021   1022   1049   1147   1189   1781   1321   1363   1403   1444  1479   1516   1551   1587   1623   1661   1699
Iwch 1906
0I'
1i -4



-70-                                          M     3-17
COrIVAL AMqW_RRS"~rag  A  f 
Cnna LeNs C
' w0 s We  t llis se
1112 or FIRe                                                             as -  less              ton     u.aS
I     AsisAN  0AL                                                                        0     i
mmn ai                                                                               .
CATTLE                                 10.0          10.0            2.7           ILl 5
mIC                                                                 0..
,TALL ,AnS                                        12.1          06.9          21..           111.1
cmIJ2C Tlm                                                          51 .1          11.0
siemm                                                12.5            i.e                dl
49.4          12.9                 di 
TUlL smallt                                       0.0           A1.           14.2            11.7
T a le elS 
TWllWoCCot                             2.e           17.4           17.1           221 -
CATTZISNl                                            29.1           10.1           11.0 -
-                                      n..           i..            03.- '1.e S/
TOTNL TS MO  S                                   9e1.          *9..            .5.s          am..
CAST O2 FM  PUTnI M1O1                            0.5           90.0           1.0             s.8
tTAmL S39,.1                                                              302.1         437.1      x     01.2
LAW
3.9           0.2            12.0 11
0rFAA                                                 0.1           WO.             *.O-
CaDS PAS                                              0.1           34.0
.:SA. Alm tglan                         .             '.1           to..            4.-
VatCLI                                 o.o           22..            G.e           29.L
TOTAL rl= ASaM                                    a..           35.?         107.:             4.
aps t ,^o,lo.LL 310121N3
cin,nmes  wommti                                                                                  nl
u3.                                    0.5           10..           21.9           31.8e
111MTfAI   ALV -                       0.5           3. l5 
,.eC cm                                0.9            2.2            i.e           10aokl
J11Ca OL     a m AI?                    .            221.9          2.0              .-
SUDIS CPU AMAZE?             ~~~~~0.5       2.2            5.9           11.9
mm                                     0.9            1.9            0.1               oi
gmJsnas                                0.0                           3.2            1.4
.-1rimlxzATTM Macon                     1.2           2.2           12.2            8.02'
_nATen                 a2.0                          3.1           10.1           16.2
A-UAUKT      rr5                       0.1            0.1            1.1            2.0 J
M    .SCE.ASU                          0..            1.6            0.0            J.a 5/
CM. OPUaTSS.L L1n                                 20.9          44.9          102.9          241.'
man,                                   20.7         1s.3  M/ a.e/Al               20.3 1
FAMAD SALT
CAK                                    29.9          14.            2.9
.eZ                                                                  0.1
tt AL. HAUCAK                                    47.3          143.2          lei..          Om.,
am                                                    0.1            1.9            G..
3101NI    TAX                           0.0           1.0            1.5            Z.,
ChArE I r TAX                           1.            2.             1.             2.3
oQ                                                    G..            .             12.5
VAC 9L=NS                                                                          20.0
trAL ISL                                           .2. 5.2                      9.1    '       5.-
CAM ova TO IC    1c3  1KA1 W0.0                                 13.0          129.0         10 .
TOUTA     3r mm                                            140.5          101.2          37.15          003.1
*I  Confl id by FlAt' a expatrate aCcountnt.
bl  Projcted estiate from   * ntbe actual   1e, figures prov:ded by lLP.
el  a-ad on past trends.  t L. aesumed that only 252 of the value of the non-trvpanotulrat cattle
to be oId viii be recorded.
di Subsidy of drugs only vntil Juv   1968.
;i  A 152 Intcrese l   aeued from June 1985.
1  Dae ttc a large diecrepacy betwen 1983 and 198 figure.. the average of the two ye-rs has be n
taken for 1985.
Ai  About 1.1 million cattle la to be vacciated.
h/  Purchee cost hlgber tha  sale. value becm    of inventory bulld-up.
T1/ Altboug  CQAF 6.3 million ha been actually epent in che first 5 motha. bullding Ia expected to
be completed In 1985 at the coat of 12 million.
j  Fve wnthb  actual projected for the year.
ki   lieeione estimte.
1J  Asmu_s  -  caer  will he bought after April 1995.
at  Prom FlBCe- proavisa"l budget.
/ lssaon' estimate based on projected expenditures Itnluding mount expected for AY8C'* annual  eeting.
of  hbed on  2EC a provicional budget and the projected eutimatee baed on 5 month  of actual expenditures
Me tbh  lta_  not ncludd In the provisional budget.  In che caaa of cattle fend  the five moth actual
s used and it in -. ;d  that It would not be used to purcbse   ny are  feet. use legal repreatation.
buy work clothes ant pay tax oan vhcle. ln 1985.
AsumAee the sane discrepancy   ill contiu  as in previous years whre bonuae  re glin to the tax and
fee colletors proportionate to the amunt of money colleted.  The ahare Is ununed to be 152.
i Fifty percent of the vaccination fee Is given to LS.
r   198t wae an anceptional yer due to the Inauguration of the ANEC building.
arch 198U



- 71 -                                                         Annex 3-17
VENTRAL AMCR KEOUIC
A   c CAuK Flow
(CrAr sillims. eurrut price. nI-M. thlmsftar Csnatut ITS pries)
nI       m        Fn       Po        ins      no        "I       ne       ns        meo
SES
om6~ 0/                                *16.1     81.T    75T7.1   898.1   1007.0   001.9   1061.9  1001.0  1007.0   610.9
MAiTN  AM6AL  1/                         0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.1       0.1      0.7      0.1       0.1      0.7
cn
RICQ
TOT    SALLUS                                       016. 2    015.0    757.5   898.a   1008.6   106.b   1008.6  108.0   1006.0  1006.0
mart msuirozts
15XfW                                 1215.    111.1   213.3
sq1Inet                                 57.2
Vl!NlZS                                 oz2.1    15.0      20.0    100.1     61.4
S .AlY C/                               21.1      10.1     03.3     38.0     35.8
TCHICAL ASSISTArI                      12.1    13.6   1305.0    151.0       70.0
AIDEIAL                                 25.5      11.1
oAfelAL CaMsr                          2U.6      21.2      10.1     33.6     33.3
TOTAL S1DSUll0                                      292.1    180.8    283.5    100.1      83.2
TAXES AMI rlCS
TRYP*leCIOE                             20.0      15.0
CATLE  AR                               20.0      15.0
pm     Smp      h/                       6.7    103.6    127.5    105.1    231.0    133.5    000.8    756.7  1190.9   1919.8
TOTAL .x7   AND DljES                               126.7    111.6    121.5    105.1    211.0    113.5    090.8    756.7  1190.9   1939.8
CANSF OM  Ffl PREVIOIUS YEAR                        100.5   00.2    092.5   800.0    913.8   1128.8   1382.1   171.7  1369.1   1000.7
7itaL Sgams                                                     999.0   1191.5   161l.0   2012.a  3297.1  2550.9   2905.5   153-.0  .632.0   6A9. 1
rXD ASrs
BIIL O1 S                              125.8    111.1    213.1
m321IST                                 57.2
TEhICAL ASSISfAIC                      120.7    13.0    140.6    151.0       70.b
N.A2LL                                 25.5      13.1      5.D      5.0      5.9       5.9      5s        S.9     5.9      5.9
VIRCLUS                                 8.7      40.8      13.9    100.3     09.0      15.0    I: .0    45.0    05.0    120.0
TOTA.L FD0 ASSIS                                    421.9    29.12   197.8    306.8    106.1       50.9    125.9    50.9    50.9   12!.9
OP W*AlGAL 5x90a2c1   E/
pLSOj  d/                               75.'.    93.0    119.5    136.0    IS.0    305.0   1I05.0   1035.0    105.0   15.0
iED1*inSuAvU  AI.LWdAf   el             11.1     12.3      13.2     10.3       1.0         12.0    .     12.'    12.4       12.4
ornrc  cos    f/                        10.7      12.0     12.0     13.3      10.1    U1.1    1I.1        10.1    14.1      14.1
VEUCIOtE ZP1AOoIR                       30.3 l    4.1 1.I     1     08.11    52.6    12.0       52.0      52.0     52.6     52.0
812tD1C 0am  &                          10.W     15.0      10.7     13.3     13.1      13.1     13.1     13.1      11.1     13.1
RN
FELISTAIEES                              5.        5.0     5.0       1        5 0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0
w      nPR xoi   LW1*SES                 8.0      8.0       8.0      5.0      8.0       8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0
mAxIMa                                  11.D      1;.o    1o.0      11.0      17.0     11.0      11.0    11.0      11.0     17.0
AU    TRIVE           S                   .0       2.        .0      2 .0     2.0        .0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
.;SC1 5AMDS                              5.5       s.s      1.5      1.5       5.5      5.5                5.5 S     .5  S.     5.5
TOTAL 0PCR*flbSL EXW Sf                             186.1    211.s    202.2    201.9    275.1    275.1    175.1   275.1    275.1    275.1
S
DRUGS                                  291.2    416.9    50 05    601.6   762.8    1623.       162.8    102.8   162.8    702.8
NATION AND SALT                          0.1      0.2       0.3      0.0      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5
CATTL
RICE
WITA.L PURCASE                                      291.3    011.1    501.1 s  62.0    763.3    763.1    703.1    163.1    703.3    703.3
Rat'
mnjf                                     0.6       0.2      9.0     12.0      17.0      3 7   1  3.8    03.9       05.8    103.0
TRYAlFCC0D TAX
CATHLE NoRET 752
DS  h/                                  36.0     23.3      10.3     15.9    02.1       02.7     42.7    02.7       02.1     02.7
vACCRboR
TOIAL RoA5                                           21.5     29.6     39.2      *8.5     00.1     05.0      71.5    86.6    108.5   15.J
CAM5T OM 0 PUI            EAR 0W 00 .1    092.5    800.0    911.8   1128.8   1382.1   1113.7  230.1   1000.3   5105.0
105L uCUS O rOlDS                                                9 9.0   1191.5  1601.0   2012.6  2297.1   2!30.9   2905.5  3539.0  0632.8 s         -00  1
a/ Assumes a 402 margin in sales price over cost.
bl Assuses a 152 increase  in   emubecship per year and fee increase at rate of inflation;  302 of membership  fees is subtracted
from those joinlng associations; 1.200 In year 1; 3.600 in year 2; 6.000 in year 3; 8.400 in year 4; and 10.800 in year S.
c/ Operational expenditures included all ANEC project-related  incrementil costs and non-project-related expenses.
t/ All staff.
/ At Government scale.
f/ Project costs plus 82 increase in non-project office costs in PY2 to PY5.
jS  Assues a 102 comission  for agents collecting the dues and 302  for herders associations according to schedule (Annex 3-11);
7.300 members paid their fees in  1985; a 152 increase in membership each year is assu2d.  Membership fee expected to
incraae with the rate of Inflation of 02.
h/ Aasses ea  average of 42 rebate over total sales.
IIAPAD
March 1986



GrMUL AEUCAN 33MLLC
(rCA millions, current prices PYl-PY5, thereafter constant Pns prices)
PY1     P12      PY3      PY4     P1s      PY6      P17      P 6     PY9      Fn1o    P11    P112    PY13    Pn14    PY11    PY16    PY17    Pye    Pyle    M20
Tax"s
Trypanocido Tax (a)                    23       30       50      60       80       85      87       86       93       9A      95       96       97      97       97       96      98       99       99     100
market tax (b)                         17       40       70     100      140      142      165     147      156      157     159      159      161      162     162      163      164     165      165      166
Subtotal tama                            40       70      120      160     220      227      232     235      249      251     254      255      258     259      259      261      262     261      261     265
GovIt bud. contribution
Salary (c) (d)                        550      560      580     556      600      625     625      625      625     625      625      625      625     625      625      625     625      615      625     625
Vacciation fee ()                        22      1i        1        11      15       15       16       16      16       16       16      16       16       17      17       17       17       17      17       17
lIternl contribution (f)               1215    1133    1225    1050        550
Covt contrib. road mintmanc               0       13       53      98      ISO      150      150 15    0      150      150      150     150      150      150     150      150      150     150      150      150
Producer's contribution                   5        6       15      16       14
TOM   LWjlol                              1862    1820    2006    1894    1549    1017    1023    1026    101.0   1042    1045    101.6    1049    1051    1051    1053    1051    1056    1056    1058
Project inetment costs                  998      684     934      871      380
salaries (c) (d)                        550      560      560     566      600      625      625     625      625      625     625      625      el5     625      625      625      625     625      625      625
Severence payets Cg)                     21       57       98
Rod Mainternce                            0       13       53      98      I50SO        ISO 1        lS0 15   150      150     150      150      150      150     150      150      150     150      150      150
Other exanditures                       293      286    3541      359      419      212      248     251      265      267     270      271      274      276     276      278      279     281      261      283
TOTAL WTVky                               1662    1820    2006    1894    151.9    1017    1023    1026    1040    1042    1045    1046    1049    1051    1051    1053    1054    1056    1056    1058
a/ 600 OW1/hahd of cattle sold at markets.
b/ 1,000 CIAI/hsad of cattle sold at mhets. 
c/ Total staff cost provided by Gorimunt civil searvice tn. Includes also salaries for LS other activities and is therefore higher than total Governmnt contribution to project salaries                                N
in Ane  112.                                                                                                                                                                                                        
dl Based on salary saviisi i!YI CVAF 25 million; P12 60 million and P13 CAIA  140 million and salary increase of 86  (inflation rsts) and increse in higher level staff of CIAF 75 million                            '4 '
eully distributed over F13, TA4 end PYs.
0/ Asr md FY1 20k, PY2 15k, and P3 owasrds; 10% cattle would be vaccinated at 50 ClAP per head.
f/ temficiarim contribution in the construction of the dippi.z  tanks.
g/ A    csAs  2 yer  selary for regular staff and 6 naths for laborers who have becom  de facto permanent  sploy"e.
WAPAD
March 1986



Annex 3-18
- 73 -                      Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Animal Health
The animal health package would increase the fertility rate and
decrease mortality. The expected effects per categorv of producers are
given below.
Reduction in      Reduction in        Increase in
Categorv of Producer Calf Mortality Yearli:gs Mortality Fertility Rate
Trained                     50%                 70%                202
In Same Association         40%                 50%                10%
Reached Outside Assoc.      25%                 30%                  5%
Not Reached                  -                   -                   -
These revised fertility and mortality rates have been applied
only to the cattle population that would be reached bv the animal health
package. For the entire Central African livestock population it results in
the following average rates:
PY1(%)             PY5(%)
Calf Mortality
Males                              32                   25
Females                            28                   21
Yearling Mortality
Females                            10                    6
Males                              12                    8
Fertility Rate                       53                   58
Meat
The marketing prospects for increased production are favorable.
With the exception of strong occasional fluctuations in the mid 1970s,
world market beef prices have been relativelv constant in real terms over
the last 20 years and can be expected to remain so over the next decade.
The Western Africa Region as a whole is meat deficient and imported US$200
million in meat and meat products in 1980. Moreover, if the supply and
demand trends over the last two decades were extrapolated to the next
decade, Western and Central Africa would have a deficit of 2 million tons
In the year 2000. Except for 1983, when the Rinderpest outbreak and
currency restrictior in Nigeria caused a sharp drop in cattle prices,
farmgate prices have been rising slightly in real terms over the last
decade; they are again at the 1982 level of CFAF 220/kg liveweight, despite
a doubling of the supply in the CAR over the last 4 years. In the project



Annex 3-18
- 74 -                       Page 2 of 4
financial and economic analyses stable prices are therefore assumed. In
addition, FNEC would contribute to increase market information and would
inform producers and traders of prices and volumes being offered in local
markets.
Milk
Production would on average increase by 6,000 tons/year or
approximatelv 15,000 liters/day by PY5, which would be sold to vrillagers or
consumed by the family, especially in view of the low level of actual
consumption (0.01 liter per day per capita). Furthermore, studies are
being carried out for the establishment of a small (4,000 liters/dav) milk
proces_ing plant in Bangui for the Bossemble/Boda area. The Bank of
Central Africa States ("Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique
Centrale" - BDEAC) has expressed an interest in financing such a plant.
Moreover, the small scale cheese-making equipment envisaged for the
settlement areas would be another marketing outlet. The actual price at
village level of CFAF 80/liter is therefore assumed to continue throughout
project implementation.
Poverty Imract
Through the institution-building of FNEC and the nature of the
technologies to be introduced, the project is expected to have a rositive
impact on the poorer herders strata. The creation of herders associations,
the herders training and the increased integration of these herders
associations in ANEC would lead to greater participation of all herders,
and not only the wealthiest, in the development of this sector. The
introduction of fodder banks would increase milk production, and therefore
benefit the poorer herders, and women who depend on milk for a much larger
part of their income. Similarly, the introduction of animal traction
equipment and sheep and goat health packages would mainlx benefit the same
group, as thev have to rely on cropping or smallstock to supplement their
subsistence. Thus, approximately USS10.5 million or one-third of the total
project costs would directlv benefit the poorer strata.
Environmental Risks of Settlements
All precautions would be taken to minimize environmental risks.
The dip solution would be renewed twice a vear by oualified staff of the
Agropastoral Unit, and later by the District Federation, as is presently
the case. Effluent would not be drained in streams but would be percolated
into the subsoil. The high degree of tick infestation of the grazing lands
and the unavoidable irregularity with which herders would dip their cattle
would require that a control rather than eradication strategy be pursued.
A contiauous low-level c&allenge would cause animals to develop a certain
immunity against the tick-bonie diseases and would make them less
susceptible to heavy tick-loads, should the dipping system break down. The
assumed stocking rate of one head per 5 hectares in the settlement zones
reflects the minimum carrying capacity, thus greatly reducing the danger
of overgrazing. The grazing management scheme to be introduced and the



- 75 -
Annex 3-t8
Page 3 of 4
integration of cropping with fodder banks will enhance the stability of
this ecosvstem.
Economic Rate of Return
Cost/benefit streams for the base case are provided below. They
include all economic costs of the project in the first five years, and
operational and vehicle replacement costs for the remnining 15 years. The
henefit stream is the sum of incremental value of meat and milk and the
value of herd increment that would result from lncreased fertility and
decreased mortality rates.
ECaUIC WU.YSIS
....      ..   .   .   5 . ...  -   ----   I-- --   -- -- -- -- -   ---   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -   __
1         2    3    4    5    6    7    B    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   to  1i           2
II!ttMCAL KEITITS
IrEP nozCiIms         *5'.0 1:8B. 2183.0 3116.0 l5D.0 4912.0 5011.0  .e0 6955.0 7416.0 7763.0 8176.0 85.0 P47.0 9334.0 97." 10107.0 10494.0 118790.0
'LILICT MS
rceJ MOSTS      '659.0 U56P.' .6 940.0 482.0  645.0 3645.0 364.0  34.0 3645.0 345.0 345.D 3645.0 3645.0 3645.0  S.0 3645.0 3145.0 3645.0 364.0
It? RICTUS      '4.59.0 -520?.0 5000.0 -3257.9 lla6.0  305.0 1261.0 2366.0 29431.0 310.0 3771.0 4138.0 4531.0 4930.0  02.0 59.0  6077.0 6462.0 64.0 105145.0
A sensitivitv analvsis has been carried out to compare the imract
of changes in costs and benef4ts on the rate of return and net present
value of the project.    The results are as follows:
EPR                NPV
Z            (USS Million)
1L   Costs Increase:         10%                          13.6               4.0
20%                         12.2                0.5
2.  Benefits flecrease:  10Z                              13.4                3.2
20%                         11.6              -0.9
3.  Cost Increase    :  10,)                              11.9              -0.2
Benefit Decreasp:   10%)
4.  Cost Increase:            202)                          8.7             -7.8
Benefit Decreaee:   20Z)



- 76 -
Annex 3-18
Page 4 of 4
The analysis shows that the project can effectivelv withstand the
impact of a 20% change in costs or benefits and practically also a 10%
change in both cost and benefits. The ERR would remaini above or at the 122
estimate of the opportunity cost of capital in these cases. Costs would
have to increase by 20% or benefits to drop by 20X for the project rate of
return to decline below 122. Eliminating the pilot and research activities
and the infrastructure component from the cost analysis would increase the
rate of return to 20.5% and the NPV of the project to US$15.8 million. In
that case, a cost increase of 10 and 20% would reduce the ERR to 18.6% and
17.0% respectively, a change in the benefit of 10% and 20% to 18.5% and
17.0%. Further information on the basic assumptions underlying the cost
and benefit streams, changes are in Working Files 225.990 (5) and 225.999
(7).
WAPAD
March 1986



9       ~~C H1A D                   5 S 1 D A N         |                               r
0CA     5      0              AFRICAN    REPUBUC                                          .    
CAMEROON   /                 -4sy>6Cuen\Xt                                          -;9
_)-                                  ^  } |   t    j2Bangu-                   v 
\_1r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e /  .      /aAs 
Ij~~~~~ CONGOqml_        .mnO                                        tzns
CAMEROON I                   g/ O  H   OG                                                 '        5Z-1-cST
wan / u7e 



IBRD 19233
.~~~~~~~~~ -I
CENTRAI AFRICAN REPUBLIC
.~ _                             j';,.   -                       \.                                        REPUR! IOUt L ENTRAFRICAINE
.* '9fi!        ob{    SI?/Ao '1                                      NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
-a)-' >,    '    f        -- \.PROJE, NA TIONAL D'ELEVAGE
/1-                   :,  4     A  r ,_  4q                                    AI)vAMINISTRAIIv 1 fTAI tAhI?ANION 0f LIVESTOCK COMMUNITIES:
r        i' L? --,            j                         C,W,OA' ,,,, b , 11O l, .  rLA'Wr DoS COPMUNES D'EIEVAGE'
'-.1...                                                ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~011. ,  ", I   I'S ,,1b. * 'MNll .  . .r
E e               *         '    .                      ,      ~        ~~~~ --  21-OK srcnur u siav
(                   &I~~~~~~~%CTiMt DTaIr"-mG
t              .   -      ,vrsro**J lS II.A M    ,
__~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~             ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ XI Icb    '\>         IN( -Miwl. *1 ^STl110CIL)nE
N liE ' I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t9 &.I 3 VQ 
L   }    |              S      \         q                                 ^    *Ilictt&.2r*~~~~~~e-  I SINA'lCInU  NS MI]?rSOil FIff it[INNIFS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N.~~tFFf o,&Xll ,.:x5..............2..V7 ,     St.R..s;^^0rl",i;^L
Xos~~~~~~~                                                 ~       ~~~~~~~~ *>   t**.                             'Mi IAIISM -   ;,. ;.|..
/   *.   -      -   -     11 l,Sdd.14            , y                            * ^                    *; l   *t *4| ;- |.t -lAll.5E/ 'j "
N!             ' -                               -
T r.4llm  /;  .--s:  I r-                                X-
inin.          -      -                        ''TtKO T                                                                      .- . 
*                            A,<                                    2 .' 7 \_ .  fw eovob A
J     I                              -;   .                                   .   1
o)  W   ;|rsrz~~~~~~ngla                       -
>          - / " ~                                        ''~-  -                 xr:Z-OOO
--      010C                                       -.                                                2'; ;'
/I                                                                a-            ^.,.        
-,              -                                                \.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,i         -iLPrt i^ J
.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{ -         -,  Sl llsp7oeUF P-.%.7R
I"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _MA        -                                         --., 2  
*:10 lE-      -                       'N ;.                                         *,; r- .
A-
F0  ) 5i -.- -----          * b t -r
P*51ill   utjp(          rP 1
Si' A   lP     - II(l,Jf I APtIAIS
-    I  iC n;PRO VINrjiFS PREFECTURES
50   100       '50         2A.        250
KCILOME! EP5....S-
id,
OC;Mi-Hr P 1985






