Dosta.mt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4261-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 10.3 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
March 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit       -   CPA Franc (CFAP)
US$1.00             -   CFAP 385
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 Square Kilometer (km&) -   0.39 Square Mile
1 Hectare                -   2.47 Acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
ANEC      Association Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains
(National Association of Central African Livestock
Producers), now known as FNEC
CAR       Central African Republic
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coop$ration Economique
(French Economic Cooperation Agency)
CBPP      Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
FNEC      Federation Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains
(National Federation of Central African Livestock
Producers)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
LS        Livestock Service
MDR       Ministare du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
PMU       Project Management Unit
WLP       Western Livestock Project (Credit 894-CA)
FISCAL YEAR
Government : January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
a
Borrower:        Central African Republic
Beneficiaries:   The National Federation of Central African Livestock
Producers and the Livestock Service of the Ministry of
Rural Development. The Borrower would make available
US$1.8 million equivalent of the Credit, as a grant, to
the Federation.
Credit Amount:   SDR 10.3 million (US$11.9 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Cofinanciers:    The European Development Fund (EDF) of the European
Economic Community, the French Fund for Aid and
Cooperation (FAC) and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD).
Project
Description:   The project's main objective is to develop a viable
institutional framework for the country's livestock
subsector to ensure the efficient delivery of necessary
inputs and extension to livestock producers, thus reducing
diseases and pasture degradation, increasing livestock
production and exports, and improving the standard of
living of herders. It would (a) strengthen the National
Federation of Central African Livestock Producers (FNEC)
to further develop its input delivery and pastoral
organization and to increase the number of herder
associations; (b) assist the Livestock Service (LS) in its
vaccination campaigns against the main epidemic diseases;
the reorganization and strengthening of its extension,
research and pastoral settlement activities; and the
restructuring of its personnel and financial organization
to sustain these activities on a long-term basis; (c)
rehabilitate feeder roads in the Livestock Communities to
improve the herders' access to markets; and (d) reinforce
management capabilities during project implementation.
This document has a rstrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li 
Estimated Costs (US$ million)
FNEC                           Local       Foreign     Total
Admin. and Finance           0.5         0.7         1.2
Input Distribution           1.5         4.7         6.2
Pastoral Organization
and Training               0.8         0.8         1.6
LS
Extension and Vaccination    5.7         2.8         8.5
Research                     1.2         1.0         2.2
Pastoral Settlement           1.3        1.2         2.5
Livestock Dev. Fund          0.3         0.9         1.2
Infrastructure
Feeder Road Rehabilitation   1.4         1.3         2.7
Project Management
Directorate                  0.7         1.0         1.7
Monitoring and Evaluation    0.2         0.2         0.4
Workshop                     0.3         0.4         0.7
Preparation Follow-up
Project                    0.2         0.3         0.5
Total Baseline Costs        14.1        15.3        29.4
Price Contingencies        0.6         1.3         1.9
Physical Contingencies     3.0         3.0         6.0
Total Project Cost           17.7       19.6        37.3
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Local     Foreign       Total
IDA                            5.0         6.9         11.9
IFAD                            1.6        2.2          3.8
EDF                            2.8         2.6          5.4
FAC                            0.3         0.8          1.1
FNEC and herders                1.4        5.7          7.1
Government                      6.6        1.4          8.0
Total                       17.7       19.6         37.3



- iii-
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FY                1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  1993
Annual                1.1      1.8    2.3    2.5    2.0    1.5   0.7
Cumulative            1.1     2.9    5.2    7.7    9.7   11.2  11.9
Benefits
and Risks:   The project would promote a viable and sustainable
institutional framework to better serve the livestock
subsector; improve knowledge and use of veterinary inputs by
herders; increase annual meat production by 2,600 tons in
PY5 and 15,000 tons in PY20, and the income of about 10,800
families (45 percent of the cattle-raising population); and
increase milk production by 6,000 tons in PY5 and 25,000
tons in PY20, thus raising local consumption and improving
nutrition. Risks concern the efficiency of the Livestock
Service, the stability and competence of FNEC's leadership,
the feasiblity of organizing pastoral associations, and the
use of veterinary drugs by herders. The technical
assistance component, the proposed institutional reforms,
and the project's approach to work within existing
government and traditional structures are expected to ensure
orderly project implementation.
Economic Rate
of Return:   15 percent if all project costs are included; 20 percent if
the research and pilot operations and infrastructural
component are excluded from the analysis.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5909-CA of March 20, 1986
Map: IBRD 19233.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Central African Republic for the equivalent of
US$11.9 million to help finance a National Livestock Project. The Credit
would be made to the Government on standard IDA terms and US$1.8 million
equivalent would be passed on to the Federation Nationale des Eleveurs
Centrafricains (FNEC) as a grant. The proposed project would be cofinanced
by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, the European Development Fund
and the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) (No. 5332-CA), on which the
following paragraphs are largely based, was distributed to the Board in
August 1985. Country data appear in Annex I.
3.        The governments which succeeded the Bokassa regime in late 1979
began to address the CAR's economic difficulties with the assistance of
France, other bilateral donors and international organizations, including
the Bank group and the IMF.  The present Government, headed by President
Kolingba, has made considerable progress towards correcting financial
imbalances and mobilizing the country's economic resources. In 1980, the
Government and the Bank resumed an economic dialogue, the quality of which
has improved steadily over the past five years through policy discussions
in connection with the preparation and implementation of projects in key
sectors and in macroeconomic management, and during the preparation of the
recent CEM. The secondment of a Bank staff member as an economic and
financial advisor to the Government and our involvement in the preparation
of the UNDP sponsored donors' conference (para. 14), have also contributed
to the Government's increased receptivity to Bank advice.
Economic Potential and Constraints
4.        The CAR, a landlocked country of 623,000 km2 in the heart of
Africa, has a population of 2.6 million (of which 70 percent rural) growing
at an annual rate of 2.5 percent and a low population density of 4
inhabitants per square kilometer. With a per capita income of US$270 in
1984, the CAR belongs to the group of least-developed countries.
Agriculture, including forestry, is the mainstay of the economy and
accounts for about 42 percent of GDP (1984). Mining and manufacturing
account for about 9 percent of GDP, utilities and construction for 4
percent, and services for 45 percent. High transportation costs in
domestic and international trade and an oversized civil service explain the
large share of services in GDP.



-2-
5.        The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transportation con-
ditions, sparsely populated area, limited domestic market, and weak human
resource base are the principal constraints to the development of its
economy. Bottlenecks in the routes to the Atlantic Ocean through the Congo
(river/rail) and through Cameroon (road/rail) substantially raise
production and inventory costs. Production costs and sales prices are also
high due to a generally low utilization of capacity and a lack of
-competition which favors monopolistic pricing policies. Import
substitution, which should have benefited from the landlocked situation of
the country, has been hampered by a lack of skilled personnel, and has been
only moderately successful. Political instability and financial
difficulties in the late 1970s and early 1980s caused a stagnation in
private and public investments and a decline in agricultural production.
Years of rapidly growing employment in the civil service (accounting for
about 50 percent of total salaried employees) and in public enterprises
have resulted, however, in incomes that have enabled the urban population
to afford high-priced imported goods. Import tariffs, which constitute the
most important source of budgetary resources, have been ineffective in
protecting domestic industries because CAR's borders are difficult to
control.
Recent Developments
6.        Serious mismanagement of the economy in the 1970s resulted in a
decline of output and per capita incomes between 1978 and 1982. Falling
real producer prices for cash crops, excessive state intervention in
virtually all economic activities including the food crop sector, an
inefficient rural development agency, rapidly deteriorating extension
services and road maintenance led to a reduction of agricultural production
to mere subsistence levels. Internal mismanagement was aggravated by
external factors. World prices for cotton had dropped at an average annual
rate of almost 12 percent in real terms between 1976 and 1979, and in 1979
world coffee prices in real terms had fallen to two thirds of their high
levels in 1976/77. Unsound public investments, creation of public
enterprises and expensive borrowing led to rapidly increasing budgetary
deficits which, together with the accumulation of arrears in public debt
service, provoked substantial declines of both official aid and private
foreign investment. During 1976-79, public investments averaged only some
7 percent of GDP, which declined at an annual average rate of 2 percent
between 1978 and 1982. An almost complete dilapidation of the country's
infrastructure and disintegration of the public administration accompanied
this decline.
7.        The post-Bokassa governments introduced policy changes
emphasizing appropriate producer incentives, stabilization of public
finances, stepwise reduction of state intervention in economic activities
and encouragement of the private sector. Between 1980 and 1985, cotton
producer prices were doubled in nominal terms, fertilizer subsidies
reduced, and performance of the main rural development agency (SOCADA) has
been significantly improved by reducing its overhead costs through
suspension of uneconomic activities, reduction of the labor force,



3
sub-contracting cotton transport to the private sector, and a reduction in
the number of ginneries. Consequently, cotton production and yields more
than doubled from 22,600 tons in 1981 to 46,300 tons In 1985, and from 176
kg/ha to 572 kg/ha, respectively. Food crop production has also risen in
line with cotton production, and in response to the Government's decision
to stop intervening in food crop marketing and to the reappearance of
consumer goods in rural areas.  Official diamond production and exports
increased by some 50 percent between 1983 and 1985 following a significant
reduction in the diamond export tax, and since 1982, exports of cotton,
coffee and diamonds have risen significantly. Imports increased by only
some 10 percent a year in nominal terms during 1980-85 due mainly to low
investment levels, and the current account deficit has remained at a
manageable level of 17 percent of GDP during 1980-84. Between 1982 and
1985, gross domestic output and agricultural production have risen,
interrupted by the drought in 1983. at an average annual rate of 1.2
percent and 2.6 percent, respectively.
8.        Impressive progress has also been achieved in the area of public
finance. Over the past two years, budgetary deficits have been drastically
reduced, and the 1984 and 1985 budgets were virtually balanced (before
amortization of public debt) due both to increased revenues and improved
expenditure control. Between 1981 and 1984, budgetary revenues have risen
by 59 percent, or from 13 percent to 15 percent of GDP, due to several tax
increases, reductions in customs duty exemptions and strengthened tax
collection. On the expenditure side, the Government's stabilization
efforts have been even more successful. Since 1982, the number of civil
servants in public administration has been slightly reduced and wage and
salary payments have declined from 87 percent of budgetary revenue in 1981
to 58 percent in 1985; budgetary deficits have declined from 5 percent of
GDP a year during 1976-81 to less than 0.5 percent in 1984 and 1985. In
spite of the successful financial stabilization, the public sector
continues to be burdened with excessively high personnel costs thus
severely limiting government revenues available for operational or
developmental purposes. The Government is addressing this problem in the
context both of individual projects, such as the proposed Livestock
project, and the ongoing reform of the public administration.
9.        The Government has also begun to privatize several public
enterprises, transform public into mixed enterprises, and closed several
inefficient enterprises. In 1983, six public enterprises were liquidated,
and in 1984 three state enterprises were transformed into mixed ventures.
The financial situation of other enterprises such as the rural development
company, the petroleum distribution company, the post office, the
telecommunications agency, and the electricity company has been improved by
raising tariffs, reducing the number of employees, and introducing orderly
bookkeeping and management procedures. Further privatizations or closures
of public enterprises are foreseen but payment arrears in the parapublic
sector and lack of employment opportunities in the private sector have
slowed down progress towards this objective.



-4-
10.       The Government's financial stabilization efforts have also
succeeded in alleviating the inherited public debt burden. At the end of
1985, the CAR's external debt amounted to US$256 million, or about 36
percent of estimated GDP. Following a debt rescheduling at a Paris Club
meeting in November 1985, at which the CAR received debt relief of US$14
million for payments due between July 1985 and December 1986, the external
debt service obligations fell to US$29.4 million a year during 1985 and
1986 from US$42.2 before debt rescheduling (excluding INF repurchases and
taking Into account interest payments of US$1.2 million during 1985 and
1986 on rescheduled debt). Between 1986 and 1990, projected average annual
debt service Payments amount to US$24 million a year, or about 11 percent
of exports of goods and NFS and some 2n percent of projected budgetary
revenues (excluding DMO charges), and 14 percent and 23 percent
respectively if service payments due to the IMF are included.
11.       The CAR's recent growth is encouraging, and the trend of
declining GDP appears to have been reversed. Over the past decade, the
economy has, however, performed below its potential as reflected in the
following key indicators: (a) between 1976 and 1984, GDP stagnated in real
terms while the population grew by 21 percent; (b) exports stagnated in
real terms between 1980 and 1984; (c) domestic savings have been negative
since 1978; and (d) investments dropped from an already low average annual
level of 11 percent of GDP during 1975-79 to less than 10 percent during
1980-84. In spite of significant progress towards stabilizing public
finances, the CAR still does not, after public debt service, contribute to
financing its development expenditures which are fully financed by external
resources.
Government's Reform Program
12.       The Government has recognized the need to improve economic
performance, in the agricultural sector in particular, if per capita
incomes are to grow on a sustainable basis. In 1985, it has therefore
initiated a reform program which aims at removing further key constraints
in agriculture and improving resource allocation while continuing with
financial stabilization. In June 1985, the Government agreed with the IMF
on an 18 month stand-by arrangement which supports the Government's efforts
to stabilize public finances through a general freeze on wages and salaries
and continuation of the reorganization of the civil service, reduction of
outlays on goods and services, monthly ceilings for travel outlays, overall
ceilings for expenditures on scholarships and a rescheduling of the CAR's
external debt. In order to further reduce government subsidies to the
parapublic sector, the Government in 1985 has also taken steps to privatize
five enterprises: the insurance company, the state pharmacy, the
transportation company, an agro-industrial enterprise (SICPAD) and the
printing office.
13.       In 1985, the Government began to address the country's
medium-term development constraints through a more integrated and
comprehensive approach. With the preparation and implementation of the



-5-
IDA-financed second Technical Assistance Project (effective since
mid-1985), the Government emphasized strengthening the CAR's administrative
procedures and capacity for elaborating appropriate sector strategies and
translating them into a sound public investment program, designing reform
policies needed to improve economic and fiscal performance, training
Central Africans and improving aid coordination.  The Government has
prepared sector strategies and a draft public investment program 1986-90
which are currently being reviewed by IDA.
14.       In order to better coordinate donors' assistance efforts to the
CAR, the Government held a preview meeting on March 11 and 12, 1986, with
its main donors, including IDA, in preparation of the UNDP sponsored Round
Table scheduled for November 1986. At the meeting, the Government
discussed its macroeconomic and sector strategies, as well as the major
policy measures of its medium-term reform program with the donors. The
outcome of these discussions will be reflected in the CAR's 1986-90
Development Plan and the final documents for the Round Table. President
Kolingba's speech in October 1985, which addressed the issues of
unemployment, inefficient educational system, state price controls,
unproductive investments, lack of private initiative and wasteful public
enterprises, serves as the bisic inspiration for the Government's reform
program.
15.       This reform program focuses on:  (1) elaboration of consistent
macroeconomic and sectoral development strategies; (2) sound public
investment program reflecting the sector strategies and public debt
constraints; (3) increased domestic resource mobilization through continued
stabilization of current expenditures; (4) reform of key public
enterprises; and (5) improved performance of agriculture. In agriculture,
the program includes: appropriate producer incentives for the CAR's export
commodities, complete liberalization of food crop marketing, economic
pricing of agricultural inputs, redefinition of the agricultural price
stabilization fund (CAISTAB) and strengthening of the Ministry's capacity
to plan and coordinate the rural development policy. In connection with
the recent crisis in the cotton subsector the Government has realized that
a particular effort will be needed to make better use of the revenues
generated in agriculture. It has, therefore, decided to take steps that
would ensure that the Stabilization Fund (CAISTAB) can properly function as
a stabilization fund.
Development Prospects
16.       The CAR has a good and reasonably well diversified resource base
which should allow the economy to grow at an average annual rate of about 4
percent once agricultural output, productivity and incomes have risen to
levels at which the sector can become the engine for economic growth. The
continuation of the Government's incentive policy in agriculture, and the
introduction of additional policy measures to raise agricultural
productivity and improve the terms of trade for farmers should lead to
substantial production increases of coffee and timber. They would,
together with a favorable outlook for coffee and timber world prices,



-6-
translate into projected annual export growth rates of some 5 percent
betveen 1986 and 1990, compared to less than half a percent during 1980-84,
or somewhat more than 4 percent duriug the 1970s. Cotton world prices have
recently sharply declined and are expected to remain low over the next few
years. This is expected to prevent a faster growth of agricultural exports
since projected production increases and production cost reductions in the
cotton subsector will only partly offset for the price fall. Real imports
have been projected to increase at average annual rates of about 3.5
percent during 1986-90, compared with less than one percent during the
1970s, and the current account deficit has been projected to remain at
around 15 percent of GDP until 1990.
17.       The projected output growth is also expected to result from
significant improvements in programming and implementation of public
investments. Public investments have been projected to double from an
average 8 percent of GDP in the early 1980s to almost 16 percent in 1990.
and the capital/output ratio is expected to improve due to better project
preparation and implementation as well as a shift in the composition of the
public investment program towards directly productive activities.
18.       Foreign official and private investment financing has been
projected to increase by approximately 60 percent in nominal terms between
1985 and 1990. Since public savings after debt service are expected to
increase only slowly, foreign donors should be prepared to support the
Government's rehabilitation and reform efforts by extending their
assistance on highly concessional terms, and financing a high proportion of
local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CAR
19.       Bank Group commitments in the CAR amount to US$87.2 million and
cover four projects in the transportation sector, two in the education
sector, two in technical assistance, and one each in livestock and rural
development. Six projects have been executed, and two, the Western
Livestock Project (Credit 894-CA of 1979) and the First Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1150-CA of 1981) are about to be completed. The
performance of these projects has been fair, lack of qualified national
staff, and of adequate local funding, being the main implementation
constraints. The results of the Western Livestock Project are discussed in
paras. 33 to 37. All five ongoing projects contain modest policy
components and, in general, their implementation is proceeding without
major difficulties. The CAR's disbursement rate compares favorably with
those of other countries. The Status of Bank Group Operations is given in
Annex II.
20.       The main elements of the Bank Group's strategy for helping the
CAR's development efforts are to (a) support the rehabilitation of the
agriculture sector (including its institutions); (b) support the



-7-
rehabilitation of the existing transportation infrastructure and continue
to develop the country's road maintenance capacity; (c) encourage other
exports, notably diamonds and timber; (d) support Government's effort to
return to financial discipline in public adminictration, and to improve the
efficiency of parapublA.c enterprises; (e) mobilize other donors to partici-
pate in the financing of high-priority rehabilitation programs; and (f)
assist in rehabilitating the education system.
21.       The Government welcomes the Bank's move towards a more policy
oriented assistance approach and has asked the Bank to support its
development and adjustment efforts. In particular, we propose to support
the Government's policy measures aimed at raising agricultural output and
productivity, particularly in the agricultural sector, at improving public
investment programming, domestic resource mobilization, and at reforming
publie administration and the civil service and rehabilitating key selected
public enterprises.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
22.       Agriculture accounts for 42 percent of the CAR's GDP, 80 percent
of export earnings and 80 percent of employment. Foodcrop and livestock
production each contribute more than one-third to the agricultural GDP,
export crops and forestry make up the remainder. About 350,000 families
grow foodcrops--mostly cassava-on approximately 520,000 ha, or about 80
percent of the total cropped area. The country is virtually
self-sufficient in the main food staples. Coffee and cotton are the main
export crops. Coffee, mostly grown in the southwest, provides 16 percent
of CAR's foreign exchange earnings, second only to diamonds. Cotton, grown
mainly in the northwestern and central provinces, accounts for 14 percent
of foreign exchange earnings. It is the most widely grown rural cash crop
and is a key catalyst in rural development. However, the recent fall of
cotton prices in the world market endangers the viability of this crop.
Agricultural Strategy and Main Institutions in the Sector
23.       After the sharp decline of the sector in the 1970s, the current
Government established the following priorities for its agricultural
strategy: (i) development of the smallholder sector; (ii) rehabilitation of
the regional-based rural development institutions; and (iii) rehabilitation
of export and foodcrop production and rural infrastructure in an integrated
rural development approach. It has since made considerable progress in
liberalizing prices and markets of foodcrops; revitalizing cotton and its
rural development agency. SOCADA; and protecting its cattle. The rural
development strategy for the new five-year plan (1986-1990) continues to be
based on these principles, with heavy emphasis on the reform of Government
institutions to improve their relationship with the producers. The current
dialogue with the Bank focusses on this institutional reform issue and on



-8-
pricing and marketing issues in coffee and cotton. The Ministry of Rural
Development ("Ministare du Diveloppement Rural" - MDR), through its three
Directorates General (Agriculture, Rural Works and Livestock) is
responsible for implementing this strategy.
Livestock in the Economy
24.       Livestock production has recently become a major activity in the
CAR. This has been due to a dramatic increase in cattle migration from
Cameroon, Nigeria and Chad over the last two decades, but particularly in
the early 1980s, when drought and civil unrest in Chad and the efficient
vaccination campaign against Rinderpest in the CAR (para 36) brought in
several thousands of herders from neighboring countries. As a result,
CAR's cattle herd doubled from 1.1 million head in 1980 to 2.2 million in
1984. Smallstock flocks (900,000 goats, 100,000 sheep, 300,000 pigs and 2
million poultry) have been growing more slowly.
25.       Livestock is one of the the agricultural subsectors with the
greatest growth potential in the CAR. The country is self-sufficient in
meat, but there are export opportunities within the region (to Nigeria,
Gabon, Congo). Besides making an important contribution to increased
exports, livestock could contribute substantially to increasing the overall
efficiency of crop production: there is still considerable scope for
expanding the use of animal traction and other forms of integrating crops
and livestock. The project would encourage this integration. Moreover,
especially in remote areas, herders are almost the only outlet for
foodcrops produced by peasant farmers. Government is aware of livestock's
potential and gives its realization a high priority. Over the last few
years, 14 percent of the rural development investment budget and 30 percent
of its operational budget have been allocated to livestock, and Government
intends to maintain this level.
Physical and Social Environment
26.       Almost all cattle in the CAR are kept by the nomadic M'bororo
(20,000 families) and the settled Foulbe (2,000 families), who together
make up the Fulani ethnic group. The Fulanis form a highly structured
society, clearly distinct from the rest of the population by their pastoral
vocation, migratory life-style, language and religion. Most cattle
production is nomadic or semi-nomadic grazing on the common rangelands.
However, settlement, combining herding with cropping, is becoming
increasingly common especially in the so-called Livestock Communities.
These are special areas demarcated by Government exclusively for grazing:
and contain 30 percent of the national cattle herd. The small herd (7,500
head) of trypanotolerant cattle introduced in CAR from Guinea in the 1950s
is mainly kept by crop growers. Legislation restricting the sale and
slaughter of these cattle was intended to accelerate the multiplication of
this valuable breed, but has had, in fact, the opposite effect of severely
constraining its expansion. This legislation would be rescinded as a
condition of Credit effectiveness. Smallstock are also kept by crop
farmers and ownership of small ruminants is widespread.



-9-
27.       A detailed socio-anthropological study of the Fulanis and a
survey of their household budgets were carried out as part of project
preparation. They showed that cattle wealth is not evenly distributed
among the Fulanis. Herd ownership ranges from 40 to 1,000 head per family
(average nine persons). The average annual per capita income of these
pastoralist. is about US$330 equivalent (national average: US$270); but,
this figure is somewhat misleading aS about 55 percent of them own fewer
than 100 head and their average income is less than US$170 equivalent.
Differences in wealth clearly affect individual herd management strategy;
poorer herders care more for their animals, as shown by their higher
expenditures per animal on veterinary drugs. Furthermore, poorer herders
are forced to sell a higher percentage of their animals to meet subsistence
needs, sometimes jeopardizing the sustainability of their herds. It can be
expected, therefore, that poorer herders will benefit at least equally from
improvements in the animal health delivery systems.
Technical Constraints and Offtake
28.       Herd disease and poor nutrition are the main technical
constraints producers face.  The main diseases are Trypanosomiasis,
Brucellosis, internal parasites, and ticks and tick-borne diseases. Cattle
fertility is low because of Trypanosomiasis and a high incidence of
Brucellosis. The poor quality of rangelands in the dry season aggravates
the effects of these diseases. Veterinary drugs to control them have only
recently become available, but their distribution and use is still
deficient. As a result, average mortality of all age groups over the last
few years is 10 percent (30 percent of calves) compared with 8 percent
(20-30 percent of calves) for Sub-Saharan Africa. The estimated calving
rate is 53 percent against a feasible 65 percent. Cattle herders know that
diseases are their major constraint and respond eagerly to opportunities of
procuring animal health inputs, as demonstrated by the spectacular sales
growth under the Western Livestock Project (WLP) and the success of the
Rinderpest campaign.
29.       With an increasingly successful control of animal diseases, the
second generation problems of preventing rangeland degradation become more
important. Although the CAR's potential carrying capacity is about double
the present livestock population, the subhumid savannah vegetation is
*         extremely fragile and localized range degradation is apparent.
Socio-economically feasible control methods would include the introduction
of better grazing management and adjudication of exclusive grazing rights
to settled herders associations, to be tested under the project.
30.       Cattle marketing is mostly handled by traders from Cameroon and
Chad, who buy directly from herders or at cattle markets. Although several
middlemen are normally involved until cattle reach the consumer markets of
Bangui, or of Cameroon and Nigeria, markups are reasonable and the system
is efficient. Offtake is affected by the shortage of consumer goods in
production areas due to poor access to secondary roads, which reduces the
incentive to sell cattle. There are no sociological constraints to
increasing offtake, and contrary to widespread opinion, cattle are sold



- :io -
when they have reached their maximum weight and are not kept beyond that
stage for prestige reasons. In the cropping area, milk is often sold by
women to crop farmers; no markets for milk exist in the low density
population areas.
Livestock Institutions
31.       ANEC/FNEC.  In 1973, faced with an almost complete collapse of
the Government Livestock Service, the producers formed a private and
autonomous National Association of Central African Livestock Producers
(ANEC) to facilitate drug distribution. However, poor leadership in the
late 1970s severely affected its operations. In 1981, the newly appointed
Secretary General rehabilitated ANEC with the help of technical assistance
under WLP. This institution--unique in West Africa--represents the herders
at the national level and distributes the necessary inputs, mainly
veterinary drugs. Its image at the field level has improved over the last
few years; 60 percent of all herders are now fee-paying members. It is
governed by a General Assembly and a Board of Directors, chaired by an
elected President, and has a Secretary General as its chief executive. A
Coordination Committee, comprising the President and Secretary General of
ANEC and the Director General of the Livestock Service, plans and
supervises its day-to-day operations and coordinates them with the
Livestock Service.
32.       The main problems of ANEC are: (a) lack of adequate organization
at field level, although a start has been made in developing local herder
associations; (b) strong Government pressures to finance other activities,
thus threatening ANEC's financial viab-Ility; and (c) lack of herders with
educational levels allowing effective participation in management. To
address these issues. amended statutes were adopted during project
preparation, under which the representation of herder associations in the
General Assembly is greatly increased thus broadening grassroot
participation in management (para. 48). The amended statutes further
strengthen the role of the Board of Directors and of the Coordination
Committee to enhance its Independence from Govarnment. These actions are
reflected in the recent change of name of the National Association (ANEC)
into the National Federation (FNEC). Under the project, training
opportunities would be created to expand the basis from which FNEC could
select future leaders.
33.       FNEC derives its income mainly from membership fees and profits
on drug sales (US$329,000 in 1984). Under its amended statutes, 30 percent
of the membership fees will remain in the local herders associations to
strengthen their activities. FNEC also receives Market and Trypanocide
fees (locally known as "taxes") (US$59,000 in 1984). These taxes were
instituted in the Seventies and levied respectively by the PNEC
representatives and Livestock Service staff on traders at cattle markets to
maintain market facilities and provide trade cattle enroute to Bangui with
protection against Trypanosomiasis. However, they are no longer associated
with their original purpose, as changing circumstances (more export to
Trypanosomiasis-free areas and improved drug availability) have obviated



- 11 -
the use of this prophylaxis or FNEC's involvement in its administration.
The recovery rate has plummeted to 10-20 percent. Under the proposed
project, this system would be rehabilitated and the revenues used as the
beneficiaries' contribution to the Livestock Development Fund to finance
the reorganization of the Livestock Service and to recover a portion of the
costs of rangeland and animal production extension.
The Livestock Service
34.       The Directorate General of Livestock and Animal Industries in MDR
is responsible for the overall development of the livestock subsector. It
is represented in all the districts to provide producers with animal health
and production advice and services; it operates a training college for
field staff at Bouar and a clinic in Bangui, and is responsible for
sanitary control at the borders, markets and slaughter places. The present
payroll shows a total of 752 staff. The total number of staff is high in
relation to the number of cattle and to what the country can afford, even
though it compares favorably with levels in many other countries in the
Region; however, the proportion of lower level support staff is
comparatively high. The main problem is that virtually all (99.5 percent)
of the US$1.4 million equivalent Government budget for the Livestock
Service (LS) is spent on salaries. This makes LS totally dependent on
external financing for operational expenditures. Furthermore, the
structure of the Service is complex, with six levels from the Directorate
General to the Livestock Post. Because of the high proportion of junior
staff, many field level supervisors are quite inexperienced, making
effective information transfer from management to the grassroot level very
difficult.
Livestock Development Projects
35.       The two Livestock Development Projects-the Western Livestock
Project (WLP) financed by IDA/IFAD/ADF, and the Central Livestock Project
(CLP) under EDF financing--provided the main impetus to livestock
development in the CAR. They have similar objectives, i.e., to increase
livestock production and the standard of living of the herders through
improved animal health services and production extension. Additionally,
CLP supports the development of a livestock multiplication center for
trypanotolerant cattle and has constructed some markets, and WLP supports
the Livestock Training College at Bouar. Together they finance virtually
all operating costs of the LS. Geographically, CLP focuses on the central
part of the country with 25 percent of the cattle population and WLP on the
western part, which contains the remaining 75 percent. Government has
decided to merge all future external funding into the proposed National
Livestock Project.
36.       Initially both projects worked exclusively with the LS, but while
positive results were obtained with this approach in some areas,
performance in others was poor. With heavy assistance from the two
projects, LS responded efficiently to the region-wide Rinderpest outbreak
in 1983, containing mortality to less than 1 percent in the CAR against



- 12 -
5-15 percent in neighboring countries. Three successful follow-up
campaigns were organized. Each project supports a provincial field
diagnostic laboratory; although these laboratories are severely hampered by
unreliable utilities, they perform simple diagnostic work well. Some
progress has also been made in grazing management. Simple grazing schemes
that halt pasture degradation have been identified and are being introduced
on a pilot scale. Furthermore, capable Central African nationals have been
appointed to the positions of Director General and Regional Inspector.
Government payment of LS salaries has been generally on time and
disbursement under WLP is only one year behind schedule. The initial
weaknesses of the WLP technical assistance have been overcome and the
present team is well integrated into the overall government structure.
37.       Initial project performance in curative animal health and animal
production extension had been poor because of weaknesses in the project
design and in the structure of LS. The WLP revolving fund for the sale of
drugs was mismanaged, and contacts between LS and producers beyond
vaccination campaigns had been minimal. The Technical College at Bouar
produced graduates who were automatically recruited for an already
overstaffed Civil Service, while the technical quality of existing staff
was extremely poor.
38.       The animal health and training components of WLP were therefore
redesigned in October 1982 and ANEC was given responsibility for the
distribution of veterinary drugs. Training was reoriented toward herders
to teach them the proper use of these drugs. CLP adopted the same approach
in 1984. The automatic recruitment of graduates of the Bouar College for
Civ±l Service was discontinued and training was shortened from four to
three years. Under the proposed project, training would focus exclusively
on refresher courses for existing staff, and admission of new students
would be suspended for five years. As a result of the new project design,
drug sales have jumped thirty-fold, about 1,000 herders have been trained
and 20 herder associations have been formed and function well. The
distribution system now reaches most producers, including the poorer
strata.
39.       The two projects did not address the structural weaknesses of the
LS, which is still hampered by inadequate training and communication
difficulties of the field staff, due to different ethnic and language
backgrounds, and by the absence of an adequate extension methodology.
Furthermore, the lack of resources and inadequate personnel policies do not
provide adequate incentives for the agent to go to the field. Extension in
grazing management, animal production, the integration of livestock into
crop production and overall sanitary protection, essential for a
well-balanced development of the subsector, is therefore neglected.
Furthermore, the structural dependence of LS on external funding for its
operation has not been corrected. A more comprehensive approach, combining
management reforms with retraining, introduction of well defined extension
packages and methods, and a mechanism to redress the present imbalance
between salary and non-salary expenditures is therefore necessary and is an
integral part of the proposed National Livestock Project.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
40.       The proposed project was identified by Government and Bank staff
in May 1984. It was prepared by the French Office for the Development of
Agricultural Production (BDPA) consultants under French bilateral financing
and appraised in May/June 1985 with participation of EDF and FAC
representatives. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 4 to 7,
1986. The CAR delegation was headed by Dr. E. Abdoul, Minister of Rural
Development and included a representative of FNEC. IFAD representatives
participated in the negotiations.
41.       The project's main objective would be to develop a viable and
sustainable institutional framework for the livestock subsector that could
effectively deliver animal health and production inputs and technical
advice to all livestock producers with a view to increasing their
production and improving their standard of living. To achieve this
objective, the project would strengthen FNEC and LS in those areas where
they have comparative advantages and institute reforms to ensure the
sustainability of the investments. The project would support the
Government's objectives to increase food production, expand exports,
strengthen and revitalize goverment and private institutions in the
subsector, and minimize the recurrent charges to be borne by Government
after project completion.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.
42.       The Project would support one of the CAR's agricultural
subsectors with best growth potential. Further external support is
essential to consolidate the initial gains made in animal health under WLP,
to broaden these gains with key actions in rangeland use and animal
production so as to arrive at sustainable land use systems and prevent
ecological degradation. Further external support is also essential to
introduce the institutional reform actions required to ensure a long term
sustainability of past investments and of any future investments in the
livestock subsector. The project's objectives, combining institutional
reforms and expanding the role for the private sector, are in line with the
institutional reform effort generally being supported by IDA. Furthermore,
the Government wishes IDA to continue to play a lead role in developing the
sector, particularly in light of experience gained under the WLP and the
need to monitor progress under the proposed project. Finally, external
financing requirements of the project exceed the amounts available from
other concessional sources.



- 14 -
Summary Description.
43,       The project would support the following actions:
(a) In FNEC the project would (i) strengthen its financial and
administrative management; (ii) expand its input distribution
system; (iii) staff and equip a pastoral organization and
training department to form about 200 herders' associations and
train their present and future leaders, auxiliaries and herders
in general.
(b) In LS the project would (i) restructure the personnel and
financial organization, so that LS can sustain its activities on
a long term basis; (ii) strengthen the Livestock Service's
vaccination and extension capability; (iii) establish a central
veterinary diagnostic and livestock research laboratory; (iv)
strengthen the department for pastoral settlement and further
develop the pilot settlement areas; (v) establish a Livestock
Development Fund;
(c) Under the infrastructure component, the project would
rehabilitate 600 km of feeder roads in areas of high livestock
density; and
(d) To reinforce management capabilities, the project would continue
to staff and equip a small project management unit and a
monitoring unit, and establish a vehicle and equipment
maintenance unit.
44.       The project would cover almost the entire subsector and focus on
improving the health of the national cattle herd. In addition, the project
would start a number of activities with other livestock species and in
rangeland use, animal production and management, producers organization and
institution-building, which would make it a comprehensive livestock
development effort. Geographically, the project would cover the entire
livestock population, combining activities on a national scale (drug
distribution, improved extension advice and vaccination, establishment of
herders associations) with testing of promising technologies on a pilot
scale (tsetse and tick control, dry season supplementation, grazing
management, small ruminant production, animal traction, and milk
processing).
45.       Prospects that the project would achieve its objectives and have
a satisfactory economic Impact are very good. First, the project would
build upon the successful WLP and address a key constraint--i.e. animal
health, on which producers place the highest priority-in a humid
environment and for which appropriate technology exists. Ex-post
evaluations of a limited number of animal health interventions in West
Africa have generally shown a high economic return. Second, the project's
concept and design are significantly different from the majority of African
livestock projects, which, in general, performed poorly as they attempted



- 15 -
to increase animal production and rangeland productivity in low potential
arid environments, for which often no adequate socio-economically
acceptable technology exists. Furthermore, the project would exploit the
comparative advantages of the public and private sectors, and would use
existing government and traditional institutions, without drastic changes,
thereby increasing the prospects of successful implementation.
B. Detailed Features
FNEC
46.       General.  The project would use FNEC's comparative advantage in
commercial activities and its better communication channels with herders to
expand FNEC's livestock input distribution system, and to develop a herder
organization and training capability. This would address the main
technical constraint, poor animal health, on the curative side, and further
strengthen producers organization at the field level. FNEC's financial and
administrative management would also be strengthened with the international
recruitment of a financial controller (five man-years) and computer
equipment to improve FNEC's accounting and stock control system.
47.       Livestock Input Distribution System.  FNEC's present system would
be expanded with one central and 29 regional depots and provided with
equipment and six sales vehicles. All staff and operating expenses would
be financed from the margin on the sale of drugs, except for the head of
the system who would be paid by the project for the first three years and
from the sales margin afterwards.
48.       Herder Organization and Training.  The Project would support the
formation of herders' associations to facilitate the distribution of drugs
and other inputs and training of herders, and to strengthen FNEC's field
level organization to improve its representation at the national level.
Furthermore, the associations would be the essential building block for the
pilot settlement groups (para. 53) through which the introduction of more
rational rangeland use would be tested. The project would therefore
support the establishment at FNEC of a pastoral organization and training
department and would finance a pastoral organization specialist for four
years, and vehicles and operating costs for this department. Field work
would be entrusted to four mobile teams, each headed by an expatriate
volunteer.  A network of about 30 pastoral agents would be gradually built
up to monitor and further guide the new herders associations. Based on
WLP's success in forming such associations, the project would organize half
the pastoral population (about 11,000 herders) into 216 associations; it
would train in each association the leader and two auxilliaries for the
pharmacies and introduce in total about 5,400 herders in the proper use of
drugs. Furthermore the project would provide professional and technical
training for up to ten young herders, so as to expand the basis for
selection of FNEC's future leadership. A joint implementation review would
be carried out in th second half of 1989, when 80 herders associations



- 16 -
would have been established. This review vould assess the achievements of
herder organization and training, and of the pastoral settlement component
(para. 53), and would, if necessary, modify objectives and approaches in
the light of project experience.
Livestock Service
49.       General.  The project would support LS in addressing the
preventive animal health needs and rangeland and animal production
constraints: sanitary protection of the national herd (vaccination and
quarantine measures), extension in rangeland use and animal production
techniques; research; and pilot activities in pastoral settlement. These
tasks have a strong public interest element or an experimental character
which makes LS the more suitable organization to carry them out.
Entrusting such tasks to a private institution such as FNEC would either
produce a conflict of interest (vaccination and quarantine requiring public
enforcement to be successful and settlement activities involving
farmer/livestock land tenure), would involve risks normally entrusted only
to a public institution (research) or would involve long term investments
and a high degree of public interest and be beyond FNEC's present
management capabilities (rangeland use and animal production extension,
which are important aspects of resource conservation). In the long run
(5-10 years), a further transfer of the animal production and management
extension responsibilities to FNEC may be feasible. The remaining LS tasks
in sanitary border control and food inspection remain outside the scope of
this project.
50.       Extension and Vaccination.  To develop appropriate extension
methods and packages for the herders, based on experience acquired under
WLP, the project would finance the services of a livestock extension expert
(three man-years) and associated transport and operational costs. This
expert would be assisted by locally recruited subject-matter specialists in
the preparation of livestock extension packages for crop farmers. The
Bambari livestock multiplication center would be further equipped with a
cattle truck and provided with a revolving fund for the purchase and sale
of trypanotolerant cattle to and from crop/livestock farmers. A diagnostic
survey of smallstock problems would determine the main thrust of an
appropriate extension package. The project would renew equipment for
vaccination against Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine Pleuro Pneumonia (CBPP)
and Brucellosis and would equip the sectors with motorcycles and mopeds.
51.       Staff Retraining.  To improve their communication skills and
technical expertise in preventive animal health, rangeland management, and
animal production techniques, afl LS field staff would attend annual
refresher courses at the Bouar College. An internationally recruited
training expert (three man-years) would be financed to develop and
introduce this program, and funding would be made available for the
logistics of the program and the demonstration farm (to be headed by a
French volunteer). Provision would also be made for about 61 staff-years
of specific training outside the country, mostly to remedy the lack of
higher level technicians.



- 17 -
52.       Research.  An early warning system for the management of FNEC and
LS concerning imminent disease outbreaks and resistance to certain drugs,
is an essential element of the liberalized use of veterinary drugs as
proposed under the project. Furthermore, there is a need to develop a
problem-oriented research capability to test available technology on the
main constraints identified under WLP.  The project would therefore
construct and equip in Bangui, where reliable utilities exist, a central
veterinary diagnostic and livestock research laboratory to work in network
with the existing provincial laboratories in Bambari and Bouar. The project
would also provide transport, operating costs and two staff-years of
technical assistance (TA) plus short-term consultants.
53.       Pastoral Settlement.  The Project would support pilot settlement
activities to introduce a more rational use of rangelands, prevent
degradation and move towards the development of permanent sustainable land
use systems (para 29). Settlement would also foster a better integration
of the herders in the national econoLy. The Project would therefore
strengthen the Settlement Unit established under WLP to further guide and
promote sedentarization in up to 18 pilot "settlement zones". This Unit
would be provided with four man-years of TA, local technical staff,
transportation and operating costs at the national and regional levels. A
typical settlement zone would cover 70,000 ha and the grazing rights would
be exclusively adjudicated to one or more herders associations which would
have demonstrated good social cohesion and sound financial management for
at least two years. Thus, of the projected 216 herders associations to be
formed, 20-30 associations would be involved in this pilot settlement
component. A cattle dip to control ticks would be constructed in each zone
to induce the herders to settle. The herders would contribute 10 percent
to the dip construction costs and pay all costs of operation and
maintenance; the balance of the construction costs would be financed by the
project. This is justifiable given the experimental nature of the
settlement component and the wider social benefits of a rational land use.
Further activities would include a functional literacy program and
demonstrations in forage cultivation for dry season supplementation and the
use of animal traction equipment. The implementation review, which would
be carried out in the second half of PY3 after 6 settlement zones with
their infrastructure had been established, would determine the definite
number of dips to be constructed under the Project.
54.       Livestock Development Fund.  A Fund would be established to
finance, during the project execution period, pilot tests of potentially
valuable technologies and LS staff reduction under the institutional reform
component, and after project completion, the non-salary recurrent costs of
LS. Revenues for this Fund would be US$0.4 million from external
contribution and from US$1.5 million in Market and Trypanocide taxes, over
the five-year project implementation period. An amount of US$1.1 million
from this national contribution would be used to finance pilot technologies
and the remaining US$0.4 million would be allocated to staff redundancy
payments. After project completion, annual revenues of US$0.6 million are
projected.



- 18 -
Infrastructure Development
55.       About 600 km of feeder roads connecting the high-density live-
stock areas and livestock raising communities to regular markets would be
rehabilitated. These roads are essential for the regular supply of food
and consumer goods to traditional producers, to generate the cash they need
for such goods and thus create incentives to sell animals). Assurances
have been obtained that Government would make adequate funding available to
finance the maintenance of these rehabilitated roads.
Project Management and Monitoring
56.       The project management unit (PMU), to be located in FNEC, would
be a very light structure (two professionals) designed to support existing
organizational structures in project implementation, and would be
dismantled at project completion. lt would be headed by an internationally
recruited co-director for four years. It would be provided with transport
and expanded office accommodations, as well as with a small workshop in
Bangui and two mobile repair shops for the maintenance of all vehicles and
equipment in the provinces. This vehicle and equipment unit would be
headed by a French volunteer. The Project Monitoring Unit set up under WLP
would be strengthened through regular consultant visits. The Monitoring
Unit would focus on specific aspects and key areas of implementation
effectiveness without creating a costly comprehensive data collection
system, and would be incorporated into the LS Directorate General at
project completion. Funds would also be provided for project staff to
begin preparation of a follow-up project.
C - Implementation
57.       To undertake key preparatory actions and ensure a smooth and
efficient transition of technical assistance personnel and activities from
the ongoing WLP to the proposed project, IDA has approved a Government
request for US$500,000 funding under the Project Preparation Facility.
These funds are being used to prepare bidding documents for office and
laboratory construction in Bangui, start the training of key Central
African personnel, launch one mobile team for pastoral organization and
training, and ensure continuity of several of the present TA staff into the
proposed National Livestock Project.
Institutional and Other Reforms
58.       An Action Plan adopted during negotiations would be implemented
over a five-year period. LS would (a) correct the present imbalance
between salary and non-salary expenditures; (b) modify the existing bonus
system to better reflect individual performance and increase staff
incentives; and (c) reduce the number of hierarchical steps within its
organization as well as the total number of its staff. Annual targets
regarding the level of tax revenues, staff reductions and the pace of



- 19 -
reorganization, together with the broad parameters of the revised bonus
system, were agreed. In order to monitor progress in achieving the goals
of the Action Plan, disbursements for LS operating costs would be subject
to review when they reach the US$700,000; US$1,400,000 and US$1,800,000
levels. Disbursements for LS operating costs would be resumed only if the
Action Plan targets for the preceding tranche had been met.
59.       Financial Aspects.  The direct revenue system for LS would be
based on the existing system of Market and Trypanocide taxes and
vaccination fees starting at US$0.1 million equivalent in Project Year 1
and reaching an annual level of US$0.6 million equivalent in PY5.
Increased staff resources and better controls would increase the recovery
rate from these taxes from the present level of 15 percent of potential to
50 percent by PY5. These revenues would be deposited in the Livestock
Development Fund and used during project implementation for staff
redundancy payments and testing of new technologies, and after project
completion, for LS non-salary operating costs for public sector tasks. To
avoid creating cashflow problems for FNEC, it was agreed that FNEC would
retain 50 percent of these taxes in PY1 and 30 percent in PY2. Beginning
in PY3, the full transfer of these taxes to LS would support the Livestock
Development Fund without endangering FNEC's viability. It should be noted
that these revenues would be the only direct contribution of the private
sector to the Government, as no customs duties on inputs or export taxes on
cattle are levied. These taxes are, therefore, the most simple and
effective means of recovering part of government expenditures for the
subsector.  A condition of credit effectiveness Is that Government had
taken appropriate action to designate the taxes and vaccination fees as
direct revenue for LS.
60.       Organizational Aspects.  The Action Plan provides for a:  (a)
reduction of 37 percent in the number of LS staff over a three-year period;
(b) reduction of the number of hierarchical levels within LS by elimination
of five provincial inspectorates and 45 subsector posts; and (c)
modification of the present bonus system to reflect actual individual
performance, improve staff supervision and personnel administration and
provide a genuine system of incentives.
61.       Personnel Aspects.  Staff reduction would be achieved through
attrition, transfer to other services, and early retirement with redundancy
payments. Redundancy payments, amounting on average to two years salary
could be combined with loans from the Agricultural Development Bank to
start modern livestock enterprises or private veterinary practices.
Government has agreed to prevent reemployment of staff having benefitted
from redundancy payments. The Staff Reduction Plan has been developed in
close collaboration with the Government's Civil Service Reform Team, and
would be integrated into an overall staff reorganization of MDR. To
strengthen LS personnel management and control, all personnel
administration activities, including payroll, would be transferred from the
Treasury to the LS Directorate General. From June 1987 onwards, Government
would deposit all salaries into the LS account five days after the end of
each month. LS administration would then be adequately strengthened to



- 20 -
handle the increased administrative load. The customary bonus system for
local staff involved in major projects--which now benefits all higher-level
staff--would be modified to benefit only those staff who performed well as
determined by an annual evaluation. Important criteria in this evaluation
would be perfomance in the staff retraining (para 51) and FNEC's local
representatives assessment. Furthermore, eligibility criteria and levels
would be unified for all externally funded projects under MDR supervision.
Tentative levels were discussed during negotiations, and final submission
of a uniform bonus system satisfactory to IDA, and its promulgation by
Government would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Organization and Management
62.       FNEC/LS Linkages.  The project would be carried out under MDR
supervision by the LS Directorate General and by FNEC, with support from
the PMU (para 56). As under WLP, the project would be managed by FNEC's
Secretary General and the LS Director General, who would share
responsibility for the execution of their respective work programs and
budgets with the internationally recruited co-director. Further assistance
would be provided by the internationally recruited financial controller,
who would administer the finances of both FNEC and LS. The existing
Coordination Committee (para. 31) would continue to supervise FNEC's activ-
ities and coordinate FNEC and LS project activities.
63.       Within the restructured LS, the Director General would be solely
responsible for the overall planning of the subsector and for all control
functions outside the project, but would have joint responsibility with the
project co-director for all project activities. These arrangements, which
enable the Director General to share difficult management decisions with
the co-director, have worked well during the last two years of WLP
execution and should be maintained during the crucial period of LS
reorganization. The shared responsibility would involve the preparation
and execution of annual work programs and budgets, the development and
implementation of the staff bonus and evaluation systems, the authorization
of project expenditures, and the operation of the Livestock Development
Fund. The Secretary General of FNEC and the Director General of LS,
assisted by the project co-director, would submit to IDA and all
cofinanciers, their respective quarterly and annual progress reports
showing actual and budgeted expenditure, statements of financial progress,
and objectives by project component for the forthcoming period. The
Directorate General would be reorganized into four departments:
Administration and Finance, Extension and Training, Pastoral Settlement,
and Research. The posts of LS Director General, the two Regional Directors
and the Head of Administration and Finance would at all times be filled by
staff with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA.
64.       The operation of the Livestock Development Fund (para 54) would
also be under the direct responsibility of the LS Director General and the
Project co-director. During project implementation. Goverrment would
submit, before October 1 of each year, detailed annual work programs and
budgets for IDA's approval. Each work program and budget would include



- 21 -
advance requests from IDA/IFAD for that year. and expected revenues, and
would provide details on the type, amount, and location of the investment
planned, the specific technology to be tested and the expected benefi-
ciaries, as vell as the number of staff to be reduced in each category, and
the amounts of redundancy payments projected for the following year.
65.       Technical Assistance.  Government is aware that technical
assistance is necessary to alleviate the lack of experienced local
technical and managerial staff. A total of 28 man-years (in financial
control and pastoral organization for FNEC, in extension, training,
research and pastoral settlement for LS, and in project management for
both), including 3 man-years under the PPF, together with 54 man-months of
short-term consultancy and 24 man-years of French volunteer services would
therefore be provided. Assurances were obtained that IDA's approval of
qualifications and conditions of employment would be obtained prior to the
employment of IDA/IFAD-financed TA personnel and short-term consultants.
The signing of satisfactory contracts for the co-director and the financial
controller would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Present Status of Project
66.       Most of the current activities of WLP are already geared towards
the initial implementation of the proposed Project. This trend will be
accelerated under a PPF advance of US$0.5 million, already approved.
Bidding documentation for the office and research laboratory are being
prepared and the first mobile herder training team is being launched. The
PPF advance will allow the TA staff of WLP to be retained for this project,
thus ensuring a fast and efficient initial implementation before the
proposed credit becomes effective. The modified regulation for sale and
slaughter of trypanotolerant cattle and the subsidiary financial agreements
are being prepared by Gover.ment, to avoid possible delays in Credit
effectiveness.
D - Project Costs and Financing Plan
Project Costs
67.       Total project costs over a five-year period are estimated at CFAF
14.4 billion (US$37.3 million), with a foreign exchange component of 52
percent. They include implicit taxes on locally procured items, but
exclude taxes and import duties on direct imports, since Government has
indicated that they would be waived. Cost estimates are based on early
1986 prices and include physical contingencies of 10 percent on all costs,
except technical assistance which carries 5 percent, and local salaries,
incentives and redundancy payments which do not require contingencies.
Price contingencies have been calculated according to Bank guidelines at
7.0 percent for 1986 and 1987, 7.5 percent for 1988, 7.7 percent for 1989
and 7.6 percent for 1990 and 4.5 percent for future years for the foreign
costs, and at 8 percent per year (current inflation is 5.6 percent) for the



- 22 -
local cost component. Total cont Lngencies are equivalent to 27 percent of
base cost estimates, or 21 percent of total costs.
68.       Project costs include US$17.4 million of investment costs, and
US$19.9 million of operating costs, US$10.6 million of which is
non-incremental. Project investment costs represent about 10 percent of
MDR's present and proposed investment budget. The non-incremental costs
include US$4.5 million from Government for LS salaries, US$5.7 million from
FNEC for the purchase of veterinary drugs, and US$0.4 million from FNEC for
its regular salaries. These costs are included in the total cost because
they form an integral part of the project, but would not be externally
financed. The US$9.3 million of incremental operating costs would be
financed by IDA (US$3.3 million), IFAD (US$1.1 million), EDF (US$0.4
million), Government (US$3.6 million equivalent) and FNEC and producers
(US$0.9 million). Goverment's contribution mainly covers local salaries,
and its contribution to the Livestock Development Fund. Experience under
WLP shows that local salaries are normally paid in time and would not
hamper project implementation. No difficulties are expected concerning
FNEC's and producers' contributions.
Financing Plan
69.       Total foreign financing would amount to US$22.2 million, which
would cover 60 percent of total project costs and 83 percent of the
incremental costs. Three cofinanciers have confirmed their intention to
cofinance the project. FAC has confirmed its contribution, equivalent to
about US$1.1 million, for experts, volunteers and some equipment to
strengthen FNEC's pastoral organizational and training department and to
assist the Bouar College. EDF has made provisions for a contribution of
about US$5.4 million toward the project to finance the FNEC input
distribution and LS pastoral settlement components, and the feeder road
component in the eastern part of the country. IFAD has confirmed its
interest in cofinancing 25 percent of the remaining components (US$3.8
million). The EDF and FAC contributions would be in the form of grants and
IFAD's in the form of a loan on highly concessional terms. Effectiveness
of the IDA Credit would be conditional on the effectiveness of the IFAD
Loan and Government's agreement to the first FAC advisor financed under the
FAC grant. Furthermore, assurances were obtained that Government would
execute the EDF agreement by June 30. 1987, or by that time would have
secured alternative financing on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
70.       On the basis of these cofinancing arrangements, the proposed IDA
Credit of US$11.9 million would finance 32 percent of total project costs
(35 percent of foreign costs and 29 percent of the local costs). The IDA
Credit would be used to finance construction, vehicles, equipment,
technical aseistance, and some local salaries and incremental operating
costs for the following: (a) FNEC's administration and financial depart-
ment; (b) FNEC's pastoral organization and training; (c) LS extension,
vaccination and staff retraining; (a) LS Research; (e) LS Livestock
Development Fund; (f) infrastructure in the western part of the country;
and (g) project management. Non-salary operating costs would be taken over



- 23 -
by the Livestock Development Fund after project completion; Government's
direct contribution to LS would not need to be increased in real terms. A
grant equivalent to US$2.5 million would be made from the proceeds of the
IDA Credit (US$1.8 million) and the IFAD Loan (US$0.7 million) to FNEC
under a subsidiary grant agreement between the Government and PNEC. The
signing of a grant agreement satisfactory to IDA is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
Accounts and Audits
71.       At Credit effectiveness, and upon request from the Borrower, IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$300,000 to a Special Account to be
operated by the Project Management Unit. Separate accounts would be opened
for the EDF and IFAD contributions. Government would moreover open an
account for local LS salary transfers from the Treasury and another account
to operate the Livestock Development Fund. The opening of these two
accounts would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Both LS and FNEC
have fulfilled their audit obligations, and their audit reports have been
generally on time. Assurances were obtained from Government and FNEC that
audited accounts and audit reports, especially on the LS salary account and
the Livestock Development Fund, would be submitted to IDA within six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
E - Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
72.       All goods, works and services financed by IDA would be procured
following Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for US$150,000 equivalent or
more would be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts below US$150,000 equivalent
would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) according to local
procedures which are acceptable to IDA, with contracts for less than
US$50,000 equivalent being awarded on the basis of quotations from at leasL
three suppliers. Procurement arrangement are given at Annex IV.
Disbursements
73.       The IDA credit (US$11.9 million) would be disbursed over a
seven-year period. The rate of disbursement follows that of the Bank
standard disbursement profile for area development projects in West Africa,
which reflects the project inputs more accurately than the profile for
livestock projects which is biased toward ranch development. The proceeds
of the IDA Credit would be shared in a 3:1 ratio between IDA and IFAD, with
the IDA credit being allocated as follows: civil works: US$1.8 million;
vehicles, equipment and materials: US$1.8 million; technical assistance,
training and studies: US$3.3 million; operating costs: for FNEC: US$0.6
million, for LS: US$1.8 million (para. 58), and for project management:
US$0.6 million. The Livestock Development Fund would be allocated US$0.3
(



- 24 -
million, while US$0.5 million would refund the PPF advance and US$1.2
million would remain unallocated.
74.       Disbursement against vehicles, equipment, materials, technical
assistance, training, audits and studies would be fully documented, and
disbursement against civil works, operating costs and maintenance and local
salaries would be against statements of expenditures certified by the
project co-director and the financial controller. Disbursement for the
Livestock Development Fund would be as an annual advance into the LS
operational account on the basis of the budget approved by IDA, and a
certified statement of expenditure afterwards. Full documentation would be
retained by FNEC and LS for review by IDA supervision missions and indepen-
dent auditors.
Cost Recovery
75.       Herders would pay the full purchase and distribution costs of
drugs and would be fully responsible for the maintenance of the dipping
tanks. Through the Market and Trypanocide taxes and the vaccination fees,
producers would directly finance the non-salary operating expenditures of
the LS for its extension and vaccination activities.
F - Production, Markets and Prices
76.       Annual incremental production as a result of the project would be
2,600 tons of meat and 6 million liters of milk in PY5 and 15,000 tons of
meat and 26 million liters of milk by PY20. The national cattle herd would
increase from 2.1 million to 2.4 million head by PY20, against 1.8 million
without the project, due to the prevailing high disease level. The export
prospects for the increased production are favorable. The increased meat
production would be almost entirely exported, thus making a significant
contribution to the country's balance of payments. West Africa is meat
deficient and if the present supply and demand trends continue, it will
need to import 2.0 million tons annually by the year 2000. Nigeria will
continue to exert a strong demand on neighboring countries. The actual
farmgate price of CFAF 220/kg liveweight is therefore assumed to remain
stable in constant 1985 terms. This price corresponds to US$900/ton of
carcass, which is significantly below the current world market price of
US$;,500-2,000/ton c.i.f., northern Nigeria, and in addition, the Nigerian
consumer prefers the leaner CAR product. Most of the incremental milk
production would be sold directly to villagers or consumed in households.
Studies are also underway for a processing plant in Bangui, and the pilot
small cheese-making plants to be tested under the project would also be a
possible outlet. A stable milk price of US$0.18/liter in constant 1985
terms (CFAF 80/1) as the farmgate price is therefore assumed.



- 25 -
G - Financial Results, Economic Benefits and Project Risks
77.       Financial Results.  For herders who adopt the health packages,
offtake and herd growth would increase by about 2 percent in PY5 and 3
percent in PY8, and the value of the herd, by CFAF 350,000 in constant
terms (US$900) from PY1 to PY5. For the Government, a main feature of the
project after completion is that recurrent expenditures would not need to
increase in real terms.  The cash flows of both FNEC and the LS would be
expected to improve significantly under the project. Higher drug sales
would increase FNEC's income, which would more than offset the loss of
income from the transfer of market taxes and vaccination fees to the LS.
At LS, implementation of the Action Plan would result in a saving of CFAF
125 million and an income of CFAF 235 million for non-salary operating
costs at project completion in current prices. As a result, the ratio of
salary/non-salary operating costs would change from 99.5:0.5 to about 70:30
in PY5 (CFAF 600 million: CFA 235 million). The total burden to the
Government, including adequate funds for road maintenance, would increase
from the current CFAF 550 million to CFAF 750 million after project
completion. This means that Government's direct contribution would have to
increase only in line with the projected inflation rate (8 percent), while
the increase in the share of non-salary operational costs would greatly
enhance LS operational capability.
78.       Economic Benefits.  The principal benefit expected from project
activities is that they would provide the CAR's livestock subsector with a
viable institutional framework for delivery of inputs and advice to
producers. This, in turn, would lead to the production increases detailed
above, to higher incomes, improved nutrition and higher exports. The
project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 15 percent. The
ERR was calculated by taking the economic costs of the project for the
first five years and operational and vehicle replacement costs for the
remaining 15 years. The benefit stream is the sum of the incremental value
of meat and milk and the meat value of herd increment that would result
from increased fertility and decreased mortality rates. Net present value
(NPV) with the opportunity cost of capital set at 12 percent, is about
US$7.4 million. The sensitivity analysis indicates that a decrease of 10
percent in benefits would lower the ERR to 14 percent, while a decrease of
20 percent would lower it to 12 percent. A lag in benefits of one year
would reduce the ERR to 13 percent and of a lag of two years to 12 percent.
Eliminating the research and pilot operations, and the infrastructure
component from the costs would raise the ERR to 20 percent and NPV to
US$15.8 million. About one-third of the total project costs would be
directed toward the poorer strata. Project benefits would be fairly
equally distributed between poorer and wealthier producers, with the former
benefitting most from the settlement component and other pilot activities
and the latter benefitting most from the drug distribution component.
79.       Project Risks.  There are no major technological risks in the
proposed general animal health package. The veterinary drugs have proven
their effectiveness in the CAR and there is a strong producer demand for



- 26 -
such drugs. Drug resistance resulting from under-dosing by laymen--the
only significant risk-would be reduced through the training program for
the producers and association pharmacists, follow-up by the LS, restriction
in the number and type of drugs sold, and the establishment of a
well-equipped diagnostic laboratory to monitor drug resistance.
80.       Pastoral organization, and in particular the pastoral settlement
scheme, might be considered risky since these types of operations have
often failed in West Africa. However, climatic conditions in the CAR are
more favorable for settlement than in the Sahel, where most experience in
pastoral organization originates. Furthermore, initial experience under
WLP has been successful and the same approach of working within traditional
structures by creating herders' associations to provide a service which the
producerg regard as worthwhile.
81.       The major institutional risk would arise from poor motivation of
LS staff and their lack of communication with the producers. However, the
modified bonus system, the LS reorganization including improved internal
communications, and a systematic control system of field staff would
minimize this risk. The stability and competence of FNEC leadership and
administrative and financial management due to the limited availability of
capable people would be a second concern. However, the revision of FNEC's
statutes, the recruitment of an experienced finAncial controller, the
training component for young herders, and the strengthening of the
Coordination Committee would consolidate and enhance FNEC's positive
performance.
Environmental Risks
82.       The project does not carry any substantial environmental risks.
The insecticide used in the cattle dips (Lindane) is considered safe for
general use. Precautions would be taken, however, not to pollute streams
with effluents. The tsetse control screens and traps made of pyrethroid
compounds are environmentally safe. Overgrazing would not be an issue at
the national level since the growth of the cattle herd would still be far
below the national carrying capacity. Finally, at local levels, the pilot
pastoral settlement scheme would result in better grazing management
practices and in the development of a stable and long-term land use system.



- 27 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 24, 1986



; ::                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX  I
- 28 -                                              Page 1 of 8
aA It Li                                          t SL  IVL
CENTRAL APR. l#PURLC   - SOlAL lHlIC4TUoS DATA SHEET
CENtRAL AR. RSPUU tC                RIVERKHCK rOmPs (twHUNTESD AVIRAGEb) 
M1ST                     (MuIT RiCbNT EbTIMA^T) ft
RbEoCENTS Uot INt[lH   AFIIICA 4          lDDILE ItCUltI
tesoth.!    IW0OIk lISSTINATIlL      MSUTH oF SAHAIRA     AFLCA b. oF SNAARA
aA (HOUND SQ. U)
TOTAL                              b23.0       12l.0       b23.0
ACGtICULTURAL                       47.3        4a.3        4'q6
cUP PER CAPITA (NS)                     ..          ..        250.0             231.0                    IUb3.t
ENMY ODNUIPTWON PER CAPM
(CttOGmms  OtF OIL mUIVALENT)       20.0        44.0        32.0              62.1                     582.3
PODUTIO ANMD VITAL STATIStJCS
POPULATION.MID-YEAR (T'HOUSANDS)   IbUS.0     267i.0      2470.ui
URBAN POPULATION (R OF TOTAL)       22.7        31.1        43.7              20.1                      34.U
POPULATION PROECTLOOS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20W  (CHILL)                            4.0
STATIOlt4Y POPUIATIUO (MILL)                              12.0
POPULATION ICHENItI                                        1.9
POPULATION UC115TY
PER Sq. Im.                        2.6         3.0         4.0              33.2                      b5.1
PSR SQ. IW. AGRI. LAND            34.0        30.9        4h.5             112.8                     124.0
POPULATION AGE STUCTUItE (C)
0-14 YRS                         37.6        39.6        42.0              4b.0                      45.6
25-b4 YIRS                        56.2        56.6        55.2              50.8                      31.5
65 AND ABOPE                       3.3         3.6         2.7               2.9                       2.7
POPULATION CROWH RATE (2)
TOTAL                              1.2         I.b         2.1               2.5                       2.9
URBAN                              4.7         4.7         3.1               1.4                       5.1
CRIDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        43.0        42.8        41.0              47.2                      47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER T1OUS)       26.0        22.7        16.b              17.8                      15.0
CROSS REPRODJUCTltN RlATE            2.0         2.4         2.7               3.3                       3.2
FAMILY PLIANNILNG
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS ( OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          ..          ..                3.3                       6.4
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDElt oF POOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100                       100.0       100.0        9".0              53.3                     6SY
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF REQUIREMENTS)      8t6.0      100.0        97.0              57.7                      50.5
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          35.0        42.0        *4.0             5M.                        55.4
OF WRHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0        11.0        11.0 IC          I.7                       16.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEAIH RATE         52.0        42.0        29.D              23.1                      16.6
LIFt ExPECT. AT BIRTHt (YHARS)      39.2        *2.1        47.6              47.8                      52.0
NF4AMr tORT. RATE (PER IllOUS)     194.5       172.5       142.0             119.5                     IU8.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         17.4 Id           27.1                      42.4
UltBAN                             .4 40.0 7                                63.5                      67.5
RURAL                              ..          ..          5.0 Id           I9.3                      35.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         72.0         ..               26.5                      20.9
UBAN                               ..         64.0         ..               65.4                      57.7
RURAL                              ..         96.0         ..               2U.8                      20.7
POPULATION PMR PIYSICIAN         51770.u    44740.0    26750.0 1.          27901.7                   11791.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3410.0      1620.0      1740.0 T/         330b.4                    2459.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            850.0       540.0       710.0 Id          1273.b                    Y61.1
£tRN                             730.0       630.0       590.0 7W          423.2                     365.8
RURAL                            890.0       520.0       910.0 7W         3292.5                    4371.9
ADIIISStOtS PCR HOSPITAL BED         ..         21.9        19.3 Ic             .-                      27.2
IODUSIO
AVERAGE SIZE OF HuOSEHOLO
TOTAL                              3.9
URBAN                                          ..
RURAL                              ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RO0M
TOTAL                              3.4
URlut..                                        .            .                 ..
RURAL
PERCENTAGE or DWELUNCS YITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..
URinAl                             ..
RURAL                              ..



29-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
cutmnlaL An. HEWUILIC   - SOcIAL INDXClATOR DATA 11t 1?
CENTRAL Atl. REPUiLIC                ISPEWtt        P GOS (WSIOH3rU AVERAUIS) p
IOST                     (l1U5T agcu? ESTIHATST ) /bk
£scCII         LIR 1NCOtIS  VRltCA       14I0OLK INCOME
IS6UM       397&U  *wtiatdk.T        SOUTn uV SANARA        AFIlCA S. t1' bHAIIA
ADJUTID CNflLIzSNT RAUtt
PRtAC: I  ToTAL                    32.0        64.0        70.0               *7.e                     V5*7
tWA                     53.0        90.0        92.U               77.b                     10U.U
FDALC                   12.0        41.0        5U.0               54.v                     85.2
IECONDARTi TOTAL                    1.0         5.0        14.0               13.5                      17.3
MALE                     2.0         6.0        21.0               17.                       25.U
..                                 2.0         7 "                9.1                       14.5
VOCATIONAL (3 Of SCDNDARY)           10.0     12169.6         9.3               13.2                       5.9
PUPIL-TLACUR RATIO
PRIMARY                           56.0         64.0        61.0               44.9                      41.1
S     YCONAR                      30.0        21.0         62.0 If           27.4                       25.5
PASSENIGR CARSITHOUUAND PoP           1.4         3.3         6.5 /d             3.8                      2u.b
RADIO RCCIVEPS/TNOUSAND POP          7.5         24.5        56.1              55.8                     107.h
TV RECEVRS/THUUSAND POP               ..          ..          0.5                2.6                      20.b
NEWSPAPR ("DILY CENtRAL
INTERSTr") CIRCUiaTLN
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             0.3          0.3         ..                 5.0                      Ib.4
CIN01   ANNUAL ATTENDACEICAPITA      0.2          0.3  t      ..                0.5                       0.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THO1US)          969.0      1084.0      1312.0
FnLE (PERCENT)                    49.4         49.0        49.1               34.2                      30.2
AZRICILTUE (PERCENT)               94.0        91.U        aS. O              77.5                      54.5
INDUSTRY (iP'RCOaf)                2.0          3.0        4.0ft              9.7                       18.3
PARTICIPATlON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              60.4        57.7        53.1               39.3                      5m.6
MALE                              63.2         61.2        5b.3               50.9                      47.1
FUNLE                              57.7        54.4        SO.b               28.1                      Z7.2
ECONOMIC DEPENNCY RATIO               0.7         0.6         0.8                1.3                       1.3
INSC DISBTIUWIOU
PERCEiT OF RIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF NOUSEHOLDS            ..
HICHtS? 20Z OF HDUSEHOLDS          ..
LOE5? 20  OF HOUSEHOLDS              .
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
uOVm TAR GRUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
1EVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..               165.5                     590.7
RURAL                                           .          49.0 /d            95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED REIATM  POVERtY INCDE
LEVEM  (US PE  CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..               113.1                     545.6
RURAL                                     .                93.0 /d            67.6                    201.1
ESTIIMTED POP. SELG ABSOLIKE
POVERTY INCOM LEVEL (2)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                36.6
RURAL                                                                         bS.  .  61
Not AYLAfll
NOT APPLICABLE
M O T E S
Ia   The  roup averages for each indicator are popuLation-wligted arlttaetic mamn. Coverae of countries
among the iudicator. depend. - availability of data and ia not uniform.
lb  Unle.. otbexute noted. IData for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971: and data for "fot Recent  etidte" betwen  1961 and 1983.
Ic  1977;  Id 1978; Ie 1979; If 1960;  /A  1965.
JUNE. 19E5



-30-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
D)EVINITION5; OF SOCIAL INDICATORlS
Noe: Atlhoagh the data are drawn from source generaily udged the most authoniative dnd reliable. it should MlMI he noted that 1Ihe) Ma not lie Inieenaiuonally
comparable becAuse of the lack or atandardird definitions and concepts used .' dilferent counies in collecting the data The data are. nonithelessl. seful to
describe orders of magnitude. indicate tmnds. and characiertee critin major dilferences between countres
The rfrcemm  groups ar gi the amnw country Sroup or the tubject country and t2i a countr arroup with somewhat higher ovirage in.me thain the country
group o ithe subject country tescept for High Income OCl Esporters' group where "Middk Invome North Afrtic ind Middle East" is chosen because oftrongr
aoo-cultueal atlMnttsi In the refemnr group datua the averaige are piptlation weighted arithmetic meant ror each indicasur and shown smnly when majoriy
tithe countries in a group has data (or that indicator Since the cslierage ocountrie, among the indicators depends on the availability ofditta and is not uniform.
caution must be exmited in relating awerp ofone indicator to another. These averagstc are onlb useful in comparing the value of one indicalor a a time among
the cauntry and reference grnups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                              CrudeBir th Rate per tkousandj  Numher of live birth mt the year
Tral---Total surface area compnsing land area and inland waIers     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
1960. 1970 and 19q3 data.                                           Crudr Death Rate (per thleasad)- Number of deaths in the year
Agrkuburut-Estimaet of agricultural arcit used temporarily or       per thousand ur mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Gross Repreelction Rate  Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specilic fertility nites. usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (tlSS)  GNP per capita esimates at current           in 1960. 1Q70. and 19113.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as Wifr/d       Fanily PIanWaa-Acepmars. Annual (rhousands) - Annual num-
Banik Atlas ( 19111-813 bnsis:. 19813 data.                         her of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA  Annual apparent                      amilyplannngprogrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.         Family Plmiag-fstrs (percent efnsarried twinsts--The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal clec-      age of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms  fl' oil equivalent per capila; 1960. 197n. and  whose husbands are practicing anv form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                          ofchild-hearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraccptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups.
Total P.pulaiade.Mid- Yeearfdmeusamdsj  As offJuly I; 1960. 1970.   FO    N    URTO
and 1983 data.                                                      FOOD AND NUTRITION
Uefx of Food Preducrim Per Cpita (1969-71 - IOOJ  I ndex of per
Vouati Pon; differ ext  ofefini  l)Rations   r urhn ra  an affecto topar-  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population. different dcfinitions of urban areas may affect ctampr-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. aind 19813 data.       include primarv commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
PpAolaio Proe*dons                                                  which are edible and contain nutrients (c.g. coffee and tea are
Population in vear 2000--The projection of population for 2000.     excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on      vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and supr beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortalitv rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production ofeach country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters     tin national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   19N2 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 P, Capita Supply of Calries (percent ofrequireents)- -Comput-
Srationuri population  Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed rrom calorieequivalent of net food supplies availablein country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level   tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also     food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activirv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ordecline of rertility  age and sex distribution orpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                          waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Mofnrenun--ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supplr of Proein (grams per day) - Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population an the year r is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 1O grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
went level from year r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams or total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
hpeei  D&*siy                                                       average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Prr sqkkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-       Supply: 1961. 1970 and 198 data
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,                    Per Capita Protei Supply Fron .4nimnal and Puse--Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land- -Computed as above for agricultural   of rood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960.1970. and 19812 data.                               1970 and 19T7 data
Pepaem  Age Stute (percent) - Children tO-14 vearsl. work-          Cild (ages lJj Death Rareper rhoausamd   Number ofdeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired 65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 'ejr. pCr thus-and children in the same age
or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  group in a gisen %rar For mo't declor'ing countries data derived
from life table%. I *0. IQ-0tn .J 14S: diti
patioen CGrowth Rat(percentj-eosal- Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Popuieiw Growth Rae (percent )-urhan  Annual growth rates           life Expectancy di Birth i.yedr. a umn er . tear' s ner.born
or urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-3 data.          infant would hIne it presailing r.ttcrn. .f mortalit% IBor .dl pcople



-31 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
at the time of ir its hirth were i sisy the same throughout i% lire;  liptld-te'n h r Rain'  prrtmnari. and .rmdadurr-- Total students en.
1960. 1970 and 19113 data.                                        rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers or
Infait Mortality Rate (per sJhosand) - -Number of infants who die  teachers in the corresponding levels.
hefore reaching one year ol age per thousand live hirths in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                   CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Water (pemmt of populatIrnt-rtal. urban, and       Passenwer Cars (per thosand populalon) -Passenger cars com-
rwri-- Number of people (total, urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars sating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or   ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected    Radei Receivrs (per tihusand popuatleronJ-All types of receivers
boreholes. springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
oive populations. In an urban area a public fiountain or standposzt  excluder   un-licersed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered   registration of radio sets was in effect: data for rcent years may
as being within reasonahle access of that housc. In rural areas   not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the houswife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the dav  TV Receivers (per thousandipopulation)- TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the Family's water needs.                             to geneial public per thousand population. excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Accerss to &ecreto Disposal (percent of popuilatieon-total urban,  in effect
and rural- - Number of people (total. urbnr. and rural) served by
excrcta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Nrwspapr Ckulasion (per thusand population--Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may includc the collcction and disposal. with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human cxcreta and waste-water by water-     periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
hbrne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to he "daily" ir it appears at least four times a week.
Population per Physician- -Pbpulation divided by number of prac-  Ciwema ASNnal Attendace per Capt per Year-- Based on the
tising physicians qualiRfed from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popla'ion per Nursin Perso--Population divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                         L ABOR FORCE
Population per Hospisa Red--total, urban and ruwa  Population     coudn Labor fore   adousaneloy - Edonomitally aective perhons. in-
(total. urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of   cludeng arencd forcer and unemployed but exaluding housewivts.
hospital beds available in public and private, general andspecialized  students. tcu.. covernoc population Of   all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  variouscountriesarenoteomparabk: E90. 1970and 1983data.
permanently stafled hv at least one phvsician. Establishments prov-  Fmale  (percent)- Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial camr are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriculture (pereent)  Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician ibut by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 19R0
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                           Industry (percent)-- Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admissiu is per Hospital Red---Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.          force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Particition Rate (percent)-total. male andfeslkPtrtieipation
HOUSING                                                           or activity rates are computed as total. male. and fiemale labor force
Average Si:e of Horsehold (persons per househodi-ottal urbmn,     as percentagcs or total, male and female population of all ages
antdru- A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 19K3 data. These are based on LO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex strunctu .,i'hehpopulation.and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Vumber of Persons per Room-toral, arban, and rural-       Eeonomic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room  in all urban. and rural       65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwelings with Electricit--rotal, urban, and rwual   Percentage of Tota Dposable Ineome (barh in esh and kind)--
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked bv total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.           hold income.
EDUCATION                                                         POVERTY' TARGET GROLUPS
Adjasted Enrollmenr Ratios                                        The following estimates are ver' approximate measures orpoverty
Primarr chool - toal,. male and (f-male  Gross total. male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fernale enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Poerty Income Level (USI per capita)-urban
respective primarv school-age populations. While manv countries   and rural Absolutc povertv income level is that income level
consider primarv school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutrntionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in countrv practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are relected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Reltive Pavert- Income Lerel f U5S per capitar-urban
education. gross enrollment mav exceed 10t  percent since some    and rural-- Rural relative povenv income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the co untry's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the countrv. Urban level is
age.                                                              derived from the rural level vith adjustment fior higher cost of
Secacndarr school - toral, male and femaL- -Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Popultion Below Absolute Poverty Inconme Level (per-
mary instruction: provides general. vocational. or teacher training  enrJo-urban and rurl- PLrcent of population turhan and rural
instructions for pupils usualiv of 12 to 17 vears of age: correspond-  who are -ahsolute pooxr.
ence courses are geerally excluded.
V-oettonal Enriblment 'per rn  of seriemdrnl - Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical. industrial. or other programs which olperate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independentl;' or as departments of secondary institutions.                                June 1985



-32 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
Economic Development Data Sheet
Table 1:  CAR - Gross Domestic Product by Origin  (value-added),  1975-85
(in billions of CFAF)
1975   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
est.
at current prices
Agriculture                             28.5   55.8   63.4   70.5   75.6   85.5   95.5  106.1
Industry                                17.3   32.2   31.8   33.6   41.6   43.0   49.5   54.5
Mining                           7.4   13.0   13.1  U1.5   12.5   13.0   14.6   15.0
Manufacturing                    5.7   11.8   11.4   13.2   16.9   17.2   18.9   20.8
Water & Electricity              0.7    1.0    1.2    1.9    2.8    2.5    3.5    4.6
Construction & Public Works      3.5    6.4    6.1    7.0    9.4   10.3   12.5   14.1
Services                                34.8   54.8   63.3   73.6   85.3   86.3   98.5  U12.6
Commerce                        14.5   21.2   24.6   27.3   32.4   33.0   40.6   48.9
Transport & Telecommunications  4.2    4.4    5.6    6.8    8.3    8.8   10.2   11.7
Public Services                 11.3   22.0   25.4   30.9   35.3  36.0   38.4   41.9
Private Services                 4.8    7.2    7.7    8.6    9.3    8.5    9.3   10.1
GDP at Factor Cost                80.6  142.8  158.5  177.7  202.5  214.8  243.5  273.2
indirect Taxes Less Subsidies           8.1    9.9   11.1  14.0   15.4   16.4   17.5
GDP at Market Prices                    80.6  150.9  168.4  188.8  216.5  230.2  259.9  290.7
at constant 1977 prices
Agriculture                             44.5   47.6   46.9   46.1   48.3   46.3   50.6   52.1
Industry                                22.0   24.7   25.0   23.0   22.1   24.1   24.8   25.1
Mining                          10.6    9.5   10.1   10.1    9.5    9.5    9.7    9.8
Manufacturing                    6.8    8.4    8.2    7.4    7.0    7.1    7.2    7.3
Water & Electricity              0.8    0.9    0.9    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.9    0.9
Construction & Public Works      3.8    5.9    5.8    4.7    4.8    6.7    7.0    7.1
Services                                40.3   43.0   41.5   42.5   42.0   39.4   37.4   38.5
Comerce                         16.5   15.8   15.2   17.2   17.0   15.4   13.6   14.1
Transport & Telecommunications  4.2    5.8    5.4    4.6    4.8    4.8    5.1    5.3
Public Services                 13.9   15.3   14.9   17.9   14.6   14.4   13.8   14.0
Private Services                 5.7    6.1   67.0    5.8    5.6    4.8    4.9    5.1
GDP at Factor Cost               106.8  115.3  113.4  111.6  112.4  109.8  112.8  115.7
Indirect Taxes Less Subsidies   7.2    8.1    5.3    4.4    4.1    4.4    5.1    5.2
CDP at Market Prices                   114.0  123.4  118.7  116.0  116.5  114.8  117.9  120.9
Average Annual Growth Rate                      -2.7   -3.8   -2.3    0.4   -2.3    3.6    2.6
Implicit GDP Deflator (1977-100)        70.7  122.3  141.9  162.8  185.9  202.3  220.5  240.3
Source:  Central African authorities and staff estimates.
February 1986



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
Economic Oevelmoaent Data Sheet
-         Table 2:    CAR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(tn milLions o0  US Dollars at current pricesi
ITEM                   1975      1976     1977      1979     1979      1930     1991      1992      1913     1994      1995
Est.
I. EllPORTS(1NFSI                  65.9    106.4    :13.1    149.3    1t5.5    209.3    279.5    152.2    152.2    149.2    154.2
2.     MERCHANDISE (FOB)            57.9     B3.7    116.4    13.2    1331.;    154.0    127.0    112.b    116.3    114.7    118.5
3.     NON-FACTOR SERVICES          B0.0     22.7      1b.7     26.1      34.3     53.5      51.5      39.6     36.0      34.6     35.6
4. INPORTSIG+NFS)                  159.b    141.9    194.0    219.9    245.9    340.8    252.1    2bO.9    264.3    241.4    237.9
5.     MERCHANDISE IFCOI            83.1     77.4    103.8    119.2    339.2    196.9    156.0         62.5    255.1    143.3    245.4
6.     NUN-FACTOR SERVICES          76.5     64.5      90.2    100.6    106.7    143.9       96.1    118.4    109.2       91.2     92.5
7. RESOURCE BALANCE               -73.7    -35.5    -50.9    -70.5    -90.4   -12.5    -73.6  -129.7   -112.1    -92.2    -63.9
S. NET FACTOR INCOME                -0.5      1.1       0.4      0.4       0.9      2.4       4.9      16.4      13.4     10.5     11.7
9.     FACTOR-RECEIPTS               2.9      2.9        .       2.7       2.9       4.3      9.1       .a      22.0      19.3     20.4
10.     FACTOR PAYMENTS               3.3      1.8       2.4      2.2       1.       1.9       3.3      6.4       9.7       7.9      9.9
i1.     (IMLT INTEREST PAID
INCLUDING FUND CHARGESI      12.01    (1.23    12.01    (2.21    (1.41    (1.43    12.21    (4.0)    '7.33    16.63    18.11
12. NET CURRENT TRANSFERS            -1.9     -3.4      -3.9     -4.4    -12.2    -13.9    -14.0    -17.0    -15.0    -13.0    -12.1
13.     TRANSFER RECEIPTS             6.4      6.2       0.1      7.1      1:.3      5.        5.2       3.7      3.4       3.0      2.7
14.     TRANSFER PAYMENTS            10.3      9.6      12.0     11.5      23.5     24.1      19.1      20.7     19.4      16.0     14.6
15. CURRENT BALANCE                 -76.1    -35.6    -54.4    -74.4    -91.7   -149.1    -92.8   -129.3   -113.b    -94.7    -84.2
N & LT CAPITAL 'NFLOD
1i.     DIRECT INVESTMENT             5.b      3.9        .7     13.;       43       4.7       7.0       7.6      7.9       8.0      B.3
17.     FFICIAL ERMNT                40.2     45.2      ;5.4     49.1      91.2    101o.      62.1     37.3;      9.2      57.2     52.1
IS. NET N & LT LOANS 'RS             9.9      S2.1  1 0.4        25.9      12.3     39.6      .".5      :a.'     21.7      27.:     29.8
19.     DISBURSEMENTS                :3.-     10.0    1,         :2.4:    J3.1      40.?      34.3'     I.0      32.9      33.7     42.2
2O.     REFAYMIENTS                  -;.D     -1.;      -LY      2         -        -1.1      -:.9              -21.:      -I.4    -13.
2I. OTHER t S LT  NETS I                         - :      .o      :.;       2.a     l.S        1.       2.4       3.1       3.8      1.3
. NET CREDIT FROM IMF              2.9       5.9      O.       -                  -0.9      17.7      2. 1      4.5      -1.4      0.4
23.     OISBURSEHENTS                 :.       X5                 *R.       0.0       .6b    20.6        2.7      4.7       5.0     10.4
4.      REPAYMENTS                            -I.e               -.9       -3.;     -9.5      -2.9      -0.6     -0.3      -6.4    -10.0
25. NET SHORT-TERN CAPITAL           7.9    -1.0        10. 2    -3.4      -I.&      9.0      -4.a      a.2      -2.b        .7      2.9
26. CAPITAL FLONS YEl                                                       2.8      ;-;       :.a       6.2      6.9       7.6
27. EPPORS i 591;518tiS               '.0     -3.4 -14.5    4-5           -3.b -21.          -_9.1    -35.9      -4.9      27.2     -7.6
25. CHANGE IN RESERVJE LEVEL         -').9    -;5.5     -0.4      11.1    -4.9   p.c           4.5      ;2.6      3.9    -11.0       -2.1
(- indicates increase)
Source: Central African author:ties and stai Estilates
February 1986



-34-                                   ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
Economic Development Data Sheet
Table 3: CAR - Fiscal Developments, 1971-85
(in billions of current CFAF)
Annual
Avorape                                                            eat.
1971-75   1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
1. Budgetary Revenue                   11.7   13.6  16.8  17.8  20.1  21.7  24.9  35.8  36.2  39.6  42.4
Tax Revenue                         11.2   13.0  16.0  17.0  19.3  20.9  23.2  30.8  30.9  33.2  36.4
Taxes on International Trade       4.2    4.9   6.6   7.1   8.8  10.5  11.6  12.8  13.5  14.5  15.7
Taxes on Goods & Services          2.8    3.4   4.0   3.5   4.1   4.2   4.8   7.8   7.4   7.9   8.8
Taxes on Net Income & Profits      2.7    3.0   3.3   3.9   4.0   4.1   4.5   7.4   7.0   7.5   8.2
Other Taxes                        1.5    1.7   1.9   2.5   2.4   2.1   2.3   2.8   3.0   3.3   3.7
Non-Tax Revenue                      0.5    0.6   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   1.7   5.0   5.3   6.4   6.0
2. Current Expenditure                 14.3   17.6  21.0  22.7  27.4  29.4  32.9  37.4  39.4  37.0  38.5
Wages & Salaries                     7.7   10.8  12.7  12.6  17.2  18.7  21.7  23.7  23.9  23.4  23.8
Materials & Supplies                 3.5    3.8   4.6   4.6   7.2   6.8   6.6   6.7   7.4   5.4   6.2
Scheduled Interest Payments          0.7    0.9   1.0   2.9   0.9   1.0   1.0   2.9   3.3   3.4   4.5
Transfers & Subsidies                2.4    2.1   2.7.  2.6   2.1   2.9   3.6   4.1   4.8   4.8   4.0
3. Current Surplus/Deficit             -2.6   -4.0  -4.2  -4.9  -7.3  -7.7  -8.0  -1.6  -3.2   2.6   3.9
4. Capital Expenditure  */              1.6    1.3   1.9   2.2   0.5   1.0   2.2   2.7   3.8   2.7   4.6
5. Budgetary Expenditure (2+4)         15.9   18.9  22.9  24.9  27.9  30.4  35.1 40.1  43.2  39.7  43.1
6. Overall Budg2tary
_UrplUS/Deticit                     -4.2   -5.3  -6.1  -7.1  -7.8  -8.7 -10.2  -4.3  -7.0  -0.1  -0.7
7. Financing                            4.2    5.3   6.1   7.1   7.8   8.7  10.2   4.3   7.0   0.1   0.7
Domestic                             1.3    0.3   0.4   2.3   0.4   0.6   4.1  -1.5   2.1   0.8   2.2
Foreign (net)                        1.4    2.1   3.2   1.6   7.1   7.5   8.8   5.6   4.0   3.1   0.5
of which Grants                   (1.0)  (1.8) (1.6) (1.0) (5.8) (7.4) (5.6) (5.0) (3.4) (3.5) (3.5)
Arrears                              1.5    2.9   2.5   3.2   0.3   0.6  -2.7   0.2   0.9  -3.8  -2.0
a/ Investments financed by foreign sources excluded.
Source: Central African authorities.
February 1986



- 35 -
ANN LX I
Pnge 8 of 8
Economic Development Data Shdot
Central African Republic
1977    1979    1990      niel    1912    1913    1984   i15
MONEY, CREDIT ANID PRICES                                                                              KTt.
lin CFAF billims otstantding end poriMl
MNUEY SUPPLY                             20.5    27.1    34.4    45.3    42.9    49.0    51.7    59.0
BN  CREDIT TO 6OVERINENTInotI             10.9    12.9    13.1    14.9    10.7    11.3    10,1    12.5
ANK CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR              14.7    15.6    23.5    24.4    30.4    30.8    30.6    33.0
NONEY RS   OF GDP                         14.6    19.0    21.7    24.0    19.9    20.9    19.9    20.0
GENERAL PRIE INDEX                       100.0   122.3   141.9   142.9   185.9   202.3   220.5   240.3
ANNUAL GROWTH RATES
GENERAL PRICE INDEX                  11.0    14.9    14.0    14.7    14.2        9.9      9.0      9.0
BNNK CREDIT TO GOVERNMENT (notl      11.3     4.6    11.3    29.0   -37.1        5.9   -10.4    23.5
BANK CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR        14.0     3.1    50.4       4.1    24.2       1.4    -0.7      7.9
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS [in US S millions)
EXPRTS F 6OODS, IFS                      133.1   126.5   209.3   179.5   152.2   152.2   149.2   154.2
IMPOTS OF SGODS, IFS                     194.0   245.    340.9   252.1   290.9   264.3   241.4   237.9
RESOURCE GW                             -50.9   -80.4  -132.5   -73.4  -j21. 7  -112.1   -92.2   -93.7
INTEREST PAYMEITS (NET)                  -2.0    -1.4    -1.4    -2.2    -4.0    -7.3    -4.6    -11.1
NET TRANSFERS AND OThER                  -1.5    -9.9   -15.2    -7.0         3.4     5.9      4.1      7.6
FACTOR PAYMENTS
CURRENT ACCOT BALACE                    -54.4   -91.7  -149.1   -B2.B  -129.3  -113.4   -94.7   -84.2
DIRECT PRIVATE INVESTMENT                  3.7    34.3      4.7      7.0      7.6     7.9      8.0      8.3
CAPITAL GRANTS                           35.4    91.2   101.3    82.1    87.3    68.2    57.2    52.1
NET N I L TERM LOAMS                      18.4    12.9    39.4    31.5    16.7    21.7    27.3    29.8
DISBSMENTS                           21.3    13.1    40.7    34.3    19.0    32.9    33.7    42.1
REPAIYMETS                           -2.9    -0.3    -1.1    -2.8    -2.3   -11.2    -6.4   -13.3
OTHER CAPITAL NET                        -2.7   -34.7       3.0   -42.6   -14.9       6.9    13.2    -2.9
OVERALL BALANCE                           -0.4    -9.9      0.5      4.9    32.4       8.9   -11.0    -2.1
NET FOREIGN ASSETS (END YEAR)            -4.5     14.0    29.3    30.9    16.4    19.4    30.2    30.4
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (VERAGE 1992-141                   IBREDID4 LENDING, DECEMBER 31, 294 (USS millions
Us SaIR. I of total                                             IBRn    ID
COFFEE                           30.9    26.9          OUTSTANDING AND DISB2RSED                       49.1
DIAMONDS                         29.9    25.2          UNDISURSED                                      24.2
COTTDN                           14.6    12.7          DUTSOANDIU AND UNDISBURSED                      73.3
TIIIER?                          23.0    20.1
TOBCCO                            3.0      2.6         RATES OF EXOANGE                      YEAR    CFAF PER USS
OTHER GOODS                      14.4    12.5                                                ---
TOTAL                        114.5   100.0                                                 1975       214.32
I174      239.99
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1994 (US  o sillionsl                                             177       245.41
---------------  ------                            1979  225.46
PUBLIC DEBT, INCL.GUARANTEED             224.5                                                1979       212.72
NON-GURRANTEED PRIVATE DEBT                                                                   1990       211.29
TOTAL OUTSTANING AND J IOB5USED          245                                                  1          271.73
2992      329.41
DEBT SERVICE RATIO IN 1984  1             11.5 2                                               I193      311.06
______   ._ _ _                                                    1994       434.94
9IS5 iest.1467.57
I/ DOt Service as percentage of exports of Goods and NF5.
February 1986



- 36 -
ANNEX II
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985)
Credit                                              Amount (US$ million)
Number         Year     Borrower      Purpose       Total   Undisbursed
Six Credits Y  have been fully disbursed.           33.26     --
894-CA         1979       CAR        Livestock       2.50       0.29
1150-CA 3/     1981       CAR        Technical
Assistance     4.00        0.04
1258-CA        1982       CAR        Highways IV   18.00        5.92
1359-CA        1983       CAR        Education II  11.00        6.19
1376-CA        1983       CAR        Cot. a Area
Rural
Development   10.40        5.36
1581-CA        1985       CAR        Second T.A.    8.00        8.67
Total                    87.16      26.47
- of which has been repaid           0.66
- now outstanding                   86.50
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1985).
Nil.
1/ Highways I, Highways II, Highways II, Supplementary Financing for
Highways III, Education I, and Supplementary Financing for
Education I.
2/ Less cancellations.
3/ Beginning with Credit 1150, Credits have been denominated in SDRs.
The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalent
at the time of Credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalent as of September 30, 1985 for the undisbursed
amounts.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project  : Nine months
(b)   Project prepared by             : Government and consultants
under Franch bilateral aid
(c)   Appraisal Mission               : June 1985
(d)   Negotiations                    : March 1986
(e)   Target for Credit effectiveness:  July 1986
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
A PPF advance of US$0.5 million has been approved to accelerate
preparation of civil works bidding documents; to retain T.A. staff engaged
under the First Project, and to train key staff.
Section III:     Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained regarding:
(a) Maintenance of roads rehabilitated under the project (para. 55);
(b)  Institutional reform under th. -.ction Plan (para. 58);
(c) Deposit of salaries into the LS salary account (para. 61);
(d)  Submission of quarterly and annual progress reports, and work
plans and budgets (para. 63);
(e) The posts of the LS Director General, the two Regional Directors
and LS Head of Administration and Finance would at all times be
held by staff with experience and qualifications acceptable to
IDA (para. 64);
(f) Submission of detailed work programs and budgets for the
Livestock Development Fund (para. 64);
(g) IDA approval of the qualifications and conditions of employement
of T.A. staff and short-term consultants (para. 65);
(h)  By June 30, 1987. the EDP grant agreement would have been
executed or the Government would have found alternative sources
of finance an terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 69);
Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) the sale of trypanotolerant cattle had been deregulated (para.
26);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Government had designated the Market and Trypanocide taxes and
other revenue. generated by LS vaccination fee. as direct
revenues for non-salary operatlng costs of the LS (para. 59);
(c) MDR had issued a decree establishing a uniform bonus scheme,
acceptable to IDA, for staff in all externally funded projects
under NDR's supervision (para. 61)
(d) the contracts of the project co-director and the financial
controller had been signed (para. 65);
(e) conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan
agreement had been fulfilled; and the Government had agreed upon
one FAC advisor (para. 69);
(f) the subsidiary Grant Agreement had been executed on behalf of the
Government and FNEC (para. 70); and
(g) two LS accounts had been opened to receive Government
contributions for salary and non-salary expenditures,
respectively (para. 71).
A Condition for the release of the last two tranches of the LS
operating costs would be Government's timely and satisfactory performance
in meeting the Action Plan conditions (para. 58).



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
PROJECT COSTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ '000)
Cofluanclers                Total
Procurement Element       ICB       LCB    Procurement        Other     Costs
Civil Works               2,100       600       3,800           100      6,600
(1,500)    (500)          -            -       (2,000)
Vehicles, Equipment       2,100       600         600            -       3,300
and Materials          (1,600)    (400)          -             -      (2,000)
Technical Assistance,       -         -         1,700         5,000 !/  6,700
Training and Studies      -         -            -         (3,700)   (3,700)
Operating Costs,            -         -           400        12,600 d/  13,000
Maintenance and           -         -            -         (3,400)    (3,400)
Local Salaries
Drugs                       -         -                       5,700-' 5,700
Livestock Development       -         -            -          1,500     1,500
Fund                      -        -             -           (300)     (300)
Project Preparation         -         -            -            500       500
Facility                            -            -           (500)     (500)
Total                     4,200   1,200         6,500        25,400    37,300
&.1202)  41222)         -m        2S2U )  (1±.2°°)
a/    Subject to EDF and FAC procedures.
bJ    Contracts of less than US$150,000.
c/    TA, Training and Studies would be procured following Bank
guidelines.
d/    Mostly salaries and operating costs of LS. IDA financing necessary
due to Government's extremely difficult financial position.
e/    Drugs, whicb are non-incremental would be purchased by FNEC in small
quantities on the basis of criteria other than price alone. Direct
purchase from the respective manufacturers would therefore be
appropriate.



N I G E R      _7                         *1                         i       . ' A F R I C A
~~.                S                                        AFA ICA~~~~S  DA 
IGI                           ~mC H A 05 N
r-/     /              ~~~~CENTRAL               
,f CAME ROONAFRICAN REPUBUC                                                               /1
CAMEROON7  _
I    Banguif 'N%,
PR.        ~~ZAIRE
u            }           THE                                         UJ UGANDAI. *  79
CONGO                                                 ''2
106-     N'DIamend                                   f /
C  H A  D                               ' _'
CAMEROON  *o.nd a
k                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Batanqf  Doan
;f-v           /Poouo a  S}    %,  Bouool a                                    .j J
'71,~~~~~
ozoum ~ ~     ~     ~    -O    aa;j..""Xun
8~~     ~~~            Ii       PEPL'   RE                 4/ t       X
A~~~1~
- - Ierno \_                                                                  Fs aJf>Ggomer p;
N   <        w~~~~~rni-Al,     OAF - 7                                                o t   
1<                                                         Hmb;oatK  
x S     leo  / PEOPLE'S   REP  
CAMEROON . .j ~OF THE CONGO                                                   t---------
CAMEROON              j                                  eJ 
16 55,/             ,,.2                             20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 1923
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
7                                                .                \.                                             REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
_  ; RAO  \.                               NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJET NATIONAL D'ELEVAGE
ADMINUTRATIVE ORCANIZATION OF LIVESTOCK COMMUNITEE:
'    i,              {        :-                                                                               OGANISAfON ADMIMrSTPATIVI DfS COMMUNES D'ELEVADE
f    .      . . .' /~,,                                                                                     WINNI OF LIVE9TOCK COMMUNItSI
MF.  S Dt'J COMMU ES DEIEVAO?
LIVESItOCK SICTOS
. .-{                         SI!sU  D&fEVAOW
..:..  *  a                                                           *                              L nISTOCK S&I.CrTON
j _;-   ,  |   ;                              EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE
ndo Dl. Ni    _                                                RASTRIJCTRE EXIS?ANTE
A,    VERIAIMYt CENTERS MBILT ON 1s1o100
CRE"0R WftIIWAWFS CONS TURTS OilEFE ROtWiLtN'
*     cal   tePs
0 DF I F  /   oOuomI  {                           5 A oLIVESoIA SIAIION FOR IRPNEIVOLLHANI CAITl I
OOMandlis                             3r~~~~~~SAEDONDfIfVAG( Dt& rWPAN.OtM4N!44AI
*4DELE                                                                                                       VACCINAI1011 CRlihHts
}                      '_  /                   U~~~~~~~~~~~ COU01115 Of VACCIANA
,    ANIC DRUG DLPOTS
-     ORP,t PHARMACIES ANLC
PRIDIOSED ACCEtUO"OAD REARILItAIUN |
__COVN Pwl~r '       ivs irs
SUDAN
f\-)_~~ ~~~~~ I(.^>50                                                           NR
aTigo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;MAj                       dna           _       Sea; i oufmssaN^SF
A                            :                                                                   IARSHESI
ri*narm                                          .  D'
A tA
SANGASSOU               o                       MWN RODS
RO-ES PRNDWALES
SECONDARY ROADS
ROM$E SECONMOAIS
A0SN110 ROAM
- A- WS RUTES
RELVES
A 
0SEORI DC0IST  HEA20L5ARERS
CHEF-LOEU DES SECrrE.S REGON,
*  PROVINCIAL i PREPECTURE CAPITALS
CAPn TALES DES PROWNCES /PREFECTUREn
--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LAU WVIES NENATICOFSAS
5   1 00           150          200         250         300
KILOME T E RS                                                            DlM mw mu  homv b...ipw     by Fl,. hlA* Iw A R."    W S...*,9   o.U..~
NW uadetu and a eechjm.uy r kwe NMWn ad~a. of hw *Me Awm*& ad NIhe kdmb.tnton
*emm  Capwam  Tme downwo mm ven d old fhe borw s srt   v VW wsm  do mg
5          100~to              ISO                 200                      anf, 0. MNW - mit of he Vold &v* am. mm. HMedInor '..o.. Cvtllerw' &v 1udQfl.
anm Em &eel sftem of e.g e.tom day  awy fhm...emt-e-,In.   f -S~ hvde-
MILES
20r                                                                                     21-
OCTOBER 1985



