DOCM       ,O       CREDIT NUMBER 1681 CA
Project Agreement
(National Livestock Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CENTRAL
AFRICAN LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1681 CA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 P  ?         , 1986 between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CENTRAL AFRICAN LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
(FNEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Central African Republic (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borryer an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that FNEC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FNEC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Developmeat Credit Agreement will be made
available to FNEC on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS FNEC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FNEC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the


﻿-2-
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, veterinary and livestock
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
by FNEC required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. FNEC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. FNEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, FNEC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) FNEC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Borrower and the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) FNEC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by FNEC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
(c) FNEC shall, not later than December 31, 1989 or such
later date as shall be acceptable to the Association, carry out a
review, together with the Association, of FNEC's performance
under Part A.3 and 4 of the Project and the impact thereof.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. In order to assist FNEC in carrying out Part A
of the Project, FNEC shall employ a pastoral organization
specialist.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) FNEC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) FNEC shall:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, FNEC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;


﻿(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of FNEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
FNEC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For FNEC:
National Federation of Central African
Livestock Producers (FNEC)
B.P. 588
Bangui, Central African Republic
Telex:
5212 SE
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of FNEC, may be taken or executed by the
president of FNEC or such other person or persons as the
president of FNEC shall designate in writing, and FNEC shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-6-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEUEOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Bangui, Central African
Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /<       74 a hi
Acting Vice Presidat
Western Africa
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CENTRAL
AFRICAN LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS
By u/ Al       H      d  RJpresejt4ti
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
I98   C
FOR SECRETARY


