Report No. PID10834
Project Name             Argentina-Social Protection VI (@)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Social Assistance
Project ID               ARPE73578
Borrower(s)              ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF LABOR, EMPLOYMENT,
AND FORMATION OF HUMAN RESOUR
Address: Avda. L.N. Alem 638 Piso 10
Contact Person: Claudia Berra
Tel: 54-114-310-5674
Fax: 54-114-310-5592
Email: Cberra@trabajo.gov.ar
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 9, 2001
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 11, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 21, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Argentina is in its fourth year of recession and is facing serious
financial and fiscal difficulties. As a result, the rates of both
unemployment and poverty have increased. The political changes since
December 2001, the financial restrictions and the subsequent devaluation
have led to a sharp decrease in economic activity, worsening the already
serious situation. In this context, it is imperative to have effective
safety nets in place. Suport to the poor unemployed is a key part of the
safety net in Argentina. The strategy is to build on successes of
existing programs, improve on those aspects that have not worked as
effectively, seeking simple, transparent and efficient mechanisms to reach
the poor and to better coordinatee various interventions. The Government's
program includes an intense effort to strengthen fiscal performance,
including a reform of social programs to smplify and consolidate them. In
the future, particular attention would be paid to: (i) reducing
duplication and administrative costs; (ii) improving targeting where
needed and increasing coverage; and (iii) putting in place a registry of
beneficiaries which can both help to target programs and reduce
fraud.Poverty alleviation. Progress on the economic front in Argentina
produced real gains in terms of reducing poverty and improving welfare in
the first half of the 1990s.   Poverty rates fell from 40t in 1990 to a low
of 22t in 1994. However, since 1995 poverty rates have increased as a
percentage of the population, and income distribution has deteriorated.
The worsening of income distribution reflects the fact that the gains from
earlier economic growth have gone largely to the more skilled and educated
in the labor force, and not to the poor. In addition, unemployment has
risen, and unemployment rates are higher among the poor, than for the
general population. Many poor are underemployed or in temporary jobs or
work intermittently in construction activities. The lack of full time and
secure employment is seen by the poor as one of their most critical



needs. Future anti-poverty efforts need to focus on three broad areas:n
First, reforms and policies that will lead to a pattern of more rapid
growth and feature a high level of employment per unit of output;f Second,
improving the access of the poor to basic services, that will raise their
overall welfare and, by improving their human capital, increase
productivity and their ability to compete in an increasingly globalized
economy;f Third, reduce the vulnerability of the poor to shocks and losses
in income, chiefly by improvements in safety nets to both protect the poor
during economic downturns, and keep them from making short term
adjustments that will have negative impacts on their long term ability to
reduce their poverty.Social Spending. Argentina has one of the highest
levels of per capita public social spending in Latin America, providing
more than countries such as Chile, Costa Rica and Uruguay. Social
spending has risen in importance over time, from about 15 percent of GDP
in the early 1980s, to about 18 percent today, taking over the fiscal
space created by privatization. There are three main components: social
insurance (57%), universal social sector programs, mainly education and
health (36%), and programs specifically targeted to the poor (7%). While
the share of total spending targeted to the poor is relatively small, the
poor benefit in varying degrees from all social programs.    The lowest 20%
of the income distribution receive 22 percent of total social
spending.Argentina has numerous social assistance programs: food,
nutrition, health, employment, training, education, shelter, clothing,
income subsidies, and other emergency programs, plus those aimed at
strengthening communities. This assistance appears to be strongly
pro-poor: 65 percent of benefits go to the poor and 47 percent goes to
the poorest 20%.   In some cases, results have been impressive:   an
evaluation of the Trabajar program, supported by the Bank, estimated that
80% of benefits went to people in the bottom 20% of the income
distribution, and 40 percent of the benefits reached the lowest 5 %. The
issues are mainly low coverage and the pro-cyclical bias in social
spending - problems that have recently affected the Trabajar Program as
well. About 75 percent of the poor do not receive any public assistance
and over half got neither public nor private help. Government spending is
pro-cyclical and rises and falls with GDP changes. This situation is even
worse for the social sectors and, whereas targeted programs should be part
of a social safety net that expands during a crisis, they fluctuate even
more than total social spending: a 5 percent drop in GDP is associated
with a 99 drop in targeted social sector spending.
2. Objectives
The project would support the fourth phase of Trabajar, a social safety
net self-targeted to poor households. Through the execution of small
infrastructure facilities and productive projects (on a pilot basis), the
program would contribute to improvements in the living standards of the
communities where the sub-projects are located and provide temporary
employment for poor workers. The project builds on the experience of the
Social Protection I-III Projects: The Social Protection I Project
safeguarded critical social programs, including the first phase of
Trabajar, a national public works program (implemented at the provincial
level), during the 1995-96 tequila crisis. The Social Protection II-III
Projects financed the continuation of the Trabajar program during
1997-2001. This series of projects shared the objective of supporting
improvements in the Trabajar program, particularly in the areas of
targeting, transparency of implementation procedures, the quality of
- 2 -



sub-projects, and evaluation - which have wide applicability to other
social programs in Argentina. The Social Protection II Project (Loan
41950-AR) closed as scheduled on June 30, 1999 and received a satisfactory
rating in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and from OED. The
Social Protection III Project (Loan 43660-AR) will close shortly.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has experience in implementing public-works programs and has the
knowledge to apply to improve their effectiveness and targeting. Also,
the Bank has been able to draw on the experience and lessons
(appropriately modified) of social funds. More broadly, the Bank engages
in a program of sector work and dialogue with the Government on employment
creation and labor issues as well as reforms to social spending.      During
project implementation, the Bank has the experience in targeting analysis
and evaluation to assist the public authorities in monitoring the
implementation and impact of these programs. Under the 2 previous
projects, the evaluations of the program were jointly undertaken by the
Bank and the Government. The Bank would continue to provide support on
evaluation under this project, particularly in the area of trying to
determine the impact of the projects in the communities. The Bank has been
working with the authorities on issues related to governance and
transparency and would bring that experience to bear in this project with
the objective of improving the fairness and transparency of the selection
of beneficiaries.
4. Description
1. Sub-projects. These will be small projects (less than $75,000 in most
localities; less than $200,000 in large metropolitan areas) of economic
and social infrastructure, for productive activities (the latter only in
poor rural areas), sponsored mainly by either municipalities or
non-governmental organizations.2. Project Administration. This would
include the costs to the national government of administering the project,
including financial charges for processing payments to beneficiaries,
providing technical assistance, supervising program implementation at the
local level, monitoring implementation and carrying out evaluations.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 535
IBRD 350
Total Project Cost 885
6. Implementation
The Trabajar Program will be managed by the Ministry of Labor, Employment
and Formation of Human Resources, through its staff at the national,
regional and provincial levels. The Ministry will provide the sub-project
menu, criteria and other instructions for sub-project preparation,
evaluation, approval, and supervision. It will also distribute the
resources available in the Trabajar program to each province (and partido
in the case of the Conurbano of Buenos Aires) according to the
distribution of households in extreme poverty and with at least one member
of the household unemployed. Municipalities, provinces, national agencies
or organizations of civil society will be eligible to propose projects for
financing by the Trabajar Program. All sub-projects will be evaluated by
professionals (mainly engineers or architects) contracted by the
-3 -



provincial offices of the MTEyFMH according to a methodology which is
specified in the operational manual and incorporates economic, technical,
financial, institutional, environmental, and social aspects. A data base
on prices of materials as well as unit costs has been built up from
previously approved projects and will be used as a basis for determining
whether a sub-project is viable or not. For about 30 percent of
sub-projects, evaluation would include a site visit. Sub-projects will be
labor-intensive and relatively small. The average project size is
expected to be less than $75,000 and most projects would employ an average
of 20 workers.    For large urban areas (some parts of the conurbano as
well as the city of Rosario) somewhat larger projects will be eligible in
order to fit better into existing municipal development plans. The types
of sub-projects eligible will include rehabilitation, expansion, and new
construction covering: potable water, sewerage, latrines, housing, roads,
urban works, irrigation, schools, health centers, other community social
infrastructure, and some community services. In addition, the program
would finance on a pilot basis small projects for productive activities
for groups of beneficiaries in the poorest rural areas of the country.The
sub-projects which receive a positive evaluation will be considered at
bi-monthly meetings by committees constituted at the regional level, which
include Provincial Managers of Employment and Training (MTEyFMH
employees), the Regional Manager of MTEyFMH, a representative from the
national office of the MTEyFMH, and members of civil society as observers
(currently mostly provincial, business and union representatives).
Sub-projects will be ranked by a point system according to several
criteria, the most important of which is the poverty level of the area in
which the sub-project is located. Sub-projects will be approved up to the
limit set by available funds. Payments to workers will be made by checks
generally through the banking system (in some isolated areas the post
office will be used) processed by the National Social Security
Administration. Sub-projects would be supervised at least two times
during implementation.Most projects will receive financing only for the
labor cost of sub-projects from the Trabajar program. However, for the
poorest municipalities in the country, the Trabajar program will provide a
share of the cost of materials of sub-projects. Sub-projects which meet
the following criteria would be eligible for financing of up to 80 W of
the cost of materials: (1) located in one of the 300 municipalities in
which the share of the population with unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) is
over 40 percent; (2) fall into the categories of potable water, social
infrastructure (including education, health and sanitary facilities for
those and other community infrastructure) or productive activities; and
cost no more than $35,000. The maximum that would be financed in
materials would be $20,000 per project. The infrastructure sub-projects
would follow standard designs. An agreement signed between the Minister
and the municipality would specify the procurement procedures to be
followed for materials purchases and documentation would be retained at
the municipality for review during sub-project supervision. Since the
goods to be purchased would be standard, common construction materials,
during evaluation they would also be compared against the unit cost data
base. Reimbursements would be made in phases: 40 percent to be paid 10
days after construction has begun, and 30t in each of the following two
months thereafter in an account the municipality has in the Banco de la
Nacion. It is estimated that materials could be financed for up to 1000
sub-projects, about 20 W of the total number of sub-projects expected to
be financed under the proposed loan. Selection of Beneficiaries.
- 4 -



Rigorous evaluations (1997 and 1999-2000) show clearly that the Trabajar
program is targeted well to the poorest groups. Nevertheless, due in
large measure to the fact that spending on the program has rarely been
sufficient to provide temporary jobs to all who would be willing to work
in the Program, there have been instances of clientilism in the selection
of beneficiaries. This project will support the imiplementation of
mechanisms to improve both the fairness and the transparency of
beneficiary selection with the goal of reducing these practices.
7. Sustainability
The future scale and operation of the Trabajar program would depend on the
level of unemployment and other economic conditions. Argentina is now in
its fourth year of recession and the unemployment rate has risen. Given
its demonstrated success in targeting poor workers and in financing small
infrastructure projects, Trabajar (or similar programs) could reasonably
be expected to remain a part of the social safety net in Argentina, to be
used flexibly for some population groups depending on economic and social
conditions. As long as the wage rate continues to be set at the
appropriate level, demand for the program would diminish gradually when
economic conditions improve. Even after considering the recent cuts in
Government expenditures, the current level of funding accounts for a small
fraction of GDP and aggregate spending at the national and provincial
levels. Thus the Trabajar Program is still considered to be affordable
under a scenario of continued fiscal discipline and control.The
sustainability of the sub-projects financed under Trabajar is expected to
be high given the high share of financing by local governments. In
addition, the evaluation methodology (including more attention to design
standards and operations and maintenance), the promotion of criteria of
relevance of the project for the community, and close supervision will
contribute to sustainability of the sub-projects. In the area of cost
recovery, the evaluation methodology will include a stipulation that the
local practices for a particular types of sub-projects (for example, basic
sanitation, street paving, etc.) would be applied for any project financed
by Trabajar. An ex-post evaluation (including a survey of the "indirect"
beneficiaries of selected projects) of a sample of 110 subprojects was
carried out during project preparation. The main conclusions were than in
regards to targeting to poor localities, 75 percent of the subprojects
visited reflected adequate targeting, 20 percent had fair targeting and 5
percent either had deficient targeting or insufficient information. The
evaluation of the quality of the works and their current status was high
for 70 percent of the subprojects, 145 were classified as medium, 5
percent were judged deficient and for 10 percent there was not sufficient
information to make a judgement. The conclusion was that about 80 percent
of the localities visited had optimized the use of the resources.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned and reflected in the project design relate mainly to
the design of public works schemes, the operational procedures of social
funds, and the financing of productive activities. The most important
general conclusions which can be drawn from these experiences are as
follows.Public Works. One, the level of the wage rate is critical in
determining the distribution of benefits from the program, as well as how
well it is targeted toward the poor. Maintaining the wage at the level of
the ruling market wage for unskilled labor is the best way to improve the
transfer of benefits to the poor.    An analysis of the wage rate under the
- 5 -



Trabajar program has been undertaken during project preparationton ensure
good targeting performance.    Two, public works programs can be designed
to encourage the participation of women, lower transactions costs for the
poor as well as the potential cost of foregone income, and the involvement
of non-governmental organizations and grass roots participation to prevent
abuse. Three, it is important that the program be designed to strengthen
the secondary benefits from the assets created. Effective monitoring and
supervision of projects is important to ensure the quality of works.
Four, whether or not the created assets confer long-term benefits on the
poor is also an important issue.The design of the Social Protection VI
Project incorporates these lessons. First, the wage rate is equivalent
to the expected wage rate for households in the bottom decile of income
distribution, in order to maximize the transfer of benefits to the poor.
Second, Trabajar includes features to promote the participation of women
and lower the foregone income of the poor and encourages the participation
of organizations of civil society and communities. Three, in order to
ensure adequate benefits from the assets created by the sub-projects, the
Program will ensure adequate evaluation, supervision and monitoring
procedures. Four, the program will favor poorer areas in several ways
including through the formula to distribute resources, the availability of
financing for materials in the poorest areas of the country, and close
monitoring of the performance of the program in reaching poorer areas.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The TRABAJAR program will improve upon its current
environmental evaluation system by creating separate environmental
checklists for each type of subproject that the program will finance.
Each checklist will have sections for the various stages of the project
cycle: preparation, evaluation, and supervision. These documents will be
reviewed by the Bank prior to project appraisal.The Bank preparation and
appraisal missions will evaluate the TRABAJAR program's capacity to carry
out enviromental evaluation. Recommendations will be made, if necessary,
on changing or increasing technical staff to review environmental projects
and environmental aspects of TRABAJAR subprojects. In addition, the
preparation/appraisal missions and TRABAJAR staff will meet with the
Ministry of Environment and other pertinent line ministries to ensure that
TRABAJAR subprojects meet national environmental standards, to understand
the full legal framework for environmental issues in Argentina, and to
establish a relationship between the TRABAJAR program and appropriate line
ministries. Subprojects will be evaluated to ensure that they fall in
line with municipal development plans.     The Bank missions will also
review training and field visits conducted on environmental issues to
determine whether improvements in this area need to be made. Special
attention will be paid to the issue of appropriate site selection for
subprojects.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Theresa Jones
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-6-



Telephone: (202) 473-5309
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 15, 2002.
- 7 -



