Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23710-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR THE
JEFES DE HOGAR (HEADS OF HOUSEHOLD) PROGRAM
PROJECT
Sector Management Unit for Human Development
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
I Peso = US$.30
US$1 = 3.50 Peso
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGN           Auditorfa General de la Nacidn          IDB        Inter-American
(National Audit Agency)                            Development Bank
ANSES         Administracion Nacional de la           NBI        Necesidades Bdsicas
Seguridad Social (National                         Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied
Social Security Administration)                    Basic Needs)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy            NGO        Nongovernmental
Organization
CFAA           Country Financial                      PEL         Programa de Emergencia
Accountability Assessment                          Laboral (Emergency Work
Program)
CONAEYC        National Council for                   PSR        Project Status Report
Administration, Execution &
Control
EPH            Encuesta Permanente de                 UNDP       United Nations
Hogares (Permanent Household                       Development Programme
Survey)
FMR            Financial Management Reports           SIGEN      Sindicatura General de la
Naci6n (General Audit
Agency)
IBRD          International Bank for                  SINTyS     Sistema de Identificaci6n
Reconstruction and                                 Nacional Tributario y
Development (World Bank)                           Social (National System of
Fiscal and Social
Identification)
ICR           Implementation Completion               SOE        Statement of Expenditures
Report
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna Alexander & Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:    Ana-Maria Arriagada & Chris Chamberlin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Theresa Jones



ARGENTINA
JEFES DE HOGAR (HEADS OF HOUSEHOLD) PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     10
3. Benefits and target population                                                    10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       15
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         16
2. Financial                                                                         17
3. Technical                                                                         18
4. Institutional                                                                     18
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   24
2. Critical risks                                                                   25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 27
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                        27
2. Other                                                                           27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                      28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                     28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                      29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                     35
Annex 4: Monitoring Indicators                                                       36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  38
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                39
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                      43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                 46
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                               47
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              48
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                        51
Annex I 1: Letter from Argentina Government to President Wolfensohn                  53
MAP(S)



ARGENTINA
Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHS
Date: October 22, 2002                           Team Leader: Theresa Jones
Sector Manager/Director: Christopher Chamberlin  Sector(s): Other social services (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Axel van Trotsenburg   Theme(s): Social risk coping (P)
Project ID: P073578
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SI)
[X] Loan    [ ]Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $600.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: IZJ Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .0.75 percent                  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 24 months
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): annuity
[   Linked to Disbursement
,  n  g.            SOUrce ri ', LocLal                           reiIn;           Total C
BORROWER                                                   1349.00          38.00       1387.00
IBRD   -                                                    594.00           6.00        600.00
Total:                                                     1943.00          44.00        1987.00
Borrower: ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LABOR, EMPLOYMENT, AND SOCIAL SECURITY
Address: Avda. L.N. Alem 640 Piso 15
Contact Person: Mirta Ward
Tel: 54-114-310-6373/77          Fax: 54-114-310-6371          Email: MWard@trabajo.gov.ar
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual   350.00     200.00     50.00
Cumulative   350.00    550.00     600.00
Project implementation period: 2 years
Expected effectiveness date: 11/27/2002  Expected closing date: 07/30/2004
OCSPADl F.. P



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project would support the workfare part of the Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household)
Program, a social safety net launched 'by the Government of Argentina in April 2002 to alleviate
the impact of rising unemployment due to the sharp worsening of the economic crisis. By May
2002 unemployment had increased to 21.5 percent for the population as a whole and to twice that
level for the poor. The Jefes de Hogar Program provides a stipend of 15Q Argentine pesos/mo to
an unemployed head of a household in exchange for participation in 4 hours of work in
community services, small construction or maintenance activities, or training, including finishing
basic education, or as a temporary employee of a private company. The household must contain
one of the following:
* children under the age of 18;
* handicapped of any age; or
*   a pregnant woman.
The Bank supported a previous workfare program of the Government (Trabajar - Work) in the
second and third Social Protection Projects. Several features of the operation of Jefes de Hogar
are similar to the previous program, but some aspects have been changed in order to respond
better to the current social crisis. For example, implementation is more decentralized;
organizations outside of the government have a greater role in both execution and monitoring, and
the list of eligible workfare activities has been expanded. Through community services, the
construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of small infrastructure facilities, and the execution
of productive projects (on a pilot basis), the workfare component of Jefes de Hogar would
contribute to improvements in the living standards of the communities where the activities are
located and create temporary employment for poor workers. Although the Bank would not
finance all components of Jefes de Hogar, it would monitor implementation of the overall
Program and any other employment program of the Government.
The project builds on the experience of the Social Protection II and mI Projects. The Social
Protection H-I- Projects financed the Trabajar program during 1997-2002. These projects shared
the objective of supporting improvements in the Trabajar program, particularly in the areas of
targeting, transparency of implementation procedures, the quality of sub-projects, and evaluation.
The Social Protection II Project (Loan 41950-AR) closed as scheduled on June 30, 1999 and
received a satisfactory rating on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and from OED.
The Social Protection 111 Project is due to close on December 31, 2002 and has had a satisfactory
rating during implementation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators include the number of beneficiaries who are participating in an
eligible activity, the amount of payments made to workfare participants, the share of subprojects
(for which materials are financed) that have been completed satisfactorily (able to be used),
percentage of beneficiaries with adequate registration information, and the extent of supervision
of both supporting documentation on beneficiaries, as well as workfare activities, and targeting
performance (as related to both income level of beneficiaries and geographical coverage).
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22049-AR Date of latest CAS discussion: July 19, 2001
Social development forms the core of the ongoing Bank program in Argentina. The theme has
taken on even more importance given the recent worsening of the economic crisis, which has
resulted in a rapid, substantial devaluation of the peso, and a variety of actions that have had the
effect of sharply reducing economic activity. As a result, unemployment rates and poverty are
increasing. Specific CAS objectives include: (i) the strengthening of social policy formulation
and coordination of social protection programs, especially during the continued economic
downturn; and (ii) the rebuilding of the institutional basis for improvements in human resource
development to improve social welfare and the productivity of the work force over the medium
term. Because of the need to continue to support poverty alleviation in the context of the
economic crisis and deteriorating social conditions, the Country Assistance Progress Report (June
25, 2001) included additional Bank support to social protection programs in the proposed lending
program. The proposed project supports the CAS theme of enhancing social development,
including strengthening social services and social safety nets.
Poverty levels in Argentina have been rising since 1995. In October 2001 (before the height of
the economic crisis) it was estimated that 40 percent of the urban population were poor. Nearly
15 percent of the population were below the extreme poverty line, meaning that they did not have
sufficient resources to cover a basic food basket. Preliminary evidence now indicates that as of
May 2002 over 50 percent of the urban population fell below the poverty line. Even rural,
agricultural-based communities- which are expected to benefit eventually from the devaluation of
the Argentine peso given increased production - have been affected because of the lack of
liquidity. The rate of unemployment which stood at 18 percent in October 2001 now stands at
21.5 percent. Unemployment rates are twice as high for poor, unskilled workers. When the
economic crisis hit, Argentina did not have an adequate social safety net, leaving many of the
poor uncovered by any program. In a survey carried out in June 2002, nearly all households in
Argentina reported having changed their consumption pattems in response to the economic crisis.
About 90 percent of households in the bottom quintile of income distribution have been forced to
reduce consumption of even food. The economic crisis has had a strong impact on the education
and health systems and there is growing evidence of deterioration in service delivery and key
indicators of well-being. The same survey indicated. that nearly three-quarters of households with
children in school had reduced purchases of school materials, and the share was nearly 90 percent
for families in the lowest income quintile.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Argentina has experienced 4 years of recession and the economy is expected to contract sharply in
2002, by 12-15 percent. The country faces serious financial and fiscal difficulties, and high and
growing levels of unemployment and poverty. As a result, social conditions and stability
deteriorated substantially in late 2001 and early 2002. In this context, it is imperative to have
effective safety nets in place, including support to the poor unemployed. In spite of allocating a
relatively large share of its budget to social spending, Argentina does not have an effective safety
net - one that offers protection from key risks to the principal vulnerable groups. Social
conditions have changed significantly during the 90s. Levels of unemployment and informal
employment are higher and the inequality of income distribution has risen. The lack of an
- 3 -



integrated response to these changed conditions has implied, in many cases, the multiplication of
smaller, often uncoordinated programs attempting to target very specific groups. The significant
participation of provincial (and to some extent municipal) governments intensifies the
opportunities for overlaps, inconsistencies and inefficiencies. While the previous workfare
program, Trabajar, had been very effective in reaching the poor, in recent years funding had
declined and the resulting need for rationing had created opportunities for manipulation by
political interests.
The main response of the Government to the social emergency was to expand financial support to
families in danger of economic deprivation. Through the creation of Jefes de Hogar, the
Government of Argentina launched a large and ambitious safety net program very quickly. The
number of other social-programs has been reduced and resources have been concentrated on this
program. In addition, although the initial implementation of the Jefes de Hogar Program was not
ideal, for the first time the Government of Argentina has addressed the important issue of how
citizens relate to national programs by deciding to give municipalities and local consultative
councils (comprised of public authorities, as well as representatives of civil society) the primary
role, linked imperfectly through a service network. In addition, programs have been expanded to
meet basic needs, particularly for food and medicine. Over the longer run there is recognition of
the need to strengthen the social safety net on a more permanent basis, reduce social risks, and
spur community development. It is the Government's intention to revamp many social programs,
in collaboration with the provinces, which are responsible for about half of social spending in the
country. In the future, particular attention would be paid to: (i) reducing duplication and
administrative costs; (ii) improving targeting where needed and increasing coverage; and (iii)
putting in place a registry of beneficiaries which can both help to target programs and reduce
fraud.
Poverty alleviation. Previous progress on the economic front in Argentina produced real gains in
terms of reducing poverty and improving welfare in the first half of the 1990s. Poverty rates fell
from 40 percent in 1990 to a low of 22 percent in 1994. However, since 1995, poverty rates have
increased as a percentage of the population, and income distribution has become more skewed.
The worsening of income distribution reflects the fact that the gains from earlier economic growth
went largely to the more skilled and educated in the labor force, and not to the poor. In addition,
unemployment has risen, and unemployment rates are higher among the poor than for the general
population. Also, many poor are underemployed, have temporary jobs, or work intermittently in
construction activities. The lack of full time and secure employment is seen by the poor as one of
their most critical needs. Future anti-poverty efforts need to focus on three broad areas:
First, reforms and policies that will lead to a pattern of more rapid growth and feature a
high level of employment per unit of output;
Second, improving the access of the poor to basic services, which will raise their overall
welfare and, by improving their human capital, increase productivity and their ability to
compete in an increasingly globalized economy; and
Third, reducing the vulnerability of the poor to shocks and losses in income, chiefly by
improvements in safety nets, to both protect the poor during economic downturns, and to
keep them from making short term adjustments that will have negative impacts on their
long term ability to escape poverty.
Social Protection. Argentina traditionally has operated numerous social assistance programs:
food, nutrition, health, employment, training, education, shelter, clothing, income subsidies, and
other emergency programs, plus those aimed at strengthening communities. This assistance
-4 -



appears to be strongly pro-poor: 65 percent of benefits go to the poor and 47 percent goes to the
poorest 20% of the population. In the case of Trabajar, targeting was even better. An evaluation
of the Trabajar program, supported by the Bank, found that 80 percent of benefits went to people
in the bottom 20% of the income distribution, and over half of the benefits reached the lowest
10% (after factoring in foregone incomes). The issues with social assistance programs in the past
have been mainly low coverage and the pro-cyclical bias in social spending. About 75 percent of
the poor did not receive any public assistance and over half received neither public nor private
help. Government spending was pro-cyclical, rising and falling with GDP changes. This
situation has been even worse for the social sectors. Although targeted programs should be part
of a social safety net that expands during a crisis, up until now they have fluctuated even more
than total social spending: a 5 percent drop in GDP was associated with a 9 percent drop in social
sector spending targeted to the poor. The Jefes de Hogar Program addresses some of these
weaknesses by expanding coverage and increasing spending on the social safety net. Analytical
work of the Bank has identified the key vulnerable groups in Argentina as: poor children, the
elderly without pension coverage, and the poor unemployed. The Jefes de Hogar Program targets
the first and third key vulnerable groups - the poor unemployed with dependents under the age of
18.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The assistance of the Bank to the Jefes de Hogar Program is a continuation of earlier efforts to help
mnitigate the increase in poverty caused by mounting unemployment and to improve the efficiency of
social spending in Argentina. As the economic crisis in Argentina has deepened in recent months, this
role has become even more critical. The increased pressure on all social programs, coupled with the
social unrest in the country, makes it critical to support measures to increase the fairness of the selection
of beneficiaries, ensure transparent management, and ensure that spending reaches the most needy.
There is widespread recognition that the Jefes de Hogar Program is a response to the sharp deterioration
in the economy and high levels of unemployment. It cannot substitute for longer term efforts to stimulate
higher employment creation that require a resumption of economic growth, implementation of labor
market reform and improvement in the quality and relevance of Argentina's education system.
In this context, the particular issues being addressed by the operation are as follows:
Objective Eligibility Criteria
The project supports the effort of the Government to make the selection of beneficiaries for social
programs fair. While rigorous impact evaluations (1997 and 1999/2000) showed excellent targeting
performance by the Trabajar program in reaching the very poor, there were accusations that clientilism
was sometimes used to allocate the chances to work since there were not enough resources to include all
applicants. In the Jefes de Hogar Program, the Government will provide financial support to any head of
household who meets the eligibility criteria and fulfills the requirement to participate in eligible activities
for 4 hours a day, approved by the municipal council where the beneficiary resides.
Registration Process
In Jefes de Hogar, municipalities register beneficiaries who meet the eligibility criteria, using a standard
form that has been developed jointly with the Ministry of Social Development (Fornulario Unico) and
includes information on household and individual characteristics. Registration information is sent to the
Ministry of Labor (using either on-line or off-line applications) where the data is consolidated. Because
of its disorderly start, the registration process has experienced problems. Some beneficiaries entered the
program even though they were not registered in their municipality, the software developed was not
-5 -



robust, and not all basic information on beneficiaries was entered into the database. During the last seven
months the Bank has worked with the Government on improvements and substantial progress has been
made.
Payment Process
Before making payments to beneficiaries, the National Social Security Agency cross-checks the
information provided with other databases in order to ensure that beneficiaries are not participating in
another employment program of the Ministry of Labor, receiving unemployment insurance, or have a
formal sector job. During project implementation the cross-checks of other databases would be expanded
gradually to include all current and retired provincial and municipal employees, all local employment
programs or any other program which includes cash transfers to households (most non-contributory
pensions, for example). Some progress in this area has already been made, including in the larger
provinces such as Buenos Aires and C6rdoba. Under the previous Trabajar Program, some, but not all,
provinces provided this data. In addition, the Ministry of Labor and the National Social Security Agency
are exploring the possibility of carrying out additional data checks which could be used to strengthen the
Program's ability to enforce a limit on participation to one member per household. These include making
mandatory the provision of identity numbers for all household members, carrying out cross-checks with
databases related to the education system and with health insurance beneficiaries. Progress in this area
would be monitored during project implementation. In the meantime, the agency implementing the
Social and Fiscal National Identification System (SlNTyS) is assisting to check the database of
beneficiaries.
Transparency and Social Control
The Bank has worked with the Government in several areas to ensure the transparency of the Jefes de
Hogar program. One of the key mechanisms intended to improve transparency and social control of the
Program at the local level are the municipal consultative councils. The Presidential Decree that
established the Jefes de Hogar Program required the establishment of municipal consultative councils,
comprising the mayor, as well as representatives of other groups (public service providers, workers,
businesses, churches, and civil society organizations). In large urban areas, councils covering a smaller
area may also be organized. The role of the councils is to approve the proposals for workfare activities
(both infrastructure and community services) proposed by municipalities, other public organizations, and
civil society, and to be a channel for providing information and resolving complaints on beneficiary
registration. Local councils are also responsible for taking appropriate action when there is evidence that
a beneficiary does not meet the eligibility criteria. The Directorate of the Federal Employment System
within the Ministry of Labor is monitoring the formation and operation of the councils and providing
technical assistance. In many areas, the councils are relatively new, but in other localities, existing
organizations formed earlier to address the social crisis, have become municipal councils. A national
council plays a similar role for the Program as a whole (discussed in Section 4 under Project Description
Summary).
There are some preliminary encouraging signs on the role of the local councils. As of October,
consultative councils had been established in slightly over 80% of localities. On average, there are 10
members in a council and participants representing private organizations (mainly nongovernmental and
religious groups) account for slightly over half of the total members. In many localities, municipal
councils supervise workfare activities. The work of the local councils will continue to be monitored. In
addition, the terms of reference for an external evaluation of the performance of the local consultative
councils has been approved and the study is expected to start shortly. Financing is being provided under
the Social Protection IV Project.
-6 -



The Bank is also promoting the publication of sufficient information on the Program. Information on the
beneficiaries participating in the Program will be publicized. The Program will require that lists of those
registered for the Program be made available in public places at the local level or through the internet.
The City Government of Buenos Aires, for example, has made the list of beneficiaries available on its
web site (www.buenosaires.gov.ar), and this practice would be promoted by the Ministry wherever
possible, but particularly in large urban areas where the challenge of social control is greatest. The
characteristics of the beneficiaries of the program will be monitored by consolidating the information in
the registration forms. Summary information on the Program will also be made available on the Ministry
of Labor's web site (www.trabaio.gov.ar), including data on the agreed project indicators (Annex 4).
Other measures are also in place. An 800 number available 24 hours a day to handle questions and
complaints has been operating since the start of the Jefes de Hogar Program. The Government has
widely publicized the program. The Bank worked with the Ministry to establish a system of supervision
of municipalities that would carry out random checks of the supporting information that municipalities
are required to keep for each beneficiary. These checks would be done by staff in the provincial offices
of the Ministry of Labor. There is a system of sanctions to be applied in cases of noncompliance with the
requirements of the program. SINTyS (the agency in charge of the social and fiscal national
identification system) has already undertaken an analysis and cross-checks of the list of beneficiaries
paid under the Program in July and discovered no major problems, and would undertake a more complete
cross-check using the data on participants in the Program before the end of November 2002 and provide
the results and recommendations to the Ministry of Labor.
In adlition to regular audits of the project undertaken by the audit agency (AGN) reporting to the
legislature, the audit agency (SIGEN) reporting to the executive has a work plan for audits of the
Program. Already audits have been carried out in about half of the provinces, in addition to an
evaluation of the local councils, and the information system and internal controls for the database on
beneficiaries. Additional local audits are planned as well as a follow-up analysis on the information
system. The results of all audits have been posted on the SIGEN web site (www.sigen.gov.ar). A
continuous audit of beneficiary payments is being put into place to be carried out by AGN.
The Directorate for Studies and the Formulation of Employment Policies has initiated field work for a
survey of beneficiaries in order to collect independent information on family characteristics, as well as
compliance with the work or training requirement of the Program. Preliminary results should be available
early in 2003. Finally, the Bank, in cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank and the
United Nations Development Program, is funding social monitoring by nongovernmental organizations of
all social programs, including Jefes de Hogar, financed by these institutions. The results of that work
would be published on the World Bank's web site in Argentina (www.bancomundial.org.ar).
-7 -



Targeting
Bank international experience on workfare is that targeting to the poor depends on setting an appropriate
wage rate and enforcing the work requirement. Building on the tools developed in the Trabajar Program,
this project will continue to promote targeting to the poor and support mechanisms to monitor and
evaluate the poverty alleviation impact of the Jefes de Hogar Program. The targeting mechanism
remains the low wage rate (Arg. pesos 150/mo, currently equivalent to about US$40), which is expected
to be attractive only to those who are poor and with few prospects for employment, as long as the work or
training requirement is enforced (see Summary Project Economic Analysis for more detail). Given the
current economic uncertainties in Argentina, the maximum wage rate for the Jefes de Hogar Program
will be reviewed periodically with the Government according to an agreed methodology. The Bank also
has worked with the Government over the last 7 months to strengthen the link between the cash transfer
and the work or training requirement. Initially, the work requirement was not enforced systematically
and because no data was collected it was not possible to monitor performance at the local level. That
situation has changed. First, municipalities would provide the names (and national identification
numbers) of the beneficiaries participating in each training or work activity to the Ministry of Labor, via
the provincial employment offices, or on-line directly to the Ministry. Second, the information system
used for payments to beneficiaries would link each beneficiary to a specific activity, as was the case for
the Trabajar Program. The Bank would finance only beneficiaries who are participating in a workfare
activity, in accordance with the agreed operational manual. Third, a system of supervision of the
fulfillment of the requirement to participate in an eligible activity for the entire program, not only the
components financed by the Bank, has been designed with specific roles for the municipal councils and
the provincial, as well as national, offices of the Ministry of Labor.
Poorer areas will also be favored in the Program. They would be eligible to receive a higher share of
financing to cover the cost of materials for subprojects, which would help to address obstacles caused by
a lack of counterpart funding - expected to be even more of a constraint given the current fiscal
difficulties of the Government.
Efficiency of Social Programs
The proposed new project will continue to support the efforts of the Government to improve the
efficiency of social programs. These include implementation of reforms to subproject evaluation and
supervision and rigorous evaluation of the impact of social assistance programs. Under the Social
Protection m Project several important evaluations were carried out with the support of the Bank. These
included a follow-up of Trabajar beneficiaries after they left the program, as well as an evaluation of a
program that provided wage subsidies for private employment. Evaluation efforts in the proposed project
will focus on evaluating the performance of Jefes de Hogar in targeting poor households, on poor-area
targeting, the quality of sub-projects, and the impact of the sub-projects in the communities. The Bank
loan is financing the inclusion of a module related to Jefes de Hogar in the October 2002 round of the
biannual Permanent Household Survey carried out by the National Statistical Institute, through an
agreement between the Ministry of Labor and the Institute. Data will be available early in 2003 that
would provide the information necessary to evaluate the net impact of the Program, as well as its
performance in reaching the poor. The evaluation would be carried out jointly by staff of the Bank and
the Ministry of Labor, as has been the case for previous evaluations. In addition, the Country
Department is supporting household survey work which would be used to monitor the impact of the
current crisis on the poor, including the-role of the Government's safety net programs, such as the Jefes
de Hogar Program.
-8 -



Other Employment Programs
In addition to Jefes de Hogar, the Ministry of Labor is operating another employment program (
Programa de Emergencia Laboral - PEL) that is being used to respond to conflictive local situations and
to provide for the unemployed who do not meet the eligibility criteria of the Jefes de Hogar Program.
Currently the program covers about 300,000 beneficiaries. The program is managed centrally by the
Ministry of Labor and the beneficiaries receive the same monthly payment as in the Jefes de Hogar
Program and are required to fulfill a work requirement. The Bank will monitor the implementation of
this program, including overall spending, geographical distribution of beneficiaries, and work
requirement, and promote the use of the same instruments for supervision and transparency for this
program as for the Jefes de Hogar Program.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Subprojects. These will be small projects of community services; construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of economic and social infrastructure (less than $75,000 in most localities; less than
$200,000 in large metropolitan areas); as well as in the poorest, rural areas, small projects for productive
activities, all sponsored mainly by either municipalities or nongovernmental organizations. Given the
economic and social crisis and the pressure to find workfare activities for a large group of registered
beneficiaries, community services would predominate. As materials financing is provided through the
project, the number of infrastructure projects is expected to rise.
2. Project Administration. This would include the costs to the national government of administering the
project, including financial charges for processing payments to beneficiaries, providing technical
assistance, preparing progress reports, including the agreed indicators, computers and operational
expenses such as travel and per diems
3. Supervision. This includes the cost of supervising the implementation of the Program at the municipal
level. Municipalities would be supervised periodically to ensure that they have the supporting
documentation for each beneficiary that establishes their eligibility for the Program. In addition, the
activities in which beneficiaries are participating would be supervised, at least tWice for subprojects that
receive materials financing, and on a sample basis for other activities. Supervision would be undertaken
by provincial staff of the Ministry of Labor, supplemented by visits from the national level. Both
municipal and provincial councils would also play a role in supervising the Program at the local level.
3. Monitoring and Evaluation. This would include evaluations of the targeting performance of the Jefes
de Hogar Program and the impact of the subprojects financed in the community, beneficiary assessments.
and monitoring of Program implementation according to the agreed indicators. The main evaluation
study will be based on data gathered in the October 2002 round of the Permanent National Household
Survey carried out by the National Statistics Institute. A special module on the Jefes de Hogar Program
has been added to the survey questionnaire, in order to gather information on the characteristics of
beneficiaries and compliance with the work requirement. The design of the survey will also permit a
comparison with a panel of households interviewed in October 2001. The methodology for the study will
be similar to that done for the Trabajar program (see "Income Gains to the Poor from
Workfare:Estimates for Argentina's Trabajar Program " by Jyotsna Jalan and Martin Ravallion, Policy
Research Working Paper, No. 2149). The survey data will be processed by January 2003 and preliminary
results of the evaluation should be available by March/April 2003.
-9-



'4@i°>  s-c^  tt>-,&- t  ,  ,;  os   <'  . .  -  t5  f^ :  -  t .  .: Bank-  .  . . 
Component                       n>Pe      Wof     finnc    ing Bankc-
. , . I." `.. J 'I  T.'9l  (USSM)  financing
Subprojects                                       1942.00      97.7    578.50      96.4
Project Administration                              25.00       1.3      8.25       1.4
Supervision                                         12.00       0.6      6.00       1.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                            2.00       0.1      1.25       0.2
Total Project Costs  1981.00  99.7    594.00      99.0
Front-end fee   6.00       0.3      6.00       1.0
Total Financing Required  1987.00    100.0    600.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The major institutional reforms supported by the project are: more objective selection criteria for
program participants, supported by a system of supervision and quality control of beneficiary
registration; transparency of program management through a variety of measures including more
involvement by local representatives of civil society, independent audits, and the dissemination of
information on the Program to the public; mechanisms to ensure targeting and benefits to the
poor, especially through the supervision of the participation in work or training activities by the
participants and more controls over that requirement; and improvements in the quality of
subprojects that include financing for materials from the Program. The project would also support
the decentralization of more responsibility for the management of social programs to the
municipal level. The role of municipal councils in the selection and supervision of subprojects
should improve their relevance to local needs and increase social control.
3. Benefits and target population:
Through the community services, small investments, and rehabilitation/maintenance subprojects,
financed under the Jefes de Hogar program, the project would provide temporary financial
assistance to poor unemployed workers with dependents, and would improve social and economic
infrastructure and services in poor communities, thereby raising living standards. The number of
participants in the workfare activities of the Jefes de Hogar Program is estimated at around 1.5
million at its peak and then would slowly decline during the projected 2 years of project
implementation. It is estimated that the Bank would finance about 60 percent of the total number
of workfare participants over the life of the project. The Bank project also would provide partial
financing of materials for between 8-10,000 workfare subprojects.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements
The Ministry of Labor is responsible for the over-all management, coordination and monitoring of the
Jefes de Hogar Program. The Jefes de Hogar Program is managed by a Technical Coordinating
Commission within the Ministry of Labor, which reports to the Minister of Labor and includes the 6
National Directors whose areas have a role in the implementation of the Program. Representatives of the
Social Security Administration and the National Council of Administration, Execution, and Control
(CONAEYC - see following paragraph) are also members. The responsibilities of the Commission are
to: coordinate and ensure the correct implementation of the Program; resolve problems that may arise;
prepare reports related to the administration, control and supervise beneficiaries, projects, activities and
organizations; process data on beneficiaries; ensure the payment of beneficiaries and the accounting of
- 10-



those payments; and prepare monitoring reports, all either as set out in the legal framework for the
program or within the administrative responsibilities assigned to the Ministry.
In order to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program, the Government has created a National
Council for Administration, Execution, and Control (CONAEYC), which is comprised of 3
representatives from each of the following sectors: business, labor unions, civil society organizations,
religious groups, and the National Government. Members were named and the council established in
mid-May 2002. The Council meets weekly. Its role in the Jefes de Hogar Program is wide-ranging,
incorporating functions of monitoring, control, development of new policies, oversight of training
activities, establishment of an external evaluation of the Program, contributing to the dissemination of
information, and reporting periodically to the President on these activities. The Council is assisted by an
Executive Secretariat.
Implementation Arrangements
The Directorate of Employment of the Ministry of Labor consolidates the registration data collected by
the municipalities for each beneficiary who meets the eligibility requirements. The National Social
Security Administration, part of the Ministry of Labor, undertakes the cross-checks with other databases
to ensure that the beneficiaries are not employed in the formal sector, receiving unemployment insurance
or a pension, or substantial cash transfers from other Government programs. The provincial offices of
the Ministry of Labor supervise the registration process in the municipalities by carrying out random
checks of the documentation for each beneficiary, which is required to be presented as proof that they
meet the eligibility criteria (birth certificates for children, the national identification number for the
beneficiary, and the sworn legal statement that the information provided by the beneficiary is correct)
and maintained in municipal files. The National Social Security Administration makes arrangements for
the monthly payments to beneficiaries directly through selected banks. The supporting documentation
proving that the payments have been made to each beneficiary is kept at each bank, and subject to audit
by the national audit agency (AGN). A summary of that information is sent back to the Ministry of
Labor and used to prepare the disbursement requests to the Bank.
Eligible training activities under Jefes de Hogar include two subcomponents: professional training in
institutions certified by the Ministry of Labor and termination of basic education in adult education
classes certified by the Ministry of Education, as well as through existing capacity in primary education.
Work activities include three subcomponents: (a) small projects for construction or rehabilitation of
small economic and social infrastructure for which financing for worker payments and materials is
provided by the Program, generally in municipalities with under 100,000 inhabitants with the share of
financing scaled according to poverty indicators of the locality; (b) activities for all municipalities for
which the Program finances only the payment to workers, which include community services, small
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of economic and social infrastructure, as well as low-cost
housing; and (c) employment in private companies or public or private institutions. For subcomponent
(a), municipalities, either singly or in cooperation with other groups, would propose subprojects. For
component (b) proposals can be made by municipalities, national agencies or organizations of civil
society. For both components (a) and (b), proposals are presented to the municipal council for their
review. The council has the responsibility to authorize acceptable proposals, with the objective of
increasing social control, as well as helping to ensure the relevance of the subprojects to local needs.
The mayor would give final approval to workfare subprojects based on the judgement of the municipal
councils and an outside technical evaluation in the case of subcomponent (a), as explained below. The
proposed Bank loan would be used to finance components (a) and (b) of workfare activities.
All subprojects in subcomponent (a) will be evaluated, after being authorized by the municipal council,
- 11 -



by professionals (mainly engineers or architects contracted by the provincial offices of the Ministry of
Labor) according to a methodology which is specified in an operational manual and incorporates
economic, technical, financial, institutional, environmental, and social aspects. A database on material
prices, as well as unit costs has been built up from previously approved similar subprojects financed
under the Trabajar Program and will be used as a basis for comparison. Subprojects would follow
standard designs. For about 30 percent of subprojects, evaluation would include a site visit. Subprojects
would be labor-intensive and relatively small. The average subproject is expected to cost less than
$75,000 and employ 20-40 workers for about 5 months. If a project receives a positive technical
evaluation and is approved by the Mayor, it can be financed under the Jefes de Hogar Program. For poor
localities, financing can be provided for up to 80 percent of the costs of materials up to a maximum of
about $12,000/project. Poor localities include about 500 municipalities with a population under 50,000
in which the share of the population with unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) is over 30 percent. For other
municipalities with a population of under 50,000 or between 50,000 and 100,000, up to 50 percent of the
cost of materials for eligible subprojects could be financed, again up to a maximum of $12,000/project.
About 1,100 municipalities are included in this group. In addition, the Program would finance materials
and payments to workers on a pilot basis for small projects (less than $20,000) for productive activities
for groups of beneficiaries in poor rural areas. All of the subprojects in component (a) would be
supervised at least two times during implementation.
An agreement signed between the Minister and the municipality would specify the procurement
procedures to be followed for materials purchases and documentation would be retained at the
municipality for review during sub-projec. supervision. Since the goods to be purchased would be
standard, common construction materials, during evaluation they would also be compared against the unit
cost database. Reimbursements would be made in two phases: 60 percent to be paid 10 days after
construction has begun, and 40 percent once the project has been completed, in an account the
municipality has in the Banco de la Nacion. It it estimated that materials could be partially financed for
between 8-10,000 subprojects under the proposed loan.
Subcomponent (b), for which the program would only finance the payments to workers, has streamlined
procedures with more responsibility at the municipal level. There is no outside technical evaluation,
although the basic information on activities and the number of workers involved will be monitored by the
Ministry on the basis of data that municipal councils are required to provide for activities approved by
them. Municipal councils will evaluate proposals considering the experience of the sponsoring agency
and the pertinence of the activity to the needs of the community. For large urban areas (some parts of the
conurbano of Buenos Aires, for example) somewhat larger projects than envisaged under subcomponent
(a) will be eligible in order to promote a better fit with municipal development plans. These subprojects
would be supervised on a sample basis by staff in the provincial offices of the Ministry of Labor,
supplemented by contracted staff as necessary. For all workfare programs, the agencies sponsoring
proposals are responsible for ensuring the availability of the materials needed for the activities,
monitoring the attendance of the workers in a register, and providing any information requested during
supervision visits.
Provincial councils (including representatives of provincial govemments, workers, businesses, religious
organizations and civil society organizations) would be responsible for monitoring the execution of the
Jefes de Hogar Program in their jurisdiction, as well as resolving any conflicts that may arise.
Information on supervision of the workfare subprojects would be provided by the Ministry of Labor to
both the municipal and provincial councils. The Ministry of Labor would also organize regular meetings
with the Provincial Councils in order to monitor the performance of the program in each province and
discuss issues that have arisen during supervision.
- 12 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives considered and rejected included different approaches to workfare programs, poverty
alleviation, employment creation and the relative roles of the private and public sectors.
Free-standing Trabajar Program In the initial preparation of the proposed project, it was envisaged that
the Trabajar program would be maintained with some important modifications. However, the launching
of the Jefes de Hogar Program and the subsequent decisions on its design and operation, particularly
making participation universal for those meeting the eligibility criteria and willing to either work or
participate in training, made this alternative unviable. In addition, by channeling financing through the
Jefes de Hogar Program, the Bank is able to make recommendations on the design and operation of what
is now the major social safety net in Argentina.
Poverty alleviation. An alternative approach would have been to support poverty alleviation through
other mechanisms such as nutritional assistance to children or conditional transfer programs. There are
two reasons for not following these approaches. First, the Bank is supporting other priority social
prograrns and reformns through other projects. Nutritional assistance to children is supported under the
Maternal and Child Health II Project. The Social Protection IV Project has been restructured recently in
order to facilitate financing of community kitchens in poor areas. The Inter-American Development
Bank finances a scholarship program for needy secondary students as well as a conditional transfer
program. Second, the focus on generating temporary employment is justified because of the strong
impact of high unemployment rates on the poor. The link between poverty and unemployment is strong
in Argentina.
PublicdPrivate Mix; Another alternative would have been a social fund managed outside of traditional
government channels and using private contractors. Experience under the Social Protection II and 111
Projects was that the Ministry of Labor managed the Trabajar program effectively, with objective
subproject selection and targeting criteria, and sufficient controls.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.   -  ;  .: : ~ ; ,  ~  ;- , - - - --        Latest.SupervisTon:
Sector Issue    -      -     -- Project                 l sR) Ratings     1
' .___._.__,_______.__._.___ _;__.           - ;  - A    (Bank-fininced project ponly) :
ImplementaIon  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Improving Efficiency of Social Safety Social Protection m (Ln.   S             S
Net                              4366-AR)
Poverty Alleviation/Improving    Social Protection IV (Ln.       S             S
Efficiency of Social             4398-AR)
Programs/Comnnunity Development
Improving Efficiency of Provincial  Provincial Reform-Catamarca  U             S
Social Spending                 (Ln. 4578-AR)
Social Assistance Strategy       Social Protection V (proposed)
Irnproving Efficiency of Provincial  Provincial Reform-Cordoba   U             S
Social Spending                 (Ln. 4585-AR)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 13-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons learned and reflected in the project design relate mainly to the design of public works
schemes, the operational procedures of social funds, and the financing of productive activities. The most
important general conclusions that can be drawn from these experiences are as follows:
Public Works. One, the level of the wage rate is critical in determining the distribution of benefits from
the program, particularly how well it is targeted toward the poor. Maintaining the wage at the level of
the ruling market wage for unskilled labor is the best way to transfer benefits to the poor. Two, public
works programs can be designed to promote the participation of women, lower transaction costs for the
poor, as well as the potential cost of foregone income, and encourage the involvement of
nongovemmental organizations and grass roots participation. Three, it is important that the program be
designed to strengthen the secondary benefits from the assets created. Effective monitoring and
supervision of projects is important to ensure the quality of works. Four, whether or not the created
assets confer long-term benefits to the poor is an important consideration.
The design of the workfare component of the Jefes de Hogar Program incorporates these lessons. First,
the wage rate is equivalent to the expected wage rate for households in the bottom quintile of income
distribution, in order to maximize the transfer of benefits to the poor. An analysis of the wage rate under
the Jefes de Hogar Program has been undertaken for this project to ensure that the excellent targeting
performance of the previous workfare program (Trabajar) is continued. Second, the Jefes de Hogar
Program includes features to promote the participation of women, lower the foregone income of the poor,
and to encourage the participation of organizations of civil society and communities. Third, in order to
ensure adequate benefits from the assets created by the sub-projects, the Jefes de Hogar program is
benefiting from the progress that was made in the Trabajar Program in strengthening evaluation,
supervision and monitoring procedures. Fourth, the program would promote investments in poorer areas
by financing a higher share of materials there and by close monitoring of the performance of the program
in reaching poorer areas.
In late 2001 a sample of 110 subprojects financed under the Social Protection m Project was reviewed.
The study focused on the value of the subproject, its quality and cost, environmental aspects, and
operations and maintenance. The conclusions and recommendations of the report have been discussed
and are taken into account in the Operational Manual for the Jefes de Hogar Program. The complete
report is available in the project files (see Annex 8). The main conclusions are that in regards to
targeting to poor localities, 75 percent of the subprojects visited reflected adequate targeting, 20 percent
had fair targeting and 5 percent either had deficient targeting or insufficient information. Regarding the
operation of the facility, in 70 percent of the cases the facility was in full operation, for about 10 percent
of the cases, operation was partial, and in 16 percent of the cases the facility was not yet functioning.
The evaluation of the quality of the works and their current status was high for 70 percent of the
subprojects, 14 percent were classified as medium, 5 percent were judged deficient and for 10 percent
there was not sufficient information to make a judgement. These results demonstrate a substantial
improvement over the results of a similar review carried out of a sample of subprojects financed under
the Social Protection II Project. In the earlier report, the conclusion was that only about a third of the
localities visited had optimized the use of resources for the subprojects; the share for the recent review is
80 percent. Most of the problems identified in the earlier review - especially in reference to the costing
and dimensioning of subprojects - had been resolved using the technical parameters established by the
project implementation unit and used during the evaluation process for subprojects.
Financing of Productive Activities. On a pilot basis, the proposed project would provide financing for
- 14 -



subprojects supporting productive activities in poor rural areas. The discussions with the Government in
this area have been guided by the lessons from social funds. It is generally preferable to provide
matching grants for these activities instead of getting into the complexities of providing credit.
Nevertheless certain guidelines should be followed. These include:
*   Grant assistance should be targeted to very poor communities or groups that are beyond the current
reach of micro (or other) finance institutions.
*   The activities financed must be cost-effective ways of reducing poverty. This can be demonstrated
by impact and cost-effectiveness indicators.
* The investments should not compete directly with private investment (existing or likely).
*   The beneficiaries should contribute at least partly in cash; the cash contribution should be around
10% and, in any case, no less than 5% of the total project cost. The cash contribution could serve
toward the initial working capital to operate the activity.
*   Grants should be combined with training and support to established savings and credit associations.
The design of this part of the project has also been guided by the implementation experience for this type
of. subproject within the successful series of Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects in the Northeast of Brazil.
Drawing on these lessons, the design of the proposed project would include matching grants, access only
by the poorest rural areas, prior evaluation and ex-post assessment, and links to technical assistance.
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership:
The borrower has demonstrated its commitment to financing temporary employment programs.
Although the need for fiscal restraint slowed down spending for the Trabajar Program under the Social
Protection Im Project, the new Government that took office in January 2002 decided to initiate the Jefes
de Hogar Program as its principal response to the econornic emergency. The Government itself
developed the design for the Jefes de Hogar program, thus there is full ownership. In addition, most
observers credit its implementation with helping to reduce social unrest during the last several months.
An allocation of approximately US$500 million has been made in the budget for 2002, and nearly twice
that much for 2003. A letter from the Ministers of Economy and Labor explaining the Government's
strategy for the Jefes de Hogar Program is in Annex 11.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has experience in supporting public-works programs and has the knowledge to improve their
effectiveness and targeting. Also, the Bank has been able to draw on the experience and lessons
(appropriately modified) of social funds. More broadly, the Bank engages in a program of sector work
and dialogue with the Government on employment creation and labor issues as well as reforms to social
spending. During project implementation, the Bank has the experience in targeting analysis and
evaluation to assist the public authorities in monitoring the impact of these programs. Under the previous
Social Protection projects, program evaluations were jointly undertaken by the Bank and the
Government. The Bank would continue to provide support on evaluation under this project, particularly
in the area of measuring the impact of projects in the communities. The Bank has been working with the
authorities on enhancing good governance and transparency and is bringing that experience to bear in this
project.
- 15 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
There are two ways in which the workfare activities included in Jefes de Hogar might reduce poverty:
the first is by providing paid work for the unemployed from poor households, and the second is by
producing things of value to poor families. Workfare will naturally be more labor intensive than a
program which simply maximizes the present value of the assets created, because the workfare program
attaches positive value to employment of poor people, independently of the gains to society as a whole
from the outputs obtained from that employment. So a workfare program will tend to operate at a point
where there is a trade-off between the value of the assets created and employment.
The cost-effectiveness of the workfare component of Jefes de Hogar - in other words, the proportion of
total public expenditures of the program that is accountable to the net income gain to poor workers - can
be decomposed into the following four variables:
(i) labor intensity: the share of project costs represented by wage costs;
(ii) targeting performance: the proportion of the wages paid out that goes to poor workers;
(iii) net wage gain: share of the gross wage received by the poor after taking into account any
foregone income; and
(iv) indirect benefit: benefits that accrue to the poor when the assets created are in poor areas.
Regarding (i), the average labor intensity of subprojects financed under the Third Social Protection
Project was about 60 percent, but with a range of labor intensity depending on the type of sub-project of
between 30 percent and 80 percent. It is likely that in the workfare activities under the Jefes de Hogar
Program the average labor intensity will be higher than was the case in the past given the impact of the
current economic crisis, fiscal constraints, and the devaluation. In addition, the list of activities eligible
for financing has been expanded to include more labor intensive activities such as maintenance and
community services.
Regarding the targeting performance (ii), results of an evaluation of the previously-financed Trabajar
Program indicated that 80 percent of the participants came from the bottom 20 percent of the income
distribution (after taking into account foregone income), so it is safe to say that 80 percent of the wages
paid out go to poor workers. This same evaluation indicates that the net wage gain (iii) is about 50
percent of the value of the transfer.
The value of the indirect benefits (iv) depends on two factors. One, are poor areas favored in sub-project
selection? The program favors projects in poor areas by financing a higher share of the cost of materials.
The analysis of targeting performance of the previous Trabajar Program indicated that poorer areas
received more relative to better off areas. Two, what is the value of the projects themselves? A series of
ex-post evaluations of subproject quality show an improvement in project quality and rates of return
during implementation of the Trabajar Program - experience that is being applied to the workfare
component of Jefes de Hogar Program. The most recent ex-post evaluation estimated that about 80
percent of localities had used the resources provided by the Trabajar Program in an optimal way. In
addition, in the Jefes de Hogar Program sub-project quality will be promoted through the role of
municipal councils in approving projects, well-defined subproject selection criteria and approval
-16 -



procedures for the projects that will receive funds for materials, co-financing of non-labor costs by local
governments, administrative controls and supervision. The evidence of both of these factors suggests
that the value of the indirect benefits to poor communities is significant and helps tilt the balance in favor
of workfare over alternative transfer-based schemes.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project's financial impact is on the participating community, typically the municipality or community
group, which would take on responsibility for the counterpart requirements and the eventual operation
and maintenance of the investment. In the case of community services projects, many activities are
related to the current economic crisis - community gardens and kitchens, for example - whose financing
requirements should lessen when the economy recovers.
The evaluation methodology for the subprojects for which financing for materials will be provided
includes an analysis of the budget proposed. In addition, for some types of subprojects, the standards
relating to cost recovery and tariffs used in the sector are confirmed for proposals. During periodic
ex-post reviews of samples of completed projects for the Trabajar Program, the implementation of these
practices was confirmed. Similar operating procedures will be used for the Jefes de Hogar Program. In
the most recent review of the Trabajar Program, the actual unit costs of several common types of
subprojects (expansion of schools and health facilities, water supply, and construction of centers for
children) were found to fall within acceptable ranges. For the subprojects for which the Jefes de Hogar
Program will only finance the payments to worker, the overall parameters of the subprojects (physical
goals, number of beneficiaries, time of execution) will be monitored in order to ensure that some
minimum standards are able to be maintained. Supervision of these subprojects will also identify any
problems that may need to be corrected.
Fiscal Impact:
The expected spending for Jefes de Hogar, the Government's main response to the economic crisis, is
projected to represent about 1 percent of GDP in 2003. This is comparable to spending on social
assistance of about the same share of GDP in the U.S. or Spain, but less than the shares in the United
Kingdom or France (34 percent of GDP). Given the context of the social crisis, the Jefes de Hogar
Program is considered to be affordable even under a scenario of fiscal discipline, in part because the
Government has eliminated other programs of social assistance and diverted funding from them to this
Program
The other fiscal impact is the operations and maintenance expenditures for completed sub-projects.
These are small projects (below $75,000) and most frequently are sponsored by municipalities who
finance a portion, in some cases substantial, of the total cost. Moreover, some of these investments are
rehabilitation or expansion of existing facilities. Since the projects are spread throughout the country,
the operations and maintenance obligations are unlikely to be significant for any one municipality. The
ability of the sponsoring organization to ensure the subsequent operations and maintenance of the
sub-project will also be considered during the evaluation of projects which obtain financing for materials.
The ex-post evaluations of samples of subprojects which have been done periodically for the Trabajar
Program indicated that the issues relating to operations and maintenance were being handled adequately.
In the case of the community service projects, many staff are performing functions associated with the
economic crisis, and would not be needed to the same extent in normal circumstances. Some services
- 17-



are also making up for cuts in municipal and provincial services which would also be restored when the
economy recovers.
3. Technical:
All sub-projects for which materials will be financed will be subject to an outside evaluation and only
those projects judged technically viable will be submitted for approval to the mayor. The evaluation
methodology includes technical aspects, focusing on appropriate dimensioning of the project
(particularly vis-a-vis the proposed labor inputs), comparison with a database on unit costs, and a check
for compliance with existing national and local standards, whenever available. The recent ex-post review
of a sample of subprojects financed under Social Protection m shows that this process is functioning
reasonably well. The process would be similar for the Jefes de Hogar Program. The report also
identified some weaknesses, which have been addressed in revisions to the Operational Manual. For
example, in some cases of social infrastructure, adequate provision had not been made for the
complementary inputs necessary for their operation. This was the case in particular for health
infrastructure financed by community organizations or nongovernmental organizations. Also, there was a
case of water networks not yet in operation because the construction of houses had been delayed. In a
few cases, the reason for lack of operation was because the project did not meet a clear demand from the
community. In the proposed new project efforts would be made to reduce the chance of this happening in
the future. The role of the municipal councils in approving projects should help to ensure the relevance
of the project or community service to the needs of the locality. Projects which do not receive materials
financing from the Jefes de Hogar Program will not have a separate technical evaluation. However,
basic technical parameters for these projects (number of beneficiaries, type of project, total cost) will be
monitored by the Ministry of Labor, and they will be supervised on a sample basis to ensure minimum
standards.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Implementation of the Jefes de Hogar Program is decentralized to municipalities and municipal councils.
Supervision will be carried out by the Ministry of Labor staff at both the provincial and national levels.
The staff of the Ministry of Labor at the national and provincial levels has been supplemented during the
previous projects by consultants who were mainly responsible for subproject evaluation and supervision.
This arrangement is expected to continue during implementation of the Jefes de Hogar Program. In the
previous 2 projects, the majority of sub-projects (two-thirds) were executed by municipalities with most
of the remainder accounted for by civil society organizations. This pattern is not expected to change
much under the workfare part of Jefes de Hogar. The performance in finalizing projects on time
improved over the life of the two previous projects. Under the Second Social Protection Project, 72
percent of subprojects were completed on time, and indications are that this number will be exceeded
under the Third Social Protection Project.
4.2 Project management:
The Jefes de Hogar program will be managed by a Technical Coordinating Commission within the
Ministry of Labor. The record of project management by the Ministry of Labor during the Second and
Third Social Protection Projects was good.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment has been carried out for the project. A summary is included in Annex 6 and
the complete report is available in the project files. A large proportion of the loan would not involve
procurement as the Bank would reimburse the Government for remuneration paid to qualified
- 18 -



beneficiaries of the workfare program. This procedure is currently being used for financing provided to
the Government under the on-going Third Social Protection Loan (4366-AR).
Procurement of materials for selected subprojects would be handled using either shopping or direct
contracting. Agreements signed between the Ministry of Labor with the municipality sponsoring the
subproject would specify the procurement procedure to be followed. The procedures are also set out in
the operational manual. The cost of each selected subproject would not exceed $35,000 with a maximum
of $12,000 of materials financed for each project. The infrastructure projects would follow standard,
basic designs and are limited to a few specific types (potable water, social and economic infrastructure,
and sanitary infrastructure). The materials are expected to be mainly off-the-shelf, standard construction
items and the value of the contract for any one item would be relatively small. Wherever possible,
municipalities would use local shopping and documentation would be maintained at the municipality for
review during subproject supervision. In some isolated, rural areas, it may not be practical or feasible to
obtain quotations from more than one supplier. In those cases, direct contracting for purchases of
materials would be permitted for individual contracts below $5,000 up to an aggregate amount of $10
million. The costs of the common construction materials would be compared against the unit cost
database during subproject evaluation. Municipalities would be reimbursed for the cost of materials in
phases upon the receipt of information regarding subproject execution.
Consulting services related to project management would be contracted following the Guidelines for Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and
January 2000), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Most of the contracts are expected
to be for individuals and below $100,000. For these contracts, it is expected that consultants would be
selected according to their qualifications. Single-source selection would be used only in exceptional
cases, and with one exception, only for contracts below $100,000. The project is expected to use the
services of the UNDP to provide administrative support on tasks related to project management. The
cost of this contract is slightly below $200,000. The choice of UNDP by the Government is based on
their prior experience with similar projects.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) is in the process of being submitted to the
Government of Argentina. The report concludes that at the central level, the Government has a fully
integrated budget, accounting, treasury, and public debt financial management system. These systems
adequately control the funds received by the central government from all sources and provide sufficient
information to determine if the funds were utilized as planned. Delays in receipt of audit reports by the
Bank continue to be a persistent problem at the country level - a deficiency observed in the Social
Protection II and III Projects as well. The audit report for 2000 was not submitted by AGN until March
2002 and the audit report for 2001 was submitted in late September 2002. Under the proposed Jefes de
Hogar Program, the Ministry of Labor has agreed with AGN that the latter will carry out a continuous
audit of the beneficiary payment process, an arrangement which should facilitate the timely preparation
of future audit reports.
A financial management assessment report has been completed for the proposed project. Its conclusions
are summarized in Annex 6 and the complete report is available in the project files (see Annex 8). The
Assessment indicates that an adequate financial management system to keep records and report on the
use of funds of the project is in place. Improvements to strengthen this system were discussed with the
project implementation unit during appraisal. These improvements relate to the need to ensure that the
flow of funds of the Project is separate from other programs of the Ministry of Labor and to reduce
delays in the receipt of confirmation of payment to beneficiaries and refunds for payments not effected.
- 19-



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The workfare subprojects to be financed under the proposed Loan are expected to be small (under
$75,000). Most of the environmental impacts should be predictable and subsequently avoided or
mitigated with common practices. Checklists and other environmental tools have been incorporated into
the-evaluation methodology. The description of the methodology, together with forms, etc. is included in
the Operational Manual. Environmental considerations are also incorporated into promotion and
supervision activities.
An environmental assessment was carried out in late 2001. For the assessment a sample of subprojects
that had been financed under the previous workfare program - Trabajar -were visited. Discussions were
held with the individuals involved in the processing and implementation of the subprojects, and
whenever possible, beneficiaries of the projects were interviewed as well. The objective of the
assessment was to determine to what extent the subprojects had an impact on the environment and how
effectively mitigating measures had been applied during subproject execution. In addition, the
assessment reviewed the screening and scoping procedures for potential environmental impacts within
the project cycle of the Trabajar Program; the adequacy of the evaluation process in incorporating
environmental considerations into project design; and the extent to which environmental aspects of the
subprojects had been supervised adequately during implementation. Specifically the following aspects
were reviewed for each subproject: the consistency between actual conditions in the field and supporting
documentation, risks that existed, management of the. activities related to water, soils, contamination
sites, efforts to improve environmental conditions, and the relative importance of environmental aspects.
At the same time, the capacity of the various actors involved in the process - sponsoring agencies,
evaluators and supervisors - was reviewed.
The results of the assessment showed that about half of the subprojects had some impact on the
environment and about half showed no impact. Of those that had an environmental impact, slightly over
60 percent had applied adequate mitigating measures, about a quarter were deficient and about 10 percent
had not applied any mitigating measures. About 20 percent of subprojects had a positive impact on the
environment. In general, the most common impact of the subprojects was the increase in the volume of
residual waters caused by the larger number of users in a facility, especially the projects that increased
capacity of schools, health centers, and community centers. Another issue associated with the increase in
the number of users was related to the adequacy of sanitary facilities. There were some projects that had
not included an expansion and as a result problems ensued. The main recommendation of the assessment
is that project evaluation criteria be modified to ensure that future projects incorporate necessary
increases in water supply and sanitary facilities to deal with the increase in usage of the facility.
In addition to implementing the recommendation described above, the project unit is working to
streamline and improve existing checklists and guides for evaluators and supervisors. Each checklist will
have sections for the various stages of the project cycle: preparation, evaluation, and supervision. For
projects with more significant potential impacts, a mid-execution site visit will be required of
supervisors. The proposed local committees who will be reviewing the lists of beneficiares will also
receive information on potential impacts and required mitigation measures of local projects. Finally, the
Bank will undertake two studies related to environmental issues in the Trabajar program. The first will
involve a more in-depth analysis of the legal context of environmental considerations in Trabajar
subprojects, and the second will be a review of the occurence of environmental impacts and the
- 20 -



implementation of mitigation measures during subproject execution.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Manuals and checklists for project presenters, evaluators, and supervisors will be used to identify
potential impacts and describe appropriate mitigation measures. Supervisors will be responsible for
ensuring mitigation measures are implemented and that any unforeseen impacts are being addressed.
Ex-post evaluations will be undertaken to assess the environmental impact of Trabajar subprojects, in
addition to the legal study and the implementation study described in para. 5.1 above.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 02/20/02
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the environmental assessment, discussions were held with the staff of the previously financed
Trabajar Program, with the sponsoring agencies (mostly municipalities), and for subprojects for which
this was possible, with beneficiaries.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The primary mechanism to monitor and evaluate the impact of the program on the environment is the
supervision mandated for each subproject. In addition, any ex-post evaluation of workfare subprojects
will include environmental indicators. The last ex-post evaluation included a review of the consistency
between actual conditions in the field and supporting documentation, risks that existed, management of
the activities related to water, soils, contamination sites, efforts to improve environmental conditions, and
the relative importance of environmental aspects. At the same time, the capacity of the various actors
involved in the process - sponsoring agencies, evaluators and supervisors - was reviewed.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issues relevant to the project objectives are to ensure that the selection of workers for the
subprojects is fair and transparent and to ensure that the workfare subprojects financed under the Jefes de
Hogar Program respond to local needs. A social assessment was carried out in order to provide guidance
in these areas. Interviews and focus groups were organized in 3 areas: La Matanza (an area of the
conurbano of Buenos Aires), Rosario and 4 municipalities in the province of Tucuman. The full report is
available in the project files. The main recommendations that have been taken into account in the design
of the proposed project relate to 2 major areas: the overall operation of the Jefes de Hogar Program and
beneficiary selection.
Regarding the general operation of the workfare part of the Jefes de Hogar Program, there are 8
recommendations. One, more coordination between government and civil society organizations should
be promoted. Two, there should be greater encouragement to subprojects that are articulated with other
national or local programs. Three, at the local level, groups should be comprised of representatives from
the municipality, other public agencies (education, health, public works, for example), as well as civil
society organizations. These groups should have a role in advising the municipality on the projects
proposed for financing under the program, with a view to helping to ensure that the projects meet high
priority local needs and to strengthen the link between the projects proposed and the local development
plan. Four, the Ministry of Labor should more actively disseminate information about the program.
- 21 -



Five, the Ministry of Labor should increase the amount of technical assistance and training to the groups
wishing to present proposals. Six, organizations of civil society should also have a role in the
supervision and monitoring of the workfare program. Seven, supervision procedures for subprojects
should be tightened in order to ensure that the Program is not viewed as a "subsidy" to workers, but
instead as temporary employment. Eight, more resources should be allocated to finance materials in
poor localities.
In the area of beneficiary selection, there were 3 major recommendations. One, beneficiaries should be
selected from registers of individuals who are interested in participating in the program. These registers
would be maintained by local employment offices. In order to make this requirement meaningful, the
employment offices need to ensure adequate dissemination within the community of the services that
they provide and the registers should be accessible to third parties for review. Two, when projects are
approved, the employment office should present a list of beneficiaries selected from the register on the
basis of objective criteria (including number of dependents, lack of previous participation in the program,
etc.). Three, the operation of the employment office should be overseen by the local group referred to
above in order to ensure that the process is transparent, efficient and is using objective criteria for
selection.
The major design features in the Jefes de Hogar Program that relate to these recommendations are as
follows:
*   In order to ensure adequate quality workfare activities and some additional supervision, the Ministry
is coordinating with other national programs and ministries.
*   Municipal councils authorize subprojects that are being proposed for financing, monitor the
functioning of the registration process for beneficiaries, and serve as a channel for complaints. More
than half of the members of the municipal councils as of October 2002 were from agencies outside of
the Government and the goal of the Ministry of Labor is to increase this share even further.
*   The Ministry of Labor has widely disseminated information on the Jefes de Hogar Program and it is
envisaged that provincial offices of the Ministry will expand their efforts to provide technical
assistance and training, particularly to municipalities.
*   On a pilot basis, organizations of civil society will be contracted to supervise the Jefes de Hogar
Program in some localities (as part of World Bank supported social monitoring of Government social
programs financed by the Bank). This "social auditing" would be in addition to the supervision of
subprojects carried out according to the procedures laid out in the Operational Manual, which would
also be more strictly enforced.
*   Financing has been increased for the purchase of materials in poor localities and also expanded to
other municipalities, but with a lower share.
*   The beneficiary selection process has been changed from the previous system of selection of workers
by the sponsoring agency to the inclusion of all beneficiaries who meet the eligibility criteria and are
willing to meet the work or training requirement. Municipalities register beneficiaries and this
process is overseen by the municipal councils, as well as supervised by the Ministry of Labor.
*   Currently the share of female participants is 60 percent. This is significantly higher than was the
case under the previous Trabajar Program for several possible reasons, including the predominance
of community service projects and the economic crisis, which has resulted in lay-offs of domestic
workers.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders are the poor unemployed, municipalities and nongovernmental organizations.
Municipalities and nongovernmental organizations are expected to participate in the Jefes de Hogar
- 22 -



Program by sponsoring and implementing projects that employ poor workers during their execution.
During the preparation of previous projects as well as during supervision, visits have been made to about
half of the provinces participating in the program (and all of those accounting for a significant share of
resources) to discuss the program with municipal authorities, NGOs, and beneficiaries. Discussions with
municipalities, organizations of civil society and beneficiaries have taken place during preparation of the
social and environmental assessments and as part of the management of the program by the project
coordination unit. Beneficiary assessments of employment programs have been carried out by the
Ministry of Labor.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs are eligible to propose sub-projects for financing. In addition, in the proposed project NGOs will
have a role in oversight of the program. This would occur in two ways. One, as members of the local
groups constituted at the local level, they would advise on the projects proposed by the municipalities
and oversee the operation of beneficiary registration and project implementation. In addition, on a pilot
basis some NGOs would be contracted to supervise and monitor the program in some areas, as part of the
World Bank-supported social monitoring of social programs financed by the Bank.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The main institutional arrangements are the formation of municipal councils to participate in the Jefes de
Hogar Program, the new role of municipalities in the registration of beneficiaries and the elimination of
the need for rationing. In addition, the Jefes de Hogar Program will continue to supervise subprojects
and monitor the performance of the project in reaching poor areas.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
NGO participation in implementing subprojects would continue to be monitored. In addition, the
functioning of the local groups overseeing the Jefes de Hogar Program would be reviewed, probably
using qualitative methods. One study is currently underway, with financing provided under the Social
Protection IV Project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
-    .                    .Poilcy     .      -                      Applicability  -
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes (U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (_) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (_ Yes *No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  9 Yes S No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        (9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                             (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  () Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (9 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental assessment has been carried out and lodged with the Info Shop.
-23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The future scale and operation of the workfare program, expected to be the major component of Jefes de
Hogar, would depend on the level of unemployment and other economic conditions. After 4 years of
recession, Argentina is now suffering an even more severe economic crisis: the unemployment rate has
risen to 21.5 percent in May 2002 with a rate twice that level among the poorest. Given its demonstrated
success in targeting poor workers and in financing small community service and infrastructure projects,
workfare is an appropriate response to the current economic and social crisis in Argentina. It could
reasonably be expected to remain a part of the social safety net in Argentina, to be used flexibly for some
population groups depending on economic and social conditions. As long as-the wage rate continues to
be set at the appropriate level, demand for the program would diminish gradually when economic
conditions improve, as workers have an incentive to leave for better-paying and higher quality jobs. This
has proved to be the case in other countries that have gone through an economnic crisis, such as Chile and,
more recently, Korea. The expected spending for Jefes de Hogar, the Government's main response to the
economic crisis, is projected to represent about I percent of GDP in 2003. This is comparable to
spending on social assistance of about the same share of GDP in the U.S. or Spain, but less-than the
shares in the United Kingdom or France (34 percent of GDP). Given the context of the social crisis, the
Jefes de Hogar Program is considered to be affordable even under a scenario of continued fiscal
discipline and control, in part because the Government has eliminated other programs of social assistance
and diverted funding from them to this Program.
Most of the community services projected to be financed under the workfare program are unlikely to be
sustainable in the future. Many are responding directly to the economic and social crisis - for example,
workers in community gardens and kitchens. Some activities could contribute to improvements in human
capital, for example, the undertaking of health census. Many projects are compensating for municipal
services which have been cut during the economic crisis, but could be expected to be restored as
conditions improve.
The sustainability of the workfare infrastructure subprojects financed under Jefes de Hogar is expected
to be reasonable given the substantial share of financing by local governments. In addition, the
strengthening of the evaluation methodology (including more attention to design standards, operations
and maintenance), promotion of criteria of the projects' relevance to the community, and close
supervision should contribute to sustainability of the subprojects. In the area of cost recovery, the
evaluation methodology includes a stipulation that the local practices for particular types of subprojects
(for example, basic sanitation, street paving, etc.) would be applied for any project that receives
financing for materials from the Program. The ex-post evaluation of a sample of subprojects undertaken
during supervision of the Social Protection m Project confirmed that the arrangements for operations and
maintenance as well as cost recovery were generally satisfactory. The recently concluded review of a
sample of subprojects financed under the Social Protection m Project showed that 70 percent of
subprojects were in full operation and 11 percent were in partial operation. The report recommended
some changes in the procedures of the Program to address some weaknesses demonstrated in those
projects that were not yet operating. For example, in the case of health infrastructure, the capacity of the
sponsoring agencies to both carry out the subproject, as well as assure the availability of the
complementary inputs for operation needs to be examined more critically. In addition, in cases where
subproject proposals are linked with "future" investments, more assurances are needed on the schedule
for their completion. Modifications to address these weaknesses were discussed and are reflected in the
Operational Manual for Jefes de Hogar.
-24-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex l):
Given the pressures caused by the social emergency, the transitional nature of the Government, and the
size of the Program, Bank support to Jefes de Hogar carries considerable risks. The initial
implementation of the Program was disorderly, in part because of the economic crisis and social protests.
Substantial improvements have been made since then and processes have been established in order to
better supervise and control it. Nevertheless, the Program will continue to come under pressure,
particularly in the run-up to elections, which are scheduled for early next year. The political authorities
of the Ministry of Labor are new; nevertheless, they have maintained the technical staff of the Ministry
who are experienced in designing and implementing other employment programs, such as Trabajar.
The Program is huge - currently about 1.7 million people are registered, of which about 64 percent are
currently engaged in workfare or training activities. The management, supervision, and control
challenges are immense. Even well-managed programs of this sort (e.g., in the OECD countries) have a
certain level of error - in the form of ineligible enrollments, two enrollments per household, and
individuals drawing benefits wrongly from multiple programs. For example, overpayments in the Food
Stamp Program in the United States represent about 8 percent of the total amount of benefits paid and in
some states error rates are as high as 15 percent. The results of the first two rounds of supervision visits
(in August-September) to about 125 municipalities indicate that the supporting documentation was not
complete in 30 percent of the sample and that 20 percent of the activities being undertaken received a
warning because of the existence of irregularities, such as low work attendance. The objective is to
reduce these error rates with continued supervision and. follow-up.
The high risks of supporting the Jefes de Hogar Program are being mitigated in several ways:
*   First, the design of the Program and its administrative procedures will help to mitigate risks. The
municipal consultative councils are expected to play an important role in controlling and supervising
the program and ensuring transparency in many areas. Experience so far suggests that this
instrument is likely to be more effective in smaller localities, than in the largest cities in the country.
The national consultative council for the Jefes de Hogar Program is also playing a positive role in
promoting more transparency in the operation of the Program. In addition, supervision procedures
have now been established to review compliance with both the requirements for supporting
documentation on beneficiaries and the workfare requirement. Systematic supervision visits to
municipalities would be carried out by the provincial offices of the Ministry of Labor as well as by
staff at the national level. The project would support the contracting of additional staff to ensure
more adequate and timely coverage.
*   Second, an extensive system of independent audits of Jefes de Hogar is already in process and
would continue through the life of the project. In addition to the regular audits of the project by the
national audit agency (which responds to the executive branch), this agency will also carry out a
system of continuous audits of the payments to beneficiaries. The audit agency which reports to the
legislative branch of the Government is undertaking field audits covering both management and
control aspects. Audits reports covering about half of the provinces, the role of the consultative
councils, and the beneficiary registry system have been completed and are posted on the web site of
the agency (www.sigen.gov.ar).
*   Third, the field work to generate the data for rigorous evaluations of impact and targeting of the Jefes
de Hogar program has already started. Preliminary results will be available by March/April 2003,
relatively early in the life of the project. Several national household surveys will provide data that
will serve, among other purposes, as an independent check on the operation of the program. One
survey is being undertaken by the studies division of the Ministry of Labor and the other by the
National Statistical Institute. In addition, questions on Jefes de Hogar have been included in both
- 25 -



qualitative and quantitative work which is being carried out periodically by the Country Management
Unit to monitor economic and social conditions in the country.
*   Fourth, the Bank is promoting the use of instruments to promote transparency in the management of'
the Program. This includes ensuring the availability to the public through various mechanisms of
information on basic indicators, beneficiaries, and workfare or training activities. Not only the
national government, but also local governments would be responsible for ensuring that information
on the program is made public.
* Fifth, in cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank and the United Nations
Development Program, the World Bank is providing financing for social monitoring of the social
assistance programs that are financed by these institutions. This monitoring would be done by a
group of nongovernmental organizations and would include Jefes de Hogar. The results of this
monitoring would be made available on the Bank's web site in Argentina (
www.bancomundial.org.ar.
;  . .Risk . . -. -  .. . .Risk Rating  A..  Risk Mi.tigation'Measure .-
From Outputs to Objective
Poor outcomes on targeting to poor       H         (1) Periodic analysis to ensure that the wage
workers                                           rate is set at the level necessary to ensure
self-targeting, including monitoring of data on
wage rates, evaluations, and discussions with
Government;
(2) Adequate supervision and follow-up of
compliance with work/training requirement,
support of local councils and executing
agencies;
(3) Adequate supervision and follow-up on
examination of beneficiary registers and the
supporting documentation;
(4) Rigorous and timely evaluation of targeting
performance; and
(5) Publication of names of beneficiaries.
Sub-projects with low value to poor      H         (1) Strengthen role of municipal councils, and
communities                                        the participation of agencies outside of the
government;
(2)Strengthen sub-project evaluation and
supervision for projects with material
financing;
(3) Close monitoring and periodic evaluation;
and
(4) Publication of activities/projects approved
by the municipal councils.
Upcoming elections (March 2003) distort   H        (1) Strengthen role of municipal councils and
targeting to the poor and lead to the              ensure adequate private participation;
financing of ineligible activities                 (2) Adequate supervision of beneficiary
registration information and work activities;
and
(3) Periodic audits of project by independent
groups and social monitoring by
nongovernmental agencies.
- 26 -



From Components to Outputs
Sufficient capacity to develop proposals  H        (I) Provide technical assistance to
of adequate quality for activities to              municipalities and the municipal councils; and
employ the large quantity of expected              (2) Expand financing for materials.
beneficiaries
Jefes de Hogar Program expands beyond     H        (I)Dialogue with Government on overall
target population.                                 budget and economic program; and
(2)Supervise the compliance with work
requirement and of registration procedures.
Overall Risk Rating                       H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Jefes de Hogar Program is a large-scale social assistance program. As discussed above, a certain
level of error is inevitable even in the best-managed of large-scale social assistance programs. The
proposed Bank loan is financing only a part of the activities included in the overall Program and
supervision is being done on a sample basis. Elections are also scheduled for early in 2003, and could
increase pressure to distort use of the Program by funding ineligible beneficiaries or activities and in
other ways not enforcing all of the requirements of the Program. It is possible that some of the activities
in which beneficiaries are engaged are of poor quality. There is also the risk that in some areas local
authorities will not ensure that all beneficiaries fulfill the requirement to work or to participate in training
activities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower shall update the existing information system within the Ministry of Labor, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. The information system would include a registry of the Temporary Workers
employed under the Jefes de Hogar Program that would link each Temporary Worker to whatever
activity (including subproject in the case of workfare) they are undertaking under the Program.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Utilization of Project Funds:
The Borrower would ensure that the wage rates applicable to the services of temporary and fixed term
workers for sub-projects shall not exceed Arg $150/mo., or such amount as is agreed between the Bank
and the Government during periodic reviews to ensure targeting of the Program to the poorest 20 percent
of the population, determined by a comparison of the Jefes de Hogar wage with the wages of individuals
(other than domestic workers) working at least 35 hours a week and ranked in the bottom quintile of the
income distribution using data from the EPH (Encuesta Perrnanente de Hogares). Such reviews would
take place no less than twice a year, linked to the May and October rounds of the EPH carried out by
INDEC (Section 3.05).
Project Management:
-27-



OCT-25-02 FRI 12:50 PM      BANCO MUNDIALARENINA            FAX HO.   54 11 4313 ARGT                2
OCT. 25. 2002  9:06AM      WORLD BANK LA4HR 202 676 0319                      NO.6389     P. 4
The Project will be canied out in accordane with an OporaioDal Manual acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.06). and Wil be managed by a Project Maagemnt Unt with functions ad key staff with
quaJifications and experience acceptable to the DImk (Section 3.04).
H. Readiness for Implemeitation
01. a) The enginetring design documetg for the first yeaxs Wdvides ame complete and ready for the
sat of project implementation.
[1 1. b) Not applicable.
Cl 2. The procuremeAt documents for the first yeur s activities are compiete and ready for the st   of
proje implementation.
rmi 3. Tho Project Ioplemeniaion Plan has been appraised and found to be realisdc and of saisfactory
quality.
U 4. The following items are lackdng and are discussed under loan conditions (Section 0):
!. Compliance with Bank Policies
nl . This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
N 2. Tie following excspons to Bank pollcie a reconumnded for approval, Ihe projea complies
with all other applicable Bankpolicies.
Local Cost Financing. The high share of local cost financin6 is a consequence of the main objective of
the project - trough th financing of labor-intensive community seuvicos and social and economic
inrastiuc   invesmin  ihe living sdards of poor communities would be raised and employment
created for poor workers It Is justified by the need to provide a safety not for poor households who have
been most adversely affected by unemployment in Argetina. 1he fact that the resources for the program
will bs targeed to Argntiuna's poor  people and areas also jutifies local cost finandng. Givyn the
objective of the Govemment to expand the programm ubstandally in order to havo a binipfcant impact on
the poor, and the sgent fisa policy being implemnnted by the Government, it is our judgment that the
financial requiremenEs of the progm would eceed the limits of available local savings mnd expected
foreign exchange resources.
gj. P.
Theresa Jones                    Chrltopher Chamberlin          AXl T     enbur
Team Leader                       ector ManagerIDlrwtor          Country MonageriDireotor
-28-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
*er j  ~D&W      ICMbfli-ioStrategy.-
. 0                       II dIcAtors           e     g    y   ,-        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance social development,  Poverty indicators (headcount, Government statistics  A stronger safety net would
including poverty alleviation  etc.) and unemployment rate                     alleviate poverty in the
and reduce unemployment                                                        short-run, while economic
growth and the consolidation
and deepening of reforms,
including in the labor market,
would provide the basis for
employment creation and
poverty reduction
Project Development       Outcome i Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Support a social safety net  Poverty indicators (headcount, Government statistics; results  Poverty is closely linked to
program which, through    etc.), net benefit to workers  of evaluation study of  unemployment
financing for small                                 participants of Jefes de Hogar
infrastructure and productive
activities, maintenance, and
community services provides
temporary employment to
poor workers and improves
the living standards in poor
communities
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Small community services,  No. of workers hired for  Monitoring system of      The design of the program and
infrastructure, productive  projects; payments made to  program; results of    its management result in
projects and temporary jobs  beneficiaries; extent to which  supervision of projects;  self-targeting to poor workers
for poor workers          projects are targeted within  ex-post evaluation of a sample and investments in projects
provinces to poor areas;  of projects                and services which have value
quality of investments                              to poor communities;
financed, including                                  Pressures related to upcoming
completion of projects and                           elections (March 2003) do not
results of productive projects,                      distort significantly either
no. of supervision visits to                        targeting to the poor or the
municipalities to check both                        type of activities being
beneficiary registration                             financed
information and on workfare
activities
-29-



Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Subprojects under the     Jefes de Hogar Program    Monitoring system         Sufficient capacity and
workfare program          budget                                              municipal funds to develop
proposals of adequate quality
to employ the large quantity of
expected beneficiaries
Project Management,                                                           Government continues to give
Supervision and Evaluation                                                    priority to program and
institutional support;
Systems of supervision and
monitoring adequate to
promote reasonable quality in
activities being financed as
well as to enforce the
requirement to work or to
participate in training
- 30-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1942.00 million
Jefe de Hogar Program - Workfare SubProjects: Subprojects will be presented by municipal
governments and civil society organizations. The menu of projects eligible for financing by the Jefes de
Hogar Program includes community services, minor construction, repair, expansion, maintenance or
remodeling of schools, health facilities, basic sanitation facilities, small roads and bridges, culverts and
canals, community kitchens and centers, tourist centers, low-cost housing, and on a pilot basis, some
productive activities. More detail on the requirements (including restrictions and special procedures) for
each category of subproject are contained in the Operational Manual. There are 2 types of subprojects.
For the first (a), the program finances a share of the cost of materials as well as beneficiary payments; in
the second (b), it finances only the payments to beneficiaries. Only municipalities would be eligible to
receive financing for the materials cost of subprojects. The (b) subcomponent is expected to be more
labor intensive and community service projects would be eligible as well as construction, rehabilitation
and maintenance of infrastructure.
Project Component 2 - US$25.00 million
Project administration.
Project Component 3 - US$ 12.00 million
Supervision of project implementation at the local level, including the supporting documentation for
beneficiary registration and the activities in which beneficiaries are engaged. Projects that receive
materials financing would be supervised at least twice, while other activities would be supervised on a
sample basis. Supervision would be carried out by Ministry of Labor staff employed at the provincial
level, supplemented by support from the national Ministry.
Project Component 4 - US$2.00 million
Evaluation and monitoring of the Jefes de Hogar program: Evaluation of the Jefes de Hogar Program
will focus on the targeting performance and measurement of the benefits of the subprojects for the
communities in which they are located. In addition, there will be ex-post evaluations of subproject
quality. A draft terms of reference for these studies has been agreed with the Government.
Component 1 (Workfare in Jefes de Hoear Program) Proiect Cycle
1.    Registration of Potential Beneficiaries. The program requires applicants to register at their
municipality. In order to register they need to provide a standard set of information and supporting
documentation (birth certificates, national identification numbers, and education and health certificates
for children) to the municipal employee handling the registration. This includes information on
household characteristics, such as employment history, number of children, and education levels. The
beneficiary signs a statement swearing that the information provided is correct. The registration data is
consolidated by the Ministry of Labor on the basis of information submitted by municipalities (either
off-line or on-line). Before making the monthly payments to beneficiaries, the National Social Security
Administration Agency carries out cross-checks to ensure that the beneficiary is not participating in
another program of the Ministry, receiving unemployment insurance, has a formal sector job, or is
receiving a cash transfer from another program of the national Government. In addition, the Ministry of
Labor has recently required all provinces and municipalities to provide the lists of their employees,
retirees, and beneficiaries of employment programs as well as any cash transfer programs. The names of
-31 -



potential beneficiaries would be cross-checked with these lists in order to confirm eligibility. It will take
several months for the arrangements for these cross-checks to be finalized, although progress has been
made in some provinces. Efforts are also being made to develop controls to limit participation to one
member per household. Once the eligibility of the applicant is confirmed, the individual can receive the
monthly stipend and must be available to be assigned by their municipality to either a workfare project,
training, or employment in an enterprise. Spots in training programs (which also include the termination
of basic education) will be determined by the municipality on the basis of the characteristics and desires
of the beneficiary, as well as the number of spaces in these programs (estimated at around 150,000
currently for a time period of either 6 months for most training courses and 9 months for the termination
of basic education). The registration process carried out in the municipalities would be supervised on a
sample basis by the provincial offices of the Ministry of Labor to ensure that the documentation required
is available and that the eligibility criteria have been enforced.
2.     Promotion of Workfare Projects/Activities. Most promotion activities would take place at the
municipal level, with the assistance of the provincial offices of the Ministry of Labor and the central
project coordination unit. This would include technical assistance for municipalities, NGOs and
community groups on the presentation of subprojects for financing under the Program. The provincial
and municipal councils recently created by the Government would be used by the Program to disseminate
information and to serve as a channel for questions and comments.
3.     Subproject Presentation/Approval. The Ministry of Labor has established guidelines for the
presentation of subprojects. There will be 2 subcomponents in workfare that will be financed by the
proposed loan. The first (a) includes subprojects for which a share of the cost of the materials needed for
the activity are financed under the proposed project. For these subprojects, details regarding eligibility
for each type are spelled out in the operational manual and in the guide for presentation of subprojects,
which is provided to sponsoring agencies. There is a standard application form that includes information
on the executing agency (including its performance on previously-financed projects). The application
form also includes the total cost, benefits expected, and location of the subproject. Completed
applications for a given locality would be reviewed and, if accepted, authorized by the municipal council.
Only municipalities could apply for financing for materials costs. For the second (b) component, the
Program would only finance the payments to the beneficiaries working on the subproject. The list of
eligible activities is similar to that for component (a), but could include more maintenance activities, as
well as community services. These proposals would also be presented in a standard format (simpler than
in the case of subcomponent (a)) and could be proposed by municipalities or civil society organizations.
The proposals would be reviewed by the municipal councils. If approved, they would be financed by the
Program. Summary information on the approved activities would be sent to the provincial office of the
Ministry of Labor, where it would be consolidated and sent to the Ministry of Labor where it would be
used to monitor this subcomponent.
4.     Subproject Evaluation. All subprojects financed under subcomponent (a) will be evaluated by
trained professionals, who are contracted and work at the provincial level of the Ministry of Labor. For
about 30 percent of the subprojects, the process of evaluation will include a site visit. Site visits would
be mandatory for certain types of projects, including those identified as presenting more significant
environmental risks. The methodology used for evaluation will cover economic, technical, financial,
institutional, environmental, and social aspects of the subproject and incorporates checks on costs using a
database of unit cost comparisons for similar types of subprojects. The database consists of subprojects
that have been financed previously by the Trabajar Program. There will be no outside technical
evaluation for the subprojects financed under subcomponent (b).
- 32 -



5.     Subproject Implementation, Financing of Materials, and Payment of Workers  Once a
subproject is approved, the executing agency will be informed and the municipality will assign the
number of workers necessary from the list of registered beneficiaries. The agency is responsible for
ensuring that the workers perform the activities in the hours established, 4 hours per day, 5 days a week.
Under the proposed project, the Bank would continue to finance the costs of materials for selected
subprojects. In poor areas (with a population under 50,000) with an NBI of over 30 percent, comprising
nearly 500 municipalities, the project would finance up to 80 percent of the cost up to a maximum of
US$12,000, or $10,000 for productive activities. For other municipalities with a population of 100,000
or less (covering about 1,100), the project would finance up to half of the cost of materials, again up to a
limit of US$12,000. The agreement that would be signed between the Ministry and the municipality
would specify the procurement procedures to be followed for material purchases (generally local
shopping) and documentation would be retained at the municipality for review during subproject
supervision. Since the goods to be purchased would be standard, common construction materials, during
evaluation they would also be compared against the unit cost database. Reimbursements would be made
in 2 phases: 60 percent at the beginning of the project and 40 percent once the project is completed, in
an account the municipality has in the Banco de la Naci6n. It is estimated that materials could be
financed for 8,000 - 10,000 projects under the proposed loan.
6.     Beneficiary Payment. Checks are issued to each worker once a month Payments are handled
by the National Social Security Administration which is part of the Ministry of Labor. Workers receive
their checks at a bank. Workers sign for their checks and this documentation confirming receipt of
payment is kept in each bank branch and is reviewed during the audit process. A summary of the
information is returned to the national office of the Ministry of Labor for reconciliation and used in
applying for reimbursement from the World Bank.
7.     Subproject Supervision. Subprojects that receive financing for materials would be supervised
by trained professionals, contracted at the provincial level. Generally each subproject would be
supervised at least two times during execution, once at the beginning of implementation before the first
payment to workers is authorized and once when the project is near completion, before the final payment
to workers is authorized. Some projects would also be visited mid-way through project execution,
including those presenting more complicated environmental issues. Technical assistance would be
provided to those executing projects, focusing in particular on cases where supervision identifies
problems. Subprojects for which the Program only finances payments to beneficiaries (subcomponent
(b)) would be supervised by Ministry of Labor staff at the provincial level on a sample basis.
Information on the results of the supervision visits would be consolidated and discussed at the subproject
approval meetings at the provincial level and would also be provided to both the provincial and
municipal councils. Municipal councils are also responsible for carrying out supervision activities.
8.     Program Management, Oversight and Monitoring. The Jefes de Hogar Program will be
managed by a Technical Coordinating Commission which has been established within the Ministry of
Labor. The members are the national directors whose areas have a role in the implementation of the
Program. In addition, representatives of both the Social Security Administration and the CONAEYC are
members. The functions of the Commission are to: coordinate and ensure the correct execution of
processes, the solution to problems and the submission of reports related to the administration, control
and supervision of beneficiaries, projects, and activities; the processing of data on beneficiaries, activies
and organizations; the payment of beneficiaries and the rendering of those accounts; and the preparation
of monitoring reports; all as set out in the legal norms for the Program or that are within the
administrative competency of the Ministry with regards to the Program. The workfare component of
Jefes de Hogar is managed by a small unit under the Directorate of Employment Promotion, the same
- 33 -



group who managed the previous Trabajar Program (financed under the Social Protection II and m
Projects.) In order to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program, the Government has also
created a National Council For Administration, Execution, and Control (CONAEYC), which is
comprised of 3 representatives from each of the following sectors: business, labor unions, civil society
organizations, religious groups, and the National Government. Members were named and the council
established in mid-May 2002. Its role in the Jefes de Hogar Program is wide-ranging, incorporating
functions of monitoring, control, development of new policies, oversight of training activities,
establishment of an external evaluation of the Program, contributing to the dissemination of information,
and reporting periodically to the President on these activities. The Council would be assisted by an
Executive Secretariat.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
.   .  . Locai  Foreign     Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $mililon   US $million
Jefes de Hogar Subprojects                                1905.00        37.00       1942.00
Project Administration                                     24.00           1.00        25.00
Project Supervision                                         12.00         0.00         12.00
Project Monitoring and Evaluation                            2.00         0.00          2.00
Total Basefine Cost                                       1943.00        38.00       1981.00
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                         0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs1            1943.00         38.00       1981.00
Front-end fee                     6.00          6.00
Total Financing Required             1943.00         44.00       1987.00
Identifiable taxes and dudes are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 1987 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 30.2%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4: Monitoring Indicators
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
I. Project Cycle for Projects with Financing of Materials
(1) No. of Projects (overall and by province)
(a) Presented
(b) Determined to be Viable
(c) Approved
(d) Finalized
* (2) Percentage of projects completed satisfactorily (can be used)
II. Direct beneficiaries (overall and by province)
* (1) No. of workers participating in workfare (without and without financing of materials)
* (2) % of workers with complete registration information by province
(3) No. of beneficiaries (total) employed in each activity (workfare without financing of
materials, workfare with financing of materials, training, education, private employment)
(4) No. of beneficiaries / workfare project (without and without financing of materials)
(average and range by province)
(5) Key characteristics of beneficiaries: sex, age, previous economic activity, education level,
no. of children, previous participation in employment or training program, household
income, confirmation of education and health certificates
m. Budget/Process Indicators
* (1) No. of workfare activities executed by province (with and without financing of materials)
(2) No. of sub-projects appraised/evaluator/mo (overall and by province)
(3) Projects visited for evaluation/total projects/mo (overall and by province)
(4) No. of workfare projects with materials financing supervised/supervisor/mo
(5) Supervision visits/project/mo (overall and by province)
(6) Av. no. of supervision visits/project during its execution (overall and by province)
* (7) No. of supervision visits to municipalities to review registration system/by province/mo
(8) No. of supervision visits to training courses and basic education courses
* (9) No. of supervision visits to municipalities to supervise workfare projects without financing of
materials
IV. Beneficiary Payments
* (1) Accumulated payments to Beneficiaries on workfare (with and without financing of
materials)
(2) Beneficiaries experiencing payment delays/total beneficiaries
V. Project outputs and costs (overall and by province)
(I) Number of workfare projects by type (with and without financing of materials)
VI. Extent of Targeting to Poor Areas/Participation/Coverage Rates
- 36 -



(1) Correlation of payments with incidence of NBI within country and within provinces
(2) % of projects with participation by NGOs, organizations of civil society, etc. (overall and by
province)
(3) No. of Beneficiaries/number of households with children under the age of 18 (by province
and municipality)
-37-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
The expected spending for Jefes de Hogar, the Government's main response to the economic crisis, is
projected to represent about I percent of GDP in 2003. This is comparable to spending on social
assistance of about the same share of GDP in the U.S. or Spain, but less than the shares in the United
Kingdom or France (34 percent of GDP). Given the context of the social crisis, the Jefes de Hogar
Program is considered to be affordable even under a scenario of continued fiscal discipline and control,
in part because the Govemment has eliminated other programs of social assistance and diverted funding
from them to this Program.
The other fiscal impact is the operations and maintenance expenditures for the completed subprojects for
the workfare component of the Jefes de Hogar Program. These are small projects (below $75,000) and
are generally sponsored by municipalities who, with the exception of the poorest small municipalities,
finance a significant share of the total cost. Moreover, some of these investments are rehabilitation,
maintenance or expansion of existing facilities. Since the subprojects are spread throughout the country,
the operations and maintenance obligations are unlikely to be significant for any one municipality. The
ability of the sponsoring organization to ensure the subsequent operations and maintenance of the
subproject is also considered during evaluation of the projects for which materials are financed.
- 38-



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
Procurement
A large proportion of the loan would not involve procurement as the Bank would reimburse the
Government for remuneration paid to qualified beneficiaries of the workfare components of the Jefes de
Hogar program. The procurement that is carried out for the proposed Project (office equipment and
supplies and materials for subprojects) would be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 2000), and
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed
in Table B.
As mentioned above, remuneration paid to workfare participants of the Jefes de Hogar Program
(estimated to amount to $1.2 billion for the Program, of which $478.5 million would be financed under
the Bank loan) is not subject to procurement. Procurement for office equipment and supplies (estimated
at $1.5 million, of which $1 million would be financed by the project) and materials for selected
subprojects would be handled using either NCB or shopping depending on the value of the contract. In
the case of materials for subprojects, estimated to amount to $210.0 million, of which $100 million
would be financed by the Bank loan, agreements signed between the Ministry of Labor and the
municipality sponsoring the project would specify the procurement procedure to be followed. These
procedures are set out in the operational manual. It is estimated that between 8,000-10,000 subprojects
would receive financing for materials. The cost of each selected subproject would not exceed $35,000
with a maximum of $12,000 of materials financed for each. The subprojects would follow standard,
basic designs. The materials that would be financed are expected to be mainly off-the-shelf, standard
construction items. The value of the contract for any one item would be relatively small. Wherever
possible, municipalities would use local shopping. All documentation relating to purchases of materials
financed by the Program would be maintained at the municipality for review during supervision. In some
rural, isolated areas, it may not be practical or feasible to obtain quotations from more than one supplier.
In those cases, direct contracting for purchases of materials would be permitted for individual contracts
below $5,000 up to an aggregate amount of $10 million. The costs of the common construction materials
would be compared against the unit cost data base during sub-project evaluation. Municipalities would
be reimbursed for the cost of materials in 2 phases upon the receipt of information regarding project
execution.
- 39 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
: .                                          5 . @ . . ; S . > {: £ ^. ^ o sProcurement Method
- Expendliture Category         ice             NCB          Cher.                     I 6a Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00        531.50     531.50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.50         211.00        0.00       211.50
(0.00)         (0.50)       (100.50)      (0.00)    (101.00)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          18.00        20.00      38.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (14.50)      (0.00)     (14.50)
4. Remuneration for                0.00           0.00         1200.00       0.00      1200.00
Temporary/Fixed Term Staff
(Jefes de Hogar Program)
(0.00)         (0.00)       (478.50)      (0.00)    (478.50)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00          6.00         0.00        6.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (6.00)       (0.00)      (6.00)
Total                           0.00            0.50        1435.00       551.50     1987.00
__ __ __ (0.00)        (0.50)      (599.50)      (0.00)     (600.00)
ItFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Goods would be procured mainly through national shopping. Remuneration for temporary/fixed term staff - the
beneficiaries of the Jefes de Hogar Program - is not subject to procurement. The amount under works represents the
counterpart financing of approved subprojects by municipalities and is not subject to procurement either.
Most of the consulting services to be contracted would be related to project management. Most of the
contracts are expected to be for individuals and below $100,000. For these contracts, it is expected that
consultants would be selected according to their qualifications. In addition, individual consulting
contracts for services with an expected total duration of six months or more would be advertised and
contracts would be signed for the expected duration of the assignment, subject to annual reviews for
performance. Contracts with individuals may only be terminated for poor performance or for
non-completion of the work with Bank agreement. The Bank would not agree to the replacement of
individuals fired for other than the aforestated reasons. Single-source selection would be used only in
exceptional cases, and with one exception, only for contracts below $100,000. The Ministry of Labor
expects to use the services of UNDP to provide administrative support on tasks related to project
management. The cost of this contract is slightly below $200,000. The choice of UNDP by the
Govemment is based on their prior experience with similar projects.
-40-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
' ;"- ContractValue s .-        .L?                 -Cinfrct Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                       N/A                     NBF                    None
2. Goods                     100 to 350                NCB                First 2 contracts
100 to 5               Shopping                 None
<5,000             Direct Contracting           None
3. Services
Firms                        >100,000             Bank Guidelines              All
Individuas .<100,000                           Bank Guidelines       Review of TORs only
Individuals                   >50,000             Bank Guidelines              All
<50,000             Bank Guidelines      Review of TORs only
4. Remuneration for
Temporary/Fixed Term
Staff (Trabajar)
5. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  1.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
The ex-post review of subprojects with financing of materials would cover 5% of the total subprojects
financed.
Procurement Environment and Professional Experience in Procurement
An Agency Capacity Assessment was carried out, and the recommendations in this section stem from the
findings of the assessment action plan. The Project Implementation Unit has gained considerable
experience while implementing the previously-financed Trabajar Program. With the exception of
alleged political interference in the selection of beneficiaries, there has not been any major procurement
issue during the previous two projects. This should not be an issue in the proposed project given the
decision of the Government to pay the benefit to any beneficiary who meets the eligibility criteria and is
willing to fulfill the work or training requirement and as long as the registration process and compliance
with the work/training requirement is supervised. In addition, besides maintaining the present practice of
disclosing the lists of beneficiaries for each project via internet, information satisfactory to the Bank
would be disclosed as well, generally at the local level, where it would be more useful in improving the
quality of subprojects and their relevance to local needs and ensuring that the registration process is just.
Also, the Government should complete the development of the Unified Registry of Beneficiaries of
Social Projects, an effort led by the Ministry of Social Development and supported by the Bank through
other lending activities. Information on subprojects would be available on the internet within six months
of project effectiveness.
A good operational manual was developed during the previous Second and Third Social Protection
Projects. Revisions to the operational manual including publication of information on subprojects at the
-41 -



local level as well as on the internet, better monitoring of constructions costs during the subproject
evaluation process, more specific requirements for record keeping and more explicit guidelines on
shopping procedures for materials purchases in subprojects were discussed and agreed during appraisal.
Procurement Planning and Monitoring/Control of Procurement Actions
Procurement planning is limited in this project because it is demand-driven. The Project Implementation
Unit has good monitoring and control systems in place. The sites of subprojects receiving grants for the
procurement of construction materials are visited twice during project implementation, at which time the
invoices for the construction materials are checked. The organizations sponsoring subprojects are
responsible for ensuring the attendance of the beneficiaries at the work site.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 42-



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The Assessment indicates that an adequate financial management system to keep records and report on
the use of funds of the project is in place. The project implementation unit has agreed to take steps to
address the issues raised in previous audit reports. These included recommendations on the application
of more uniform criteria on accounting, better record keeping, and a more timely book of operations.
The main risks identified in the project are the effects of political changes and re-organizations of the
Ministry of Labor. The risk of the financial management system is judged as average. For the internal
control framework the risk is judged as high, owing to the large number of small payments to
beneficiaries. This risk is being addressed by a continuous audit of the payment system for beneficiaries
by the National Audit Service.
The strengths identified in the assessment are the experienced staff in the Ministry of Labor and the
adequate systems to administer and operate the previously financed Trabajar Program. The project
implementation unit has in place an administrative structure with an adequate segregation of duties, and
is capable of adequately performing the processes of budgeting, payments, operation of Bank accounts
and keeping of accounting records. In addition, the project has a good information system. The
weaknesses are the delays in the reconciliation of payments made to beneficiaries, and associated delays
in reports and refunds to the Program. There is also an outstanding issue with the Argentine Postal
Service over refunds owed to the Program. Due to these issues, under the proposed Project there will be
a higher degree of financial separation between the Project and the other programs of the Ministry of
Labor. The modification to the flow of funds arrangements was confirmed at negotiations. In addition,
in order to correct the problems associated with the delay in payment reports for beneficiaries and the
refund of unpaid funds, the Ministry has held discussions with ANSES with the aim of speeding up the
delivery of information. The operational manual was revised to include the above mentioned
modifications in the financial management arrangements.
The format for the Financial Management Reports (FMRs) to be submitted to the Bank every quarter
were agreed during appraisal. Draft formats were prepared as part of the financial management
assessment.
2. Audit Arrangements
The project is expected to use the audit services of the National Audit Service (Auditoria General
Naciona1), as was the case in the previous two projects. Audits could also be undertaken by private firms
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank. Delays in the receipt of audits ( 1997-2000)
occurred under both the Social Protection H and m Projects. Efforts will be made by both the Ministry
of Labor and the National Audit Service to submit audits on time. Another issue in previous audits was
the failure of the auditors to check in detail the beneficiary payment system. This led them to issue a
disclaimer of opinion on the project, although no material observations were made. This deficiency was
remedied in the 2000 audit.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The disbursement method to be carried out by the Project will be transactions based on Statements of
Expenditure (see below). The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over a period
-43-



of 2 years. The project completion date would be January 31, 2004 and the Loan closing date is July 30,
2004. Retroactive financing of up to 20 percent of the loan or $120 million would be available to cover
eligible expenditures incurred after July 1, 2002, but no more than 12 months prior to loan signing.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 44 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in (lS$rnr           FInenzin-1 Percentiage
Services:                                 0.00
(a) Remuneration for Temporary Staff     478.50                       90%
(Jefes de Hogar)
(b) Consulting Services                   14.50           95% of local and 100% of foreign
expenditures
Goods                                     0.00
(a) Office equipment and supplies         1.00            100% of foreign and 50% of local
expenditures
(b) Materials for sub-projects in        40.00                        80%
selected municipalities
(c) Materials for sub-projects in all    60.00                        50%
other municipalities with population
below 100,000
Total Project Costs                      594.00
Front-end fee        6.00                        100%
Total                                    600.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications for consultant services with a contract value of $100,000 or more, and $50,000
or more for the employment of firms and individual consultants, respectively, would be supported by full
documentation. Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs against eligible expenditures not
undertaken by contract, which would cover payments of remuneration of temporary workers in the Jefes
de Hogar program and the materials financed for selected projects. The documentation on the payment
to beneficiaries will be submitted to the Bank with the information on the payment made to the
beneficiaries submitted by ANSES or any payment agency to the Project. The subsidies to finance
materials in the subprojects will be paid directly by the project implementation unit and submitted for
their reimbursement against the deposit to the account opened by the subproject. Supporting
documentation for these expenditures would be maintained by the Ministry of Labor, and would be
available for periodic review by the Bank. The preparation of the withdrawal applications, SOEs and the
organization of the supporting documentation is the responsibility of a team in the Ministry of Labor, led
by an administrative officer.
Special account:
A Special Account of $60 million would be opened for this project in the Banco de la Nacion. The
Ministry of Labor would submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis,
or whenever 20 percent of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The
replenishment application will be supported by the necessary documentation: a bank statement of the
Special Account and a reconciliation bank statement of the Special Account against the Bank's records.
Replenishment of the Special Account would follow Bank procedures. The Special Account would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would be submitted to
the Bank for review and approval within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
-45 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
Project Schedule                                Planned                    Actuial
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)           02/01/2001                  02/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                   02/19/2002                  03/11/2002
Negotiations                                  05/20/2002                  07/15/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 11/27/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Labor
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
N,ffme  '.Speciality. -
Martin Ravallion                 Economic Analysis, Evaluation
Karla McEvoy                     Environmental Analysis, Administrative costs
Andres Mac Gaul                  Procurement
Antonio Leonardo Blasco          Financial Management
Sandra Cesilini                  Social Evaluation
Christina Alquinta               Administrative and Project processing support
Polly Jones                      Task Manager
Ariel Fiszbein                   Country Sector Leader
-46 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
Proyecto Presentado al BIRF - Version Borrador
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Draft Procurement Assessment (Andres Mac Gaul)
Financial Management Assessment (Antonio Leonardo Blasco)
C. Other
Evaluacion Ex-Post de Una Muestra de Proyectos Del Programa Trabajar III por Maria Claudia
Vasquez (febrero 2002)
Programa Trabajar III - Evaluacion Social
Inforne Final
Anexo I - Characteristicas generales de la composicion de las entrevistas y de los grupos y
pautas utilizadas para la realizacion de las entrevistas y grupos focales
Anexo 11- Descripcion de los actores entrevistados
Anexo III - Resultados del trabajo de campo
Informe sobre el Registro de Beneficiarios para Jefes de Hogar por Tarsicio Castaneda (July 2002)
Including electronic files
-47-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
02-Oct-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev6d
P070374       2002- AR PROFAM LIL                                  5.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      5.00       1.27      0.00
P069913       2W02 AR Santa Fe ProvincelaReforn                  330.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00    176.70      50.00      0.00
P044447       2001 AR Catamarca Proinrcia Reforn                  70.70       0.00                0.00      0.00     44.30      45.00     20.00
P057473       2001 AR INDIGENOUS COMMUNrrY DEVELOPMENT             5.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      4.75       1.75      0.00
P064614       2001 AR- Second Secondary Education Project         5B.99      0.00                 0.00      0.00     53.33      -3.66      0.00
P068344       2001 AR Cordoba PRLS                               303.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00    200.00     100.00      0.00
P055482       2000 AR-Pub. Htth. Surv. & Disease Contrt           52s50      0.00                 0.00      0.00     31.98      25.38      0.00
P045048       1999 GEF AR-RENEWA8LE ENERGY IN RURAL MARK           0.00      0.00                10.00      0.00      8.86      5.98       0.00
P0o5461       1999 AR SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                         10.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      3.45       345       345
P057449       1999 AR State Modernization                         30.30      0.00                 0.0       0.00     23.62      23.82      0.00
P006058       1999 AR-Social Prot.4                               90.80      0.00                 0.00      0.00     54.54      44.57      0.00
P006046       1999 WATER SCTR RFRM                                30.00       0.00                0.00      0.00     26.98      26.96      0.40
P006043       1999 RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                            30.00       0.00                0.00      0.00     28.39      15.99      0.00
P050714       1998 AR-SecondaryEd.3                               11900       000                 0.00      000       049        049       000
P052590       1998 NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                           450.00       0.00                0.00      0.00    156.41     153.35      0.00
P050713       1998 AR MODEL COURT DEV.                             5.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      3.53       3.53      0.00
P006050       1998 POLLUT1ON MGT.                                  18.00     0.00                 0.00      6.00     10.37      15.75      6.62
P006041       1998 SMALL FARMER DV.                               75.00       0.00                000       0.00     35.19      34.25     3425
P039787       1998 GEF AF-BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION                0.00       0.00               10.10      0.00      8.07       2.56      0.00
P049269       1998 AR-Social Protec.3                             284.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      2.34       2.34      0.00
P395s84       1997 B.A.URB.TSP                                    200.00      0.00                0.00      0.00    125.89     115.89     49.89
P005980       1997 PROV ROADS                                     30000       000                 000       0.00    200.61     197.61     20.75
P040808       1997 N.FOREST1PROTC                                  19.50      0.00                0.00      0.00      11.35      5.86      0.00
P006059       1997 AR-Maternal & Child Hlth & Nutrition 2         100.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     41.60      26.60      0.00
P043418       1997 AR-AIDSandSTDControl                            1500       0.00                0.00      0.00      0.93       0.93      0.00
P006010       1997 PROVAGDEVTI                                    125.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     104.90     81.67     50.11
P046821       1997 ARPENSIONTA                                    20.00       0.00                0.00      0.00      3.64       3.64      3.64
P006052       1997 FLOOD PROTECTION                               200.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     130.10    130.10    130.10
P006040       1996 FORESTRY/DV                                     16.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      4.83       4.38      0.00
P034091       1998 AR-Higher Ed. Reform                           165.00      0.00                0.00     25.40     27.90      S3.30     53.30
P037049       1998 AR PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                            16.00      0.0                 0.00      5.50      5.69      11.19      0.00
P006057       1998 AR-SECONDARYED.2                               115.50      0.00                0.00      0.00     29.66      29.66      0.00
P006018       1995 AR PROV DEVT II                                225.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     26.75      26.75     14.63
P006060       1995 ARMUNICDEVWII                                  210.00      0-00                0.00      2.92     3433       27.76      6.05
Total:    3692.29       0.00              20.10      39.82    1626.68    1268.13    393.19
- 48-



ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval       Company                      Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000               ASF                         20.00   0.00    0.00   20.50   20.00   0.00    0.00   20.50
1998              AUTCL                        5.22    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/02           Aceitera General            30.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1960/95/97/99     Acindar                     48.61    0.00    0.00    0.00  48.61    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        Aguas                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977184186188194/96  Alpargatas               10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50   10.00   0.00    0.00   40.50
1999              American Plast               7.82    0.00    0.00    0.00   7.82    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Arg Equity Inv.              0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.79    0.00    0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC              26.65    12.50   0.00    0.00   23.20  12.50     0.00   0.00
1989/91/96        BBV Bco. Frances             0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/99           BGN                          0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    33.00   0.00
2001              BSFE                         19.42   0.00    0.00    0.00    5.25   0.00     0.00   0.00
Banco Galicia               50.00    0.00    0.00  200.00  50.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1996/99           Bansud                       1.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.89   0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Bco Hipotecario             25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50   25.00   0.00    0.00  102.50
2000              Brahma - ARG                 3.57    0.00    8.50    3.30    3.57   0.00     8.50   3.30
1996              Bunge-Ceval                  9.65    0.00    5.00    0.00    9.65   0.00    5.00    0.00
1997              CAPSA                        6.00    0.00    5.00   16.50    6.00   0.00    5.00   16.50
1996              CCI                          0.00   20.00    6.00    0.00    0.00  20.00     6.00   0.00
1999              CEPA                         6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20    6.67   0.00     3.00   1.20
1995              Cefas                       10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    6.00   0.00     5.00   0.00
2000              Correo Argentino            52.18    6.82    5.18    0.00   52.18   6.82     5.18   0.00
1999              EDENOR                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95           F.V. S.A.                    8.25    0.00    4.00    0.00    8.25   0.00    4.00    0.00
1998              FAID                         0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.75     0.00   0.00
1998              FAPLAC                      10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00   0.00     5.00   0.00
2000              FEPSA                        0.55    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.55    0.00    2.00   0.00
1992              FRIAR                        10.00   0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00   0.00     2.50   7.00
1997              Grunbaum                     6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33    6.00   0.00     2.00   3.33
1996              HSBC Argentina              22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97           Hospital Privado             9.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.06   0.00     0.00   0.00
1998              Huantraico                   0.00   17.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
Kleppe/Caldero               6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              MBA                          0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.16     0.00   0.00
1995/97           Malteria Pampa               1.50    0.00    1.00    0.00    1.50   0.00     1.00   0.00
1996              Milkaut                      5.63    0.00   10.00    1.50    5.63   0.00    10.00   1.50
1992/93/96        Minetti                     30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00   30.00   0.00    14.00  100.00
0/97              Molinos                      0.00     1.24   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00
1978/81/86/87/91/93/9 Nahuelsat                8.82    5.00    0.00    0.00    8.82   5.00     0.00   0.00
6/99              Neuquen Basin                0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94           Nuevo Central                0.63    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.63   3.00     0.00   0.00
1995              PAE - Argentine              1.82    0.00    0.00    3.64    1.82   0.00     0.00   3.64
1996/99           Patagonia                    2.70    0.00    1.00    0.00    2.70   0.00     1.00   0.00
1993              Patagonia Fund               0.00   14.97    0.00    0.00    0.00   7.80     0.00   0.00
1992/95
1998
1998
Total Portfolio:      623.01  117.41  155.05  759.78  568.39   86.84  155.05  729.78
- 49-



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              APSF                             0.00     0.00      0.00     9.50
1998              Suquia CL                        2.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              American Plast                   0.00     0.00      0.35     0.00
2000              Minetti Int Swap                 4.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC                  50.00     0.00     37.50   450.00
2000              Hipotecario USCP                25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              ITBA                             7.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              Eki                              9.50     2.50      0.00     0.00
2001              Edenor SME                      20.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              Gasnor                          21.00     0.00      0.00    20.00
2002              EDET                            20.00    15.00      0.00    50.00
Total Pending Commitment:      159.00    17.50     37.85   529.50
- 50-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
a 4                ~~~~Latin  upper-
POVERTY   'n'SCILAmerica                                                  middle-
200                                               Aigentlna   A Carib.   Income       Development diamond'
Popumlation. mid-year:(minllions):                      370        518i  .     47Liexpcay
GNl per capita(tAtlas method. US$)-                    7.470:     3,80;    '4.8
ON.AI (Alhiasmthod, LIS$ blin)278.5                               189       2.988..:
Average anntual growvth. 1994-()0
Population %),                               . . ...     1 .3.     .16        13
Laborforce(%)   .                  21         23        20      ~~~      ~     ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~GNI  /Grosa
perpimy
nteatimate (latest year availale,19   0                                      capita                        enrollment
poverty (% of populAtion bel6w nationial poverty line)::
Urban pop'ulation (% oiItota pcp ulatIon)                 90:       75         76; 
Life expecbtancy at birth (Years)                        7          0         6
'Infant mornafityl (per 1.b00 lIve births).18...2
Child ma'ln'utrition (% of children under 5)               2          9.                    ACCess to Improved water source
Accesa t'o a'n Improved w'ater'scotiCe .(% of 0pUtopualo):r  79;    65,        87.
Ilieay(%~ of population age 15+)                       3:       12         10:,
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoo- gepplto)           1         113        107        -   Argentina
Male11                                                                     108         - - - Upper.mlddle-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS-end LONG-TERM TRENDS                                    10006
.1980     1990    -.1999      .2000-
Economic ratios'
GDOP (US$ billions)          .  -77.0'                 141.4      283.3     285.0:'
:GrosedomeastIc inve'stment/GDP                25.3 ,   14.0: ..   17.9      1 5.9                     Trd
Export of goode and servlces/GOP               .5.1,    10.4 .:     9.8      10.8rad
Groaa:domeal savinige/G                     . 23.8      19.7       18:2      15.3'
Gross national savings/GDP                   .22.8'     15.4   ,13.7         1.
Curr:ent account balance/GDP                  -.6.4'     1.2.      -4.2      -31
internet,paymients/GOP                         ..        1.8.       3.0:      356       oetcinvestment
Total debt/GDP                                :35.3.    44.0       51.5      51.        aig
Total debt servIce/expot                       37.3     41.0      1 00.2      5.
Present value of debt/GOP.;                                ..       4.
Preasoet Value of detitiexports                 .          .     455'.3
(av~erages annual growth):        18-0:900            .19          00     204
GDP                                   -0.7    ,4.3      r3.4.     --0.5        .          -   Argentina
.GDCP per caOlta:                    :-2.1 I'  :3.0.    .-4.8      .13 7      0.2..              Upper-middle-Income group
Eports 01 goodseand.services         3.8      8.     ,-1.4         20        57
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980      1990      1999       2000      Growthx of Investment and GOP %
(% of GDP)                                                                             2e
Agriculture                                     8.4      8.1        4.6       4.
Industry                                      41.2      38.0       27.6      27.8 1
Manufacturing                                29.5     26.8       18.1      17.6       00r_~
Servicee                                      52.4      55.9       87.7      87.'7                  go]. fee 7se go~
Private consumption                              ..     77.1       70.1      70.9     .201
General government consumption                   ..      3.1       13.7      13.8                   _   0        *-D
Imports of goods and services                   8.5      4.8       1 1.5     11.400GD
1980-90   1990400      1999       2000      Growth of exports and Imports %
(average annual growth)
Agriculture  .0.7                                        3.4        1.8      -2.5     30
Industry                                      -1.3       3.8       -8.7      -3.2     25
Manufacturing                                -0.8      2.8       -7.7      -3.0      s
Services                                       0.0       4.5       -1.5       0.5 
Private consumption                              ..      2.8       -3.2       1.3     -'5 
General government consumption                   ..      1.8        0.8      -0.4    -20
Gross domestic Investment                      -5.2      7.3      -12.8      -8.8                -   Exports   -0    imports
Imports of goods and services                  -5.8     15.4      -11.7      -0.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average, if data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 51 -



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990     1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                6
Consumer prices                        100.8  2,314.0     -1.2    -0.8    4
Implicit GDP deflator                   90.8  2,076.8    -1.9      1.1    2
Govemment finance                                          o                                               4
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                      -2     65
Current revenue                          8.1    14.4     19.7     19.7    4
Current budget balance                   3.1    -1.5      -1.5    -1.5           -    GDPdeflator  s  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                 -2.5    -2.5     -2.6     -2.4
TRADE
1980    1990     1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ 1"iffons)
Total exports (fob)                       ..  12,488    23,315  26,244    40,000
Food                                    ..    1,374    2,063    2,322
Meat                                    ..     873      829      933    30,00.
Manufactures                             ..   3,364    6,952    7,825
Total Imports (cit)                       ..   4,197    25,538  25.157    20       _     
Food                                     ..               ..            10
Fuel and energy                         ..     423       730     719
Capitalgoods                             ..   1,338   11,902   11,724       o
94  r,s  96  67   6s  99  oo
Export price Index (1995- 100)            ..        ..      80     SE8
Import price Index (199&-100)             ..      ..       85       83                H Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                 ..      ..       94      106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990     1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS migions)
Exports of goods and services          9.893  14,727    27,836  31,005     0
Imports of goods and services         13,081   6,954    32,687  32,685
Resource balance                      -3,188   7,773    -4,851  -1,679
Net income                             -1,609  -6,203   -7,473  -7,517
Net current transfers                   -101      71      379      287    -3 I             I    I    I    '
Current account balance               -4,898   1,641   -11,945  -8,909      --
Flnancing items (net)                  6,776   1,352    13,146   8,470     s
Changes in net reserves               -1,878   -2,993   -1,201     439    .6
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)    ..  10,814    27,831  26,465
Conversion rate (DEC, local'/US$)    4.99E-08    0.5       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990     1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed  27,157  62,232   145,994  146,395
IBRD                                   404   2,609     8,596   8,789                       A. 8.789
IDA                                      0       0        0        0          G: 31,545  - -     C: 5,056
Total debt service                     4,182   6,158    27,900   26,500                            0D11,633
IBRD                                    71     414      982     1,239                                E:4,299
IDA                                      0       0        0        0E4.9
Composition of net resource flows
Otficial grants                          2      21        6        6
Official creditors                      58     456     1,538    1.957
Private creditors                    6,038    -974     3,478  -4,204                   i-
Foreign direct investmernt             678   1,836     8,236   10,696                          ,
Portfolio equity                         0      13     -112       15                     F:85,073
World Bank program
Commitments                             27       0      132      441     A - IBRD                 E - Bilateral
Disbursements                          71      405     1,573   1,020     B - IDA  D - Other muldlateral F - Prvate
Principal repayments                    34     233      445      538     C - IMF                  G - Short-term
Net flows                               37     172     1,128     482
Interest payments                       37     182      537      701
Net transfers                            0     -10      591     -219
Development Economics                                                                                    9/13/01
-52-



Additional Annex 11: Letter from Argentina Government to President Wolfensohn
ARGENTINA: Jefes de Hogar (Heads of Household) Program
Buenos Aires, d0ob"r 21,2002
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Jamies    ,; 9om
Preside; World Bank (roup                    i
1818 H Stre,N.W.,                                     *.
Washigton,DC20433
Re: Progam for Unemployed Male and
Female Household eWads with ClIdlu
und4er Age - Socil Protection Loan VI
Dear Mr Wolfbnsohn,
Since tie beginning of tis year t  Argene Oovenent has
had to face a majoz challenge: that of restorng social peace and conf e in the country's
ins8titutions,.
noe prmry commi6ment of this Adiian is tb redesign a
sustainable macroecoomic famewoik capable of leadigg thc econmy to the path of sUs-
tamd growth in the s  t     guarteiga ordely trnsition     t Winll give priority tob
social hesion
We tink that our motry faces a crisis wihose true lOot is social
trugh and trugh, and this is what makes it   e        in Argentine econoic hitory.
addifent *om other recent intrnatioal crise., generally limited to speoic lquidity and
solvency problems. 'The econoc, political and socal disnponl in our contry continues
pu.in he reacion and response  ty  ofeoatic nstitutions to the teat
The econoidc context
By 'Decmber g001, Argenti's economy ad aeady     ced thr
and a balf years of ression and a'G3P fal lof 12% it real teriins and of 16% in per cpita
terms, Idustial production had fAilien b-y 21% and buildg sector activity by 36. nvest-
ihtrtached:a minimm level, with a fllof 43% conpared to pre-rcession levels.
The incrase ib un   let, which today affects 21.5% of tihe
economiclly active population (as op  to an uaemployment rate of 16.4% a year ago).
has be  h key fctor triggering he inicrease of the: poo and _idigent population.
During this year, the incidence of poverty has reached ,alarming levels: there are curretly 20
illion poor pple, or 55.6% of thd popbulation  p   d to 32.6% in Oct    1998, of
which 9.6 million aie inigent. The situation is not homogeneous thDuoUt the 0ounr
-53-



whms in povines w  lie NBque, the por poplation acouni8 lb 47.5°h of ihe total
population, 6% 9ri of the                                   Airs   ae m poor.
In addition to the different tenioria impact of poverty thoughout
the country, tfe situain is also highly be gnwous as igards tOe incdence of povraty by
age gIoop. The poor population up to five years old and betweein six and twelve yeas old
accounts fIr ov  70 nd 74% ofthetotal figure respectively.
The Soda Protection Program
The economic, polical and social context imaposed the mavoid-
able resoibility of adopting emergency meure to tce all fot  at the same time, ac-
knowleding the economic sittion ad a      long-layed decisions tD enable Argentia
to ubloctk its poduction process. Macroeconomic reordering requed the adoption of fisc,
exchange monery and ttx policy measum as well as meaures regarding ihe relationship
with utility companes.
In the social field, the Governient desig  ad Emczyucy Pro-
gram to provide a respoe to the most pressing problem of the populationr poverty and mar-
Owffity,
ThI mainctio lInes ame:
1) The subsidy for Unemployed Male and Female Household Heads with Children under
Age;
2) Attending to the Food Emergency;
3) The prision of basic goods and services in the health sector.
This is supplemete by school aid and assistance meawes amed
at improving the habitat in the poorer settlements.
TMe Program for Unmpoloyed Male and Femle Household Reads
with Cbildren under Age seeks to fill the gwps Ieft by traditional social policies based, on con-
tribidons and benefits, in particlar unemployment insrance,  igilly Prograied for a
temporary unemployment situation with subsequent formal employment.
hi tdis bfamework, the Govemment has requested the financial sup-
port of the World Bank in orde to be able to face this cisis, thereby seeking to elieve the
most vulerble hougehol   fonta the. dramatic living circustances into which they have
been plmged as a result fithis cisis.
The Program for Unemployed Male and Femile Household eads
with Childr  under Ag was designed and implemented as part of a social inclusion policy in
:2
view of the serious employmet emgcy. It has also played a social Protection role, fi-
vouing public peace, which is essential for ec ic growth to resume. This is why man-
agmet criteia and mechanisms have been    pted       to make it po'iible to-address
quickly the needs of most of the neeist housebolds. There are currently 1,726,000 6mefici-
ares under the Progra, the featurs of which have been eamined in depth by dte Bank.



The Pgram for    ployed Male and Female Household Heads
with Chldren under Age was designed andmpl. nted a8 pat of a ocial incilsion polc in
a~~~~~~
view of the serious  dy;emn emergecy. t ha alo     e  a scial Pmtedion roe, fit-
vourng pb;ic peace, which is essenti  r eonomic growth to resume. This is why man-
ageinent criteria and mechanisms have beenA  t  in order  make it possible tb address
quickly the needs.of most of the neediest households Te  are cur y 1,7l26;O4 befici-
aies nder the Program, the features of wic have ben     in depthby dt Btk.
The struc     of the. Prora, which involves direct payment to
beneficiaric,6 has avoidbd fond diversions or inrdmdiation and the related costs and ineffl-
ciencies.
The Program supports and encourages social coo! of its per-
formanc trough   e creaion and ative prticipation of Consultative Councils in moiting
the allocation of benefits and t  pmodin ofd acivities in exchnge fr Pro   benefiti
The Councils are fimed by local-level civil society and NC00 representatives, with a view to
representing all sct8 .
Te Program also seeks to enhalce trnprency and publity of
all its actions, in order to ensure an efficint and ocused use of the substntial resources that
have been allocated to it
The. Programa bas foUsed t acion on houSehold fOrmed .by un-
employe adu8ts with chdrenundereighteen yars olt or woth pg    women, in ord  to
enswe educainal and heat assistance forithe most vulnerable grops.
Additioaly, both for equity reasons as well as to encourage a
wo    g        acmmuni     riented task is requi   to be performed in rtur, Alitm.a-
vely, this activity p r  i   turn may be replaced by a t ing actiiy i:n orde o com.
plete or improve ibe beneficay's education..
Actions in progress
In orider to strepgth the Program fOr Unemployed Male and Fo-
male Houshold.Heads fiom an institutional and opational point of view, based oti equity
and effi   y principles, the Economy and Labour Ministries are woring to closely coordia
nate actios i orderto:
*     hase knspvremiy add social control  of the Progrm, en4couag     th
strengUiendgof Consultative Couta s and increasins the disseminaon of Pro-
gram ntions and suls, pblihing detailed porfotmance indicators frm time to
tine.
* AmWove management sytems idn order tb reduce and remedy any filures ienti-
ledr in Program  _   tr
* To provide an expeditious budgtay and financial structure to ensure that the Pro-
gau hus the necessary resuces fo proper operation in di* tine aind ftin.
-55 -



*  Impr     and strngth  pern      arid Isults monitDri1ig and messmnei -SW
torn, adding human reources for supervision ad evauation at te Labour Minis-
try a1d caring out field anaiyss ad  rifo aciviti   tbhin the fimework
of the National Council for Sol Policy          with the active participS-
dion of $SINTS (te Federal Tax miid Socil S it    Me      n  S   ),
whic also receives World  ank fanin n       d th pticip   of the 0eneral
Audit Olice, the Federal Publio Control Network and the Govenen Attomey
Ofitce (Miniterlo PNblico Ficdl).
* To ensure fill availability of provincial social sOcurity and progam registers.
We woulv ike W  convey to you our deep recognition to the World
Bank officials and  ical peialist, who have pledged their full dediation and effots t
help Argeina design the Program and tD prepare the related applicadon for funmning of the
Program
In view of th dramatic hmana problems that are palHated trugh
the action of the Progrm  for  loyed Mle 4iid Female Household Heads with Children
under Age, we are confident that it will be given detiled attion and expeditious tatment
in order to enable prompt financing
Acordingly, an view of the neid to achieve zero net lending for
2002 and 2003 and of th neoesary'papau balance bet*en payments an dib      ts,
it seems apprpiat to fIcus the geent effots on this  gram, incug both a disb -
ment arangement for amounts spent betwem May aMd October of this year as well as ad-
vance disbursement aat ike down pyments) for the Program to devlop once the
agreement has been reachd, as we all expect will be the came.
Sincerely,
- 56 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29348
.\0                                                                                      20- -   60  5  o
-20°   l    2      BOLIVIA         !                                                        20
PARAGUAY
;~  ~   k         N         I>"etB 
%  t  ._ SA L TA; ,, _,  \^Formosa/                             -
i   > y    ;~~'1   Tuium6n  |CHA CO 8/-                                      - -
TUCU, SANTIAGO   Resistencia4>._. Posodas e
/f  L          ®s X Santiogo del stera_  fCorrientes: 
I             - Vt * _ Namrco L  r      , n 
R - \ ~      i tOJA,W   !SA NTA! 
I  J M              ENDTERO|  
-30'      U    SAN \      /             FE )     '       .. 
JUAN         ~~~~6rdobo 'at
(  @ SonJuw  I          F6t~a9APron6
iAAIE-.---ORDOBA               ENT
Q  Mendoza)\ SRan              RIOS
< > I             g RawsonSAI          n
fMENDOZ\AN:     
5A.          t     %CHUBUENOS                   A T L A NT    C
Santa Roso0
u         (              LA           AIRES
*        ~~PAM PA
)SNEUQUtN1( - - 
U      a    ) (_                            ---g                             ROVNeuqu66  OCE AN
CL             ~~~~~~RIO                                                              0
~~~ l/-40> '       "(V,i-ed.... '
40'            ~~NEGRO
SARGENTINA-
5- - - RZW        .fLLN              SAD -  -, - --- 
Rawson
CHUB UT           - a                         PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
----PROVINCE 8OUNDARIES
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES-
SANTA
FALKLAND ISLANDS
50' ~~~~N-(MALVINAS)
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS,
A DrPLfl CONaCtRkJNSOVEWCGOVERHI THE
ISLANDS EYJSTS MWEiWtIARGENnth.4A~Q WIiC CLVMI 
MS SOVEiSGNMYANISTtHEWwANaRs  0  100  200  300 AO400 Miles6
-This map was produced by the Mop Design Unit of The Worl Bank  - 
The boundaries, colors, denominations ond anyother info'rmation sto-n
T/ER R A               on this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bonk Group any,
.0'                  .: .DEL FUEGO           judgment on the legal status of any territy or any endorement or
;  -  *  *  .   -   .   -   ~   acceptonce of such boundaries.
i .   '         .   -                                               I 0   . '   . 
APRIL 1998









IMAGING
Report No.:         23710  AR
Type:     PAD



