Report No. 23532
Report No: I073578 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/11/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ARGENTINA       Project ID: P073578
Project: AR Social Protection VI         Task Team Leader: Theresa Jones
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 5, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 350.00
Bank Approval: May 21, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHS     Sector: SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project would support the fourth phase of Trabajar, a social safety
net self-targeted to poor households. Through the construction and
rehabilitation of small infrastructure facilities and the execution of
productive projects (on a pilot basis), the program contributes to
improvements in the living standards of the communities where the
sub-projects are located and creates temporary employment for poor
workers.
The project builds on the experience of the Social Protection I-III
Projects. The Social Protection I Project safeguarded critical social
programs, including the first phase of Trabajar, during the 1995-96
tequila crisis. The Social Protection II-III Projects financed the
continuation of the Trabajar program during 1997-2001. These projects
shared the objective of supporting improvements in the Trabajar program,
particularly in the areas of targeting, transparency of implementation
procedures, the quality of sub-projects, and evaluation, which have wide
applicability to other social programs in Argentina. The Social
Protection II Project (Loan 41950-AR) closed as scheduled on June 30, 1999
and received a satisfactory rating in the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and from OED. The Social Protection III Project is due to close on
June 30, 2002 and has had a satisfactory ranking during implementation.
I.A.3. Project Description:
1. Subprojects. These will be small projects (less than $75,000 in most
localities; less than $200,000 in large metropolitan areas) of economic
and social infrastructure, as well as in the poorest areas, small projects
for productive activities, sponsored mainly by either municipalities or
nongovernmental organizations.
2. Project Administration. This would include the costs to the national
government of administering the project, including financial charges for
processing payments to beneficiaries, providing technical assistance,
supervising program implementation at the local level, preparing progress
reports, including the agreed indicators, computers and operational
expenses such as travel and per diems.



3. Monitoring and Evaluation. This would include an evaluation of the
impact of the projects financed under Trabajar in the community,
beneficiary assessments, and the monitoring of the beneficiary selection
process.
Components:
Subprojects
Project Administration
Monitoring and Evaluation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The TRABAJAR program can finance projects nationwide, and as this is a
demand-driven project, it is not known at this time what projects will be
financed where. However, projects will not be financed in protected
areas, and checklists used during project preparation and evaluation
should ensure that projects are not implemented in fragile or critical
natural habitats.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project requires an environmental assessment, which has been completed
and submitted to the Infoshop and disclosed on the TRABAJAR program's web
site. The Trabajar subprojects to be financed under the Loan are expected
to remain small (under $75,000). Most of the environmental impacts should
be predictable and subsequently avoided or mitigated with common
practices. Checklists and other environmental tools have been
incorporated into the evaluation methodology. The description of the
-2 -



methodology together with forms, etc. is included in the Operational
Manual. Environmental considerations are also incorporated into promotion
and supervision activities.
An environmental assessment was carried out in late 2001. For the
assessment 110 sub-projects which had been financed under the Trabajar
Program under the Third Social Protection Project were visited.
Discussions were held with the individuals involved in the processing and
implementation of the projects, and whenever possible, beneficiaries of
the projects were interviewed as well. The objective of the assessment
was to determine to what extent the projects had an impact on the
environment and how effectively mitigating measures had been applied
during project execution. In addition, the assessment reviewed the
screening and scoping procedures for potential environmental impacts
within the project cycle of the Trabajar Program; the adequacy of the
evaluation process in incorporating environmental considerations into
project design; and the extent to which environmental aspects of the
sub-projects had been supervised adequately during implementation.
Specifically the following aspects were reviewed for each project: the
consistency between actual conditions in the field and supporting
documentation, risks that existed, management of the activities related to
water, soils, contamination sites, efforts to improve environmental
conditions, and the relative importance of environmental aspects. At the
same time the capacity of the various actors involved in the process -
sponsoring agencies, evaluators and supervisors was reviewed. The results
of the assessment showed that about half of the projects had some impact
on the environment and about half showed no impact. Of those that had an
environmental impact, slightly over 60 percent had applied adequate
mitigating measures, about a quarter were deficient and about 10 percent
had not applied any mitigating measures. About 20 percent of projects had
a positive impact on the environment. In general, the most common impact
of the sub-projects is the increase in the volume of residual waters
caused by the larger number of users in a facility, especially the
projects that increased capacity of schools, health centers, and community
centers. Another issue associated with the increase in the number of
users is related to the adequacy of sanitary facilities. There were some
projects which had not included this activity in the activities and as a
result problems ensued. The main recommendation of the assessment is that
project evaluation criteria be modified to ensure that future projects
incorporate necessary increases in water supply and sanitary facilities to
deal with the increase in usage of the facility.
In addition, to implementing the recommendation described above, the
Trabajar program will also improve upon its current environmental
evaluation system by creating separate environmental checklists for each
type of subproject that the program will finance. Each checklist will
have sections for the various stages of the project cycle: preparation,
evaluation, and supervision. These documents will be reviewed by the Bank
during project appraisal. In addition, the appraisal mission and Trabajar
staff will meet with the Ministry of Environment and other pertinent line
ministries to confirm that Trabajar subprojects meet national
environmental standards, to understand the full legal framework for
environmental issues in Argentina, and to establish a relationship between
the Trabajar program and appropriate line ministries.
- 3 -



II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
The only safeguard policy triggered is EA, so cumulative effects from the
applicatoin of more than one safeguard policy is not envisaged.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Borrower has already completed an EA for the project, which has
determined that the environmental screening and evaluation system
currently in place for TRABAJAR subprojects is adequate, but that
checklists on environmental issues used for subproject preparation and
evaluation could be improved. The Bank appraisal mission will review the
checklists and make recommendations accordingly.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are poor workers, municipalities and non-governmental
organizations. The Trabajar program has used a demand-driven mechanism to
select sub-projects since its establishment by the Government in 1996.
The share of organizations of civil society sponsoring sub-projects was
slightly above 20% during Trabajar III.   During the preparation of
previous projects as well as during supervision, visits have been made to
about half of the provinces participating in the program (and all of those
accounting for a signficiant share of resources) to discuss the program
with municipal authorities, NGOs, and beneficiaries. Discussions with
municipalities, organizations of civil society and beneficiaries have also
taken place during preparation of the social assessments and as part of
the management of the program by the project coordination unit.
Municipalities and non-governmental organizations participate in the
project by sponsoring and implementing projects which employ poor workes
during their execution.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
- 4 -



F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      2/20/2002       2/21/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 3/6/2002          3/7/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   3/7/2002         3/7/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Theresa Jones   03/08/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Karla J. McEvoy 03/08/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         03/08/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Ana-Maria Arriagada      03/08/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



