Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7157-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection VI Project - JEFES DE HOGAR)  
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7157-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 2003, between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “
Arg
$”
means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(b) “EPH” 
means 
Encuesta Permanente de Hogares
,
a
biannual national 
household survey carried out by the Borrower;  
(c) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“JEFES DE HOGAR Program” means the Borrower’s program 
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 565, dated April 3, 2002; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“Lecops” means the bonds (
letras de cancelación de obligaciones 
provinciales
)
issued pursuant to the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 1004/01 of 
August 9, 2001; 
(f) 
“Ministry of Labor” means the Borrower’s 
Ministerio de Trabajo, 
Empleo y Seguridad Social;
 
(g) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date with this Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;  
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement; 
(i) 
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Remuneration for Temporary Workers” means the remuneration for 
temporary employment provided in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual to Temporary Workers (as hereinafter defined) under the JEFES DE HOGAR 
Program, subject to the limitation set forth in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) “SE” 
means 
Secretaría 
de
Empleo
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Employment within the Ministry of Labor (as hereinafter defined); 
(l) 
“Selected Municipalities” means any of the 1,100 municipalities within 
the Borrower’s territory which may be considered eligible to enter into a Subproject 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual;  
(m) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Subprojects” means: (i) small infrastructure projects including 
rehabilitation, expansion and new construction for schools, health centers, basic 
sanitation facilities, small roads and bridges, culverts and small canals, community 
kitchens, tourist centers, low-cost housing; (ii) community services, including the 
completion of the basic education cycle; and (iii) productive activities (those supporting 
increase in production or value-added for agricultural activities, such as the acquisition of 
crop machinery and small-scale processing equipment), eligible for financing under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR Program in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and 
(p) 
“Temporary Workers” means any unemployed individuals who may be 
considered eligible to participate under the JEFES DE HOGAR Program, pursuant to the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six hundred 
million Dollars ($600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación Argentina
 on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
Page  5
-
4
-
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
Page  6
-
5
-
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each four 
consecutive Interest Periods shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and to this end shall carry out the Project, through SE, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, labor and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: 
 (a) 
 procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
procurement of goods under Part A of the Project shall be limited to 
Subprojects that meet the following criteria: the Subprojects (i) are located in one of the 
Selected Municipalities; (ii) are of the types listed in Section 1.02 (m) of this Agreement; 
(iii) cost no more than $35,000 equivalent; and (iv) require the procurement of goods in 
an aggregate amount of less than $12,000 equivalent.  
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of assisting 
SE
 in the overall management of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within 
SE
,
a
project management unit (PMU) with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Bank and staffed with managers and other personnel in number and with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through 
SE
,
shall: (a) ensure that the wage rates 
applicable to the services of Temporary Workers employed under the Subprojects shall 
not exceed 
Arg
$150 per month; and (b) in close consultation with the Bank, review said 
amount twice a year taking into consideration data provided by the EPH, and adjust as 
necessary in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.06.  (a) Without limitation of the provisions of  Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through 
SE
,
shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
eligibility criteria, detailed rules, and procedures for the selection of Subprojects; (ii) the 
eligibility criteria for selecting Temporary Workers; (iii) the methodology to be used in 
the evaluation of the Subprojects; and (iv) mandatory safeguard policies applying to 
Subprojects, particularly regarding the environmental assessment that each Subproject 
must undergo and the safeguard and mitigation actions that shall be carried out for any 
such Subprojects which could have a possible negative environmental impact such as, in 
particular, through use of any pesticide, increased deforestation, pollution of 
groundwater, impacts on endangered species, increased pesticide level in food, increased 
soil erosion, impact on parks and protected areas, or encroachment on natural habitats. 
 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
SE
,
shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, or any provision 
thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of 
the Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of carrying out activities requiring the financing 
of materials under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:  
(a) 
after having selected a Subproject, following the procedures established 
in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement (the Subproject Agreement) with a 
Selected Municipality for the financing of materials required under the Subproject, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under any Subproject 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
Page  8
-
7
-
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement, or 
any provision thereof. 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower, through the PMU, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and taking into account the 
Monitoring Indicators; 
 
(b) 
by August 15 and February 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank a semi-annual report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall request, and based on the monitoring and evaluation carried out pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress of the Project during the six-month period 
preceding the date of such report; 
 
(c) 
include in the progress report to be furnished to the Bank by February 15, 
2003 pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, a report on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project since its beginning and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; 
and 
 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
may request, the progress report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.09. 
The Borrower shall update the existing information system 
within 
SE
,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, said information system to include a 
registry of the Temporary Workers employed under the JEFES DE HOGAR Program, as 
to ensure that each Temporary Worker meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, and is linked with the activities performed by said Temporary 
Worker under a specific Subproject.  
 
Section 3.10. 
The Borrower shall conduct a mid-term review with the Bank, 
by not later than: (i) June 30, 2003; or (ii) 30 days after withdrawals from the Loan 
Account have reached fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the Loan, whichever occurs 
first, of the progress of the Project, based on an assessment with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, as well as the reports referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.08 the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date. Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the information system referred to in Section 3.09 of this 
Agreement has been updated in manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 5.02. 
The date of  April 29, 2003  is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable address:   
  
   Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA    121942-AR 
     (5411) 
 
Baires 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Roberto Lavagna  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti  
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
   Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
to be 
 Category
Dollars
)
Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
14,500,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and  
 
95%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2)  Office equipment and 
 1,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 supplies 
 
expenditures 
and 
 
50%
of local 
 
expenditures. 
 
(3)  Goods and services for Subprojects: 
 
(a) Remuneration for 
478,500,000 
90% 
 
Temporary Workers 
 
(b)  Goods for Subprojects (excluding 
food):  
 
(i) located in Selected  
60,000,000 
50% 
 Municipalities with 
 population below 100,000  
 inhabitants 
 
 
 
(ii) located in Selected 
40,000,000 
80% 
 
Municipalities with 
 
population below 50,000 
 
inhabitants (not covered by Sub- 
 
category (b) (i) above) 
 
 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
   Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
to be 
 Category
Dollars
)
Financed
(4)  Premia for Interest 
-0-                    
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
under Section  
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(5)  Front-end fee 
6,000,000 
Amount due  
 
under Section 
 
2.04
of
the  
 
Loan Agreement
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
600,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $120,000,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 
2002, but not earlier than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Remuneration for Temporary 
Workers under Part A of the Project; (b)  goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
less per contract; (c) goods under contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, except for the first 
two of such contracts; (d) consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; and (e) individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14
-
5. 
The Bank and the Borrower shall consult on a periodic basis throughout 
implementation of the Project (at the request of either party), on the use, value and 
treatment of Lecops in the Borrower's economy.  Unless the Bank otherwise notifies the 
Borrower (as a result of said consultations or at any other time), and notwithstanding any 
provision to the contrary in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions or the 
Operational Manual, withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made under 
disbursement category (3) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on 
account of eligible expenditures incurred by the Borrower in Lecops.  Such withdrawals 
shall be made in Loan Currency amounts equivalent to one Arg$ per nominal one Arg$ 
face value of the Lecops, or in Loan Currency amounts calculated by applying any other 
Arg$ to Lecops face value rate as the Bank may reasonably determine.  The Bank, at the 
request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account Arg$ as shall be required to meet incurred eligible 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce poverty and to improve economic and 
social infrastructure facilities and services in the Borrower’s territory, through the support 
of the JEFES DE HOGAR Program, a social safety net self-targeted to poor households. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
JEFES DE HOGAR Program
Execution of Subprojects. 
Part B
:
Project Administration
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Labor carry out the JEFES DE 
HOGAR Program through the provision of technical assistance, necessary goods and 
operational expenses. 
Part C
:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of SE to monitor and evaluate the Project and related 
programs through the provision of specialized technical assistance. 
Part D
:
Supervision
Carrying out the supervision of the implementation of the JEFES DE HOGAR 
Program at the municipal level. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2004. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Payment 
Date
(Installment Share
Expressed as a %)
April 15, 2008 
4.08% 
 
October 15, 2008 
4.22% 
 
April 15, 2009 
4.37% 
 
October 15, 2009 
4.53% 
 
April 15, 2010 
4.68% 
 
October 15, 2010 
4.85% 
 
April 15, 2011 
5.02% 
 
October 15, 2011 
5.19% 
 
April 15, 2012 
5.37% 
 
October 15, 2012 
5.56% 
 
April 15, 2013 
5.76% 
 
October 15, 2013 
5.96% 
 
April 15, 2014 
6.17% 
 
October 15, 2014 
6.38% 
 
April 15, 2015 
6.61% 
 
October 15, 2015 
6.84% 
 
April 15, 2016 
7.08% 
 
October 15, 2016 
7.33% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
Page  18
-
17
-
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, but more 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of  $100,000 or less per contract, but more 
than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$90,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods costing the equivalent of $5,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed of $10,000,000, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to the first two contracts or bid packages for goods procured 
under Part B.1 of this Section, 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
The following provision shall
 apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:   
 
(a) 
Contracts with a total duration of six months or more shall be advertised 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not cancel,  
waive or fail to enforce any contract procured under this Part C.2. 
 
Part D
:
Employment of Temporary Workers under Subprojects.
Procurement of the services of Temporary Workers under Part A of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
the Operational Manual. 
Part E
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Page  22
-
21
-
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidel
ines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 or less, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval and the contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $60,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  24
-
23
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  25
-
24
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  26
-
25
-
wb202290 
M:\ARGENTIN\738 - Social Protection VI\738-AR.doc 
January 28, 2003 2:43 PM
 
