                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: ICR355




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (Loan 073578)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION

                                           TO

                              THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                        FOR THE

                JEFES DE HOGAR (HEADS OF HOUSEHOLD) PROGRAM


                                    September 27, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
       (Exchange Rate Effective September 10, 2007)

                 Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                      AR$1.00 = US$0.32

                     FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 ­ December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGN         National Audit Agency (Auditoría General de la Nación)
ATM         Automatic Teller Machine
CCT         Conditional Cash Transfer
CIC         Integrated Community Center
CODEM       Commission on Fraud in Employment Programs (Comisión para
            Denuncias en Programas de Empleo)
CSO         Civil Society Organization
EPH         Permanent Household Survey (Encuesta Permanente de
            Hogares)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MDS         Ministry of Social Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo
            Social)
MIS         Management Information System
MTEySS      Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security
            (Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social)
NBI         Unmet Basic Needs (Necesidades Básicas Insatisfechas)
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAT         Poor Area Targeting
PJH         Heads of Household Program (Programa Jefes y Jefas de
            Hogar Desocupados)
PDO         Project Development Objectives
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
QEA         Quality at Entry Assessment
SCE         Employment and Traning Insurance (Seguro de Capacitación
            y Empleo)
UFISES      Unidad Fiscal de Investigaciones de la Seguridad Social
            (Prosecutor's Office in the Social Security Administration)


              Vice President:        Pamela Cox
           Country Director:         Pedro Alba
             Sector Manager:         Helena Ribe
          Task Team Leader:          Bénédicte Leroy de la Brière

                                                               ARGENTINA

  JEFES DE HOGAR (HEADS OF HOUSEHOLD) PROGRAM PROJECT
                                               SOCIAL PROTECTION VI


                                                                CONTENTS

Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................................1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................................6
3.   Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................................16
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................28
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance Bank Performance................................................28
6.   Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application).........................................31
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................................33
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................................................34
Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................................................35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)................................47
Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................................48
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (December 2006)....................................................48
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................................49
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .....................................................63
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................................64
MAP............................................................................................................................................................67




                                                                           i

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Social Protection VI
Country:                Argentina             Project Name:          Project - Jefes de Hogar
                                                                     (Heads of Household)
Project ID:             P073578               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-71570
ICR Date:               09/28/2007            ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                     ARGENTINE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 600.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 600.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministerio de Trabajo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/04/2001    Effectiveness:       01/31/2003          01/31/2003
Appraisal:             03/11/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/28/2003    Mid-term Review:                         12/04/2003
                                     Closing:             07/31/2004          07/28/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               2                 2
Other social services                                          97                97
Sub-national government administration                          1                 1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Social safety nets                                            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Pedro Alba                       Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:          Helena G. Ribe                    Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project Team Leader:      Theresa Jones                    Theresa Jones
ICR Team Leader:          Benedicte Leroy De La Briere
ICR Primary Author:      Benedicte Leroy De La Briere



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Support a social safety net program which, through financing for small infrastructure and
productive activities, maintenance, and community services provides temporary
employment to poor workers and improves the living standards in poor communities

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no revisions to the Project's Development Objectives.




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Net benefit to workers

Value                                                                          2/3 benefit

quantitative or n/a                        No target value set N/A             (12/2002)

Qualitative)                               in PAD.                             1/3 benefit
                                                                               (06/2003)
Date achieved 11/30/2002                   01/31/2003          12/31/2003      06/30/2003

Comments        The program impact declined with the economic recovery since wages outside

(incl. %        the Program were increasing and the level of compliance with workfare

achievement)    decreased as beneficiaries were increasingly pulled into the informal labor
                market.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of workfare sub-projects with materials co-financing

Value                                                                          2000 (12/2002)

(quantitative   0                          7000                9000            4708 (06/2005)

or Qualitative)                                                                5,827 (06/2006)

Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003          12/31/2004      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Eighty percent of the projects consisted of relevant infrastructure and the works

achievement)    were of good quality.

Indicator 2 :   Number of beneficiaries hired on projects with materials co-financing
Value                                                                          31,175 (12/2003);
(quantitative   0                          200,000             260,000         108,991 (12/2004)
or Qualitative)                                                                122,409 (12/2005)
Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003          12/31/2004      12/31/2005

Comments        Workers were Heads of Household beneficiaries, who already knew some

(incl. %        construction. Although difficulties in ensuring participation led some

achievement)    municipalities to also use other workers, the works did improve the physical
                infrastructure of public services.
Indicator 3 :   % workfare subprojects with materials co-financing completed satisfactorily
Value
(quantitative   0                          80%                 85%             80% (12/2004);

or Qualitative)                                                                78% (07/2006)

Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003          12/31/2004      07/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %



                                                iii

achievement)
Indicator 4 :  % of beneficiaries fulfilling work/training requirements
                                                                              70% (10/2002)

Value                                                                         61% (EPH

(quantitative  n/a                         90%                 90%            12/2003)

or Qualitative)                                                               56% (EPH
                                                                              12/2004)

Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003          12/31/2004     12/31/2004

Comments       As the emergency subsided, workfare became less relevant, since other

(incl. %       employment opportunities appeared and the organization of sufficient long-term,

achievement)   meaningful workfare activities remained extremely difficult for many
               municipalities.

Indicator 5 :  Number of supervision visits to municipalities to check both beneficiary
               registration information and workfare activities

Value                                                                         1,050 (12/2002)

(quantitative  0                           1,500               2,100          1,512(12/2003)

or Qualitative)                                                               1,250(12/2004)
                                                                              1,387 (12/2005)
Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003          12/31/2004     12/31/2005

Comments       The supervision of municipalities improved since May 2003 with improvements

(incl. %       in the methodology of checking files (random sampling with lists provided

achievement)   centrally to supervisors). In 2005, they visited 1,387 municipalities covering half
               of the beneficiaries.
Indicator 6 :  % beneficiaries with complete registration information
Value                                                                         72% (12/2003)
(quantitative  n/a                         100%                100%           75% (12/2004)
or Qualitative)                                                               75% (12/2005)
Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003          12/31/2004     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Targeting performance: participants from bottom 40% of income distribution
Value
(quantitative  n/a                         n/a                                82% (10/2002)

or Qualitative)                                                               80% (05/2003)

Date achieved 09/30/2002                   01/31/2003                         05/31/2003
Comments       The Program was successful in reaching the poor and mitigating the impact of
(incl. %       the social and economic crisis. With 80% of benefits to the poorest 40% and 1/3
achievement)   of the poorest 20% covered, it has one of the best targeting in the region.

Indicator 8 :  Targeting of infrastructure: inter-department targeting differential towards the
               poor in subprojects with materials co-financing
Value
(quantitative  n/a                         n/a                                $ 85 per capita

or Qualitative)                                                               (12/2005)

Date achieved 11/30/2002                   12/31/2003                         12/31/2005
Comments       Pro-poor targeting of these subprojects was good overall but with a high
(incl. %       heterogeneity within provinces.



                                               iv

achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                    IP         Disbursements
                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/19/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          260.28
  2    12/19/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          352.08
  3    12/22/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          352.08
  4    12/22/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          352.08
  5    06/16/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          464.71
  6    09/15/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          504.30
  7    12/22/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory          569.27
  8    04/29/2005  Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory          594.77
  9    08/22/2006  Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory          600.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal:

The Economic and Social Crisis of 2001/2002

The deep economic, social and governance crisis in Argentina brought the country to the brink of collapse
in 2002. After four years of recession, the economic and social crisis was entrenched. Poverty had shot-
up: in May 2002, over 50 percent of the urban population had fallen below the poverty line, the rate of
unemployment had increased to 21.5 percent, overall, and to above 40 percent for poor, unskilled
workers. Key indicators of well-being, such as the infant mortality rate, deteriorated for the first time in
30 years. The crisis also affected negatively the delivery of basic services and infrastructure to the poor,
who reduced their consumption of public services significantly. Many fell behind in paying their bills.
About 12 percent of the population lost their health insurance coverage and 70 percent of families had to
reduce their expenditures in education supplies.        With the collapse of public confidence came a
governance crisis. In late 2001 and early 2002, several governments fell in rapid succession. Popular
protests were widespread.

In spite of allocating a relatively large share of its budget to social spending, Argentina did not have an
effective safety net - one that offered protection from key risks to the principal vulnerable groups. In the
absence of an integrated response, many smaller, often uncoordinated programs attempted to target very
specific groups. The significant participation of provincial (and to some extent municipal) governments
resulted in many overlaps, inconsistencies and inefficiencies. While the previous workfare program,
Trabajar, had been very effective in reaching the poor, in years prior to the crisis funding had declined.

Government response to the crisis: The Heads of Household Program

The Government's main response to the social emergency was to create a massive emergency workfare
program to expand financial support to families in danger of economic deprivation. In April 2002, the
Government launched the Heads of Household Program (Programa Jefes de Hogar- PJH) and took it to
scale very quickly: to 574,000 beneficiaries in May 2002 and to nearly 2 million beneficiaries in May
2003. The Program transferred AR$150.00 (currently US$48.00) per month to beneficiaries that were
supposed to meet the following criteria:

    · Be unemployed;
    · Be the head of a household;
    · Live in a household with at least one minor below the age of 18, or pregnant woman or
        handicapped of any age; and
    · Work or participate in training/education activities for 4 to 6 hours a day (no less than 20 hours a
        week) in exchange for the payment.

Design of the Program

Responsibilities were distributed as follows:

    o The National Government established the Program and its legal framework (initially only for
        2002, and thereafter, extended on an annual basis) with an emergency presidential decree,
        including enrollment forms and eligibility criteria.




                                                       1

    o The Ministry of Labor oversaw the implementation of the Program, consolidated information on
         beneficiary enrollments and workfare activities, ensured the quality of the beneficiary registry,
         and provided payment instructions for direct payment to beneficiaries through the National Social
         Security Administration and the banking system.

    o Municipalities enrolled beneficiaries, reviewed the documentation proving eligibility and
         maintained beneficiary files, and organized and supervised workfare activities. If beneficiaries
         were not able to enroll at the municipality, they could enroll through recognized bodies:
         provincial offices of the Ministry of Labor, civil society organizations (CSOs) such as unions,
         organizations of the unemployed, and church groups.

    o Local Consultative Councils, required by the Program, comprised the mayor, as well as
         representatives of public service providers, workers, businesses, churches, and CSOs. They were
         to approve the proposals for workfare activities, provide information and resolve complaints on
         beneficiary registration.    Local councils were also responsible for taking action when a
         beneficiary did not meet the eligibility criteria.     A national consultative council was also
         established, comprising three representatives from each of the following sectors: businesses, labor
         unions, civil society organizations, religious groups, and the National Government. Its envisaged
         role was wide-ranging, incorporating functions of monitoring, control, development of new
         policies, oversight of training activities, establishment of an external evaluation of the Program,
         contributing to the dissemination of information, and reporting periodically to the President on
         these activities.

    o The National Social Security Administration provided the monthly payments by transferring
         resources to commercial banks, after cross-checking against rolls of formal employment (those
         making social contributions), pensions, unemployment insurance and other social programs to
         identify individuals that did not comply with specific eligibility criteria.

    o Banks paid beneficiaries directly at first at banks' counters and then, starting June 2004, through
         debit cards at ATMs.

The Bank, recognizing the relevance of the Program, helped finance part of the workfare and, building on
earlier analytical and operational work on unemployment issues and social protection, helped support and
especially strengthen the Program's monitoring and evaluation, make management more transparent, and
improve its governance.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

There were four reasons for the Bank to support the Government in the rapid implementation of the
Heads of Household Program. First, the Bank had been working closely with the Government since 1995
on improvements in workfare programs, particularly during the implementation of the Trabajar program
(Social Protection Projects I-III, Loans. 3957-AR, 4195-AR, and 4366-AR). These projects shared the
objective of supporting improvements in the targeting mechanism, transparency arrangements, quality of
sub-projects, and the design of evaluation systems. Several features of the operation of the Heads of
Household Program were similar to Trabajar, but some aspects changed in order to respond better to the
social crisis. For example, implementation was more decentralized; non-governmental organizations
played a greater role in both Program execution and monitoring; and the list of eligible workfare activities
expanded. The Heads of Household Project built on the experience of the Second and Third Social
Protection Projects.




                                                        2

Second, the Government and the Bank had carried out several analytical tasks which formed the basis for
the roll-out strategy of the Heads of Household Program. This included analytical work which had
identified the key vulnerable groups in Argentina as: poor children, the elderly without pension coverage,
and the poor unemployed. The Heads of Household Program targeted the first and third of those groups -
the poor unemployed with dependents under the age of 18. During the previous Social Protection
Projects' implementation, the Government and the Bank had undertaken joint targeting analysis and
evaluations to assess the impact of these programs. The Bank was to continue supporting evaluation
under the Heads of Household Project, particularly in the area of assessing the targeting and measuring
the impact of the Program in the communities, and more importantly would continue working closely
with the Government to improve the Program's governance, transparency and accountability mechanisms.

Third, Bank assistance to the Heads of Household Program built on earlier efforts to help mitigate the
increased poverty and mounting unemployment and to improve the efficiency of social spending in
Argentina. The increased pressure on all social programs, coupled with the social unrest in the country,
made it critical to support measures to improve the fairness of the selection of beneficiaries, ensure
transparent management, and ensure that spending reached the neediest.

Fourth, the loan was an important instrument to provide resources for Argentina during the financial crisis
in which debt payments, including those to the Bank, were significantly larger than disbursements. Since
Argentina was cut-off from access to the international financial markets, it was heavily reliant upon
multilateral lenders. A significant resource transfer was, therefore, an important aspect of the Bank's
financing for the Heads of Household Project -- not only based on the needs of the Program as assessed
by the Bank, but also as a demonstration of support from the Bank at a critical time for Argentina.

As implementation of the Project proceeded, the Bank also actively supported the definition and initial
implementation of the transition process of the Program, which includes (a) providing additional support
to beneficiaries to find employment; and (b) moving those beneficiaries still requiring assistance but for
whom a workfare program was not necessarily appropriate (for example, mothers with several young
children) to other programs. Under (a) this included, among other activities, the provision of financing
through the Project for adult education materials and initial promotion and support to municipal
employment offices.


1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved):

PDO (PAD Annex 1): The Project would support the workfare part of the Heads of Household Program,
a social safety net launched by the Government of Argentina in April 2002 to alleviate the impact of
rising employment due to the sharp worsening of the economic crisis. Through community services, the
construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of small infrastructure facilities, and the execution of
productive projects (on a pilot basis), the workfare component of the Heads of Household Program would
provide temporary employment to poor workers and improve the living standards in poor communities.




                                                     3

Table 1: Key indicators for the Heads of Household Project

Indicators
Upper-level/Sector         Extreme Poverty (headcount),
indicators                 Unemployment

Impact indicator:          Net benefit to workers

Output indicators          Number of workfare Subprojects w/materials co-financing
                           Number of beneficiaries hired on projects with materials co-financing;
                           Percent of workfare Subprojects w/materials co-financing completed satisfactorily
                           Percent of beneficiaries fulfilling work/training requirements
                           Number of supervision visits to municipalities to check both beneficiary registration
                           information and workfare activities.
                           Targeting performance: % of participants coming from bottom 40%/20% of income
                           distribution
                           Extent of pro-poor targeting in projects with materials co-financing; Inter-departmental
                           targeting differential towards the poor

Annex 2 lists the indicators and the target values that were specified in the PAD for some of them.


1.3      Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification:

There were no revisions to the Project's Development Objectives.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries (original and revised; briefly describe the "the primary target group"
identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations
expected to benefit from the project):

Through the community services, small investments, and rehabilitation/maintenance subprojects, financed
under the Heads of Household Program, the Project aimed to provide temporary financial assistance to
poor unemployed workers with dependents, and improve social and economic infrastructure and services
in poor communities, thereby raising living standards.

The number of Program participants rose from 574,000 in May 2002 to 1,857,000 by the end of 2002,
reached its peak at 1,991,000 in May 2003 when it reached 20 percent of all households in Argentina and
has declined steadily ever since. This growth exceeded by 40 percent the original Bank estimated target
population (1.4 million poor households with an unemployed head and minors) as defined by the
Presidential decree establishing the Program.

At appraisal, it was estimated that the Bank would finance about 60 percent of the total number of
workfare participants over the life of the Project. The Bank-financed Project also would provide partial
financing of materials for between 8-10,000 workfare subprojects. Given the Program's rapid expansion
and the actual pace of loan disbursements, the Project financed only about 20 percent of all workfare
participants, all with proof of eligibility and compliance.

1.5      Original Components (as approved):

1. Subprojects (US$1,942.0 million Total Project Cost, US$578.5 million Loan Financing). The menu
    of projects eligible for financing by the Heads of Household Program included community services,



                                                          4

     minor construction, repair, expansion, maintenance or remodeling of schools, health facilities, basic
     sanitation facilities, small roads and bridges, and on a pilot basis, some productive activities.
     Subprojects were to be sponsored mainly by either municipalities or nongovernmental organizations.
     Originally, two types of subprojects were envisaged. For the first (a) the Project was to finance a
     share of the cost of materials as well as beneficiary payments; for the second (b) it was to finance
     only the payments to beneficiaries. As originally stipulated, for (a) projects, in poor areas (with a
     population under 50,000) with an Unmet Basic Needs Index (NBI) of over 30 percent, comprising
     nearly 500 municipalities, the Project was to finance up to 80 percent of the cost of materials, up to a
     specified limit (US$10,000 for productive activities, and US$12,000 for all other eligible activities).
     For other municipalities with a population of 100,000 or less (covering about 1,100 municipalities)
     the Project was to finance up to half the cost of materials, again up to a set limit (US$12,000 for all
     activities).

2. Project Administration (US$25 million Total Project Cost, US$8.25 million Loan Financing). This
     included the costs to the national government of administering the Project, including financial charges
     for processing payments to beneficiaries, providing technical assistance, preparing progress reports,
     computers and operational expenses such as travel and per diems.

3. Supervision (US$12 million Total Project Cost, US$6 million Loan Financing). This included the
     cost of supervising the implementation of the Program at the municipal level. Municipalities were to
     be supervised periodically to ensure that they had the supporting documentation that established
     beneficiaries' eligibility for the Program. In addition, the activities in which beneficiaries were
     participating were to be supervised, at least twice for subprojects that received materials financing,
     and on a sample basis for other activities. Provincial staff of the Ministry of Labor was to undertake
     the supervision, with complementary visits from the national level. Both municipal and provincial
     councils were also to play a role in supervising the Program at the local level.

4. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2 million Total Project Cost, US$1.25 million Loan Financing)1.
     This included evaluations of the targeting performance of the Heads of Household Program and of the
     impact of the subprojects financed in the communities, ex-post evaluations of subprojects' quality,
     beneficiary assessments and monitoring of Program implementation according to the agreed
     indicators.

1.6      Revised Components:

There were no revisions of the Project's components.

1.7      Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations):

Amendments

The first amendment (September 2003) introduced new categories of sub-projects with materials
financing (for type (a), as explained above in Section 1.5). At the Government's request, through the
first amendment to the Loan Agreement (September 2003), three changes were made: first, the restriction
on the size of municipality that could receive co-financing for materials was eliminated; second, the
amendment differentiated the share of financing to be provided for materials (either 80 or 60 percent)
based on the type of subproject, instead of the previous distinction based on the size and Unmet Basic
Needs category of the municipality; and, third, the share of financing for those subprojects eligible for the

1The remaining US$ 6 million represented the front-end fee for a total of US$ 600 million.


                                                       5

lower of the two co-financing rates was raised from 50 to 60 percent. The objectives in making the
changes were to expand the number of municipalities eligible to receive financing for materials for
subprojects and to make the financing for higher value projects (schools, health centers and water
projects) more attractive, thereby improving the quality of the workfare activities. Given the number of
beneficiaries in the Heads of Household Program and scarce resources, municipalities had found it
difficult to finance infrastructure or rehabilitation workfare subprojects.

The second amendment, in February 2004, modified the Project in order to respond positively to
the Borrower's request to use up to $30 million of the Loan to finance the cost of tools, equipment
and inputs for productive subprojects proposed by small groups of the Program's beneficiaries.
The Project originally included materials, on a pilot basis, for subprojects in poor rural areas, to support
increases in production or value added for agricultural activities, proposed by municipalities or non-
governmental organizations. With the modification agreed under the amendment, the eligible activities
were broadened and could be carried out in any municipality in Argentina, and were to be proposed by
groups of no less than 3 current beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program, through the
municipality. Eligible activities included the following:       increase in production or value-added for
agriculture, livestock or fishing; production of inputs and equipment for manufacturing and of
construction materials; manufacturing of products for final consumption; and provisions of services
related to agriculture, commerce, as well as restaurants, childcare, care of the elderly, etc. The maximum
value of the equipment, materials and inputs for which financing could be requested was US$5,000, of
which 80 percent were eligible to be covered by loan proceeds. Also, the Ministry of Labor, the
implementing agency for the Heads of Household Program and the Project, signed an agreement
delegating responsibility for the activities related to these subprojects to the Ministry of Social
Development.

Extensions of Closing Date

Disbursements under the expenditure categories of goods for subprojects started late and were slow,
reflecting the difficulties in coordination between national and municipal governments and in
implementation by municipalities (see Section 2.2). The second amendment to the Loan Agreement, in
February 2004, extended the Closing Date to December 31, 2004. On July 30, 2004, the Closing Date
was extended until June 30, 2005 and funds were reallocated from the categories of goods for subprojects
and consultant services to the category of remuneration for temporary workers. On March 16, 2005 the
Closing Date was extended until December 31, 2005; on November 10, 2005 until April 30, 2006; and
finally, on April 26, 2006, until July 28, 2006.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier operations
were taken into account, risks and their mitigation identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as
applicable):

Lessons of Earlier Bank-Financed Projects and Analytical Work

In the context of the crisis, the Bank team, familiar with the country and its institutions, effectively
incorporated the information of existing analysis2 and the lessons learnt from the Bank-financed Social
Protection II and III Projects (Loan 4195-AR, approved by the Board in June 1997, and Loan 4366-AR,

2Evaluación Ex-Post de una Muestra de Proyectos del Trabajar III y Programa Trabajar III ­ Evaluación Social
(MC Vazquez, 2002).



                                                       6

approved by the Board in June 1998) to help shape the design of the Project's workfare component, with
regards to:

    (a) the wage rate: it was equivalent to the expected wage rate for households in the lowest quintile
         of the income distribution, in order to maximize the transfer to the poor;
    (b) the participation of communities and civil society organizations: CSOs were eligible to present
         sub-projects for financing and were to play an oversight role through their participation in the
         local councils. The workfare component also benefited women;
    (c) the geographical targeting of sub-projects: in its original formulation, the Project promoted
         investment in poorer areas by co-financing a higher share of the cost of materials in those areas
         and by closely monitoring the Program's performance in reaching poor areas; and
    (d) the monitoring and evaluation system: the system benefited from the progress obtained under the
         Trabajar program, to evaluate the costing and quality of the subprojects and ensure that the
         created assets benefited the poor. In addition, a special module was included in the permanent
         household survey (Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, EPH) to assess targeting and the poverty
         impacts of the Heads of Household Program.

The introduction in the Project's original formulation on a pilot basis, of co-financing of subprojects for
productive activities in rural areas, (expanded beyond a pilot and to all areas, through the second
amendment) had incorporated the lessons learned in the implementation of social funds and rural poverty
alleviation projects in the Northeast of Brazil for the financing of productive activities, namely:

    (a) the Project would support matching grants to very poor communities, beyond the reach of micro-
         finance institutions;
    (b) the subprojects would undergo prior technical evaluation and ex-post assessments; and
    (c) the Project would provide a package of grants with training and technical assistance.

Transparency and Governance

The experience of Trabajar had shown the importance of governance and accountability and building on
this, Heads of Household Program already counted on an extensive system of independent audits that was
in place and would continue. Both the executive and legislative branches of the Government carried out
numerous financial and operational audits of the Program and many were available on the websites of the
auditing agencies. Still, one of the Bank's important contributions to the strengthening of the Program
was precisely in the area of transparency and governance. For example, the Bank Loan financed a
number of activities which were applicable to the entire Program, such as:

o Concurrent Audit. The concurrent audit, financed by the Project, contributed to (i) maintaining an
    appropriate fiduciary control environment throughout implementation; (ii) helping to support
    Program execution; and (iii) ensuring that annual financial audits were received by the Bank on time.
    The objective was to audit continuously the beneficiary payment process. The concurrent audit was
    conducted by the Argentine Supreme Audit Institution, Auditoría General de la Nación (AGN)
    according to specific terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

o Social Accountability. The Project supported and set out to strengthen a number of activities to
    improve social accountability in the entire Program, including the establishment of municipal
    consultative councils and a review of their role, as well as a hotline and a Commission on Fraud in
    Employment Programs (CODEM).

o Supervision and Evaluation. The Project financed a number of activities to strengthen the National
    Government's supervision capacity and supported a rigorous evaluation of the Program's impact.


                                                       7

    This covered supervision of the completeness of the documentation proving eligibility for Program
    participants and of workfare activities by Ministry of Labor supervisors, including the methodology
    to be used, registration and monitoring of findings, and follow-up to correct deficiencies. Based on
    data from a module (financed under the previous Third Social Protection Project) included in the
    Permanent Household Survey (Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, EPH) on the Program as well as the
    inclusion of specific questions in the main questionnaire, Bank staff, together with the Ministry of
    Labor, evaluated the Program's impact and targeting performance in late 2002 and again in mid-2003.
    Thereafter, targeting performance and other indicators were monitored continuously using EPH data.

Project Timeliness

Timely project preparation responded to the Government's urgent need to contain, in the short to medium
term, the threat of economic hardship for a large segment of the population and to ensure social
pacification. Loan approval by the Board was delayed due to the Government's debt default and the
relationship with its international creditors.

Risks and their mitigation

The risk analysis was thorough, particularly with respect to country capacity and the Project's technical
soundness. The risks (Section F, PAD) from Outputs to Objectives included (i) poor outcomes on
targeting to poor workers, (ii) sub-projects with low value to poor communities, and (iii) political
manipulation of the Program during the elections of March 2003. The risks from components to outputs
included (iv) insufficient capacity to develop proposals of adequate quality for activities to employ the
large quantity of expected beneficiaries and (v) expansion of the Program beyond its defined target
population. Given the overall context, the Project was adequately classified as high risk. Indeed, risk (v)
materialized and risks (iii) and (iv) were issues in some municipalities.

The Project contained several features to mitigate its identified risks:

    (a) The design of the Heads of Household Program itself and its administrative procedures tried to
        address some of these risks through, on the one hand, the control and supervision of the municipal
        councils, and on the other hand, the establishment of clear supervision procedures.             The
        provincial offices of the Ministry of Labor and staff at the national level would systematically
        visit municipalities to review compliance with eligibility and effective workfare participation;
    (b) The extensive system of independent audits mentioned above;
    (c) A rigorous impact evaluation that took place concomitantly with the Project and whose results
        were available early. The evaluation was built on independent household surveys which collected
        data about the Program;
    (d) The Bank urged the public dissemination of information about basic indicators, beneficiaries,
        workfare and training activities, information which the Ministry did make available, albeit after
        some initial delays;
    (e) The Bank, in cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank and the United Nations
        Development Program, provided funding for the social monitoring by NGOs of social assistance
        programs which they financed, including the Heads of Household Program.

Mitigation measures were spelled out clearly in the text. A strong monitoring and evaluation system
enabled program managers to detect problems early and to decide on follow-up measures.

Adequacy of participatory process




                                                       8

The Project incorporated a strong participatory process during preparation and implementation. Key
stakeholders were the poor unemployed, municipalities and NGOs. Preparation of the Project included
discussions with municipal authorities, NGOs and beneficiaries in all the provinces, accounting for a
significant share of the resources. The Social Assessment also involved discussions with those groups.
In addition, the Ministry of Labor conducted beneficiary assessments. The municipal councils were
expected to provide key checks and balances to the new municipal responsibilities of registering
beneficiaries and implementing sub-projects. In the tense and low confidence atmosphere between
Government and society, these councils were to provide a key space for dialogue.

Quality at entry

The Quality at Entry rating was Satisfactory (Source QAG QEA 6). Implementation arrangements and
the risk assessment were judged Highly Satisfactory. Bank inputs and processes were also judged Highly
Satisfactory.   The panel recognized the particularly difficult economic and social circumstances in
Argentina during preparation. In that context, the Bank team had to work quickly and effectively both to
respond to the Government's request for assistance and to help shape Government proposals to the quality
of design that would merit Bank support. The Bank team demonstrated strong country knowledge and
familiarity with institutional realities, including institutional weaknesses, at both the central government
and municipal levels. The Project enjoyed strong country ownership and incorporated enhancements
proposed by the Bank team, such as actions to make sure that the beneficiaries understood the workfare
activities, to help build an information base to link beneficiary payments to workfare activities, and to
help strengthen controls and other safeguards, including greater transparency. The Project was a good
example of the Bank's timely response to a client's urgent request for assistance in addressing social costs
of economic crises. The effective response was possible because (i) the necessary analytical work on the
economy was in place; (ii) staff experienced in social safety net design could be mobilized quickly; and
(iii) management was able to cut through hurdles to confirm the Bank's commitment to a relatively large
assistance program in a short time.

2.2      Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk
status, and actions taken, as applicable):

Program implementation

The Heads of Household Program was successful in reaching the poor and mitigating the impact of
Argentina's economic and social crisis (Ravallion and Galasso, 2004). It also contributed to calming the
highly tense social atmosphere by transferring rapidly needed income support to poor, unemployed
workers with dependants. . According to the results of the impact evaluation, it prevented an estimated
additional 10 percent of the participants from falling below the food poverty line, and allowed an extra
2% of the population to afford the food component of Argentina's poverty line.

The Program's early implementation faced several challenges that are explained below, mostly because of
its rapid pace of expansion. As mentioned in Section 1.4, the number of Program participants more than
tripled in only one year, from 574,000 in May 2002 to 1,991,000 in May 2003. Beginning in mid-2003,
the Government, with active Bank support, started to take important actions to improve the Program's
governance and implementation. As described in more detail below, these actions included closure of
registration of new beneficiaries; systematic use of internal consistency and database cross-checks,
enhanced supervision of municipalities, improved handling of fraud accusations; actions to drop ineligible
beneficiaries, improved transparency of Program implementation and payments to beneficiaries by bank
debit cards. Enforcement of the workfare criteria proved to be difficult, and compliance declined steadily




                                                       9

over time, although Bank financing covered only those who met the workfare requirement3. As the
economy began to improve and generate more employment opportunities, including for Program
participants, Bank assistance focused on providing technical advice and support to define and implement
a transition strategy that would provide a longer-term safety net for those in structural poverty, and
support activities which could contribute more to the employability and job prospects of beneficiaries.

1.       Beneficiary numbers

As of August 2006, immediately after the Loan closed, the Program covered 1,247,000 beneficiaries. The
decline in beneficiary numbers since May 2003 (when the current administration took over) reflected the
Government's continued application of controls to identify and drop from the Program those beneficiaries
who no longer were eligible, as well as efforts to strengthen the Program's governance (44 percent),
improved employment opportunities generated from the revitalized economy, which enabled beneficiaries
to leave for employment (37 percent), since March 2005, beneficiaries' transfers to the Familias
conditional cash transfer (CCT) program (17 percent), and beginning in 2006, transfers to the new
Training and Employment Insurance (2 percent), (see Annex 2, Table 6).

2.       Registration Process

The Government started the Program in the midst of the economic crisis and as a rapid response to a
possible social collapse in 2002, when 10 million people suddenly fell into poverty. The need for rapid
scale-up implied that in order to reach as many people as possible, the Government relied on outside
support: municipalities and civil society organizations. These two factors ­ rapid scale-up and multiple
actors -- shaped the authorizing environment and accountability and control mechanisms. First, the
tumultuous overall political and social situation made it difficult in many places to enroll people in an
orderly fashion. Second, there was confusion in the original Presidential decree regarding the Program's
design, the division of responsibilities, eligibility criteria and the enforcement of the work requirement.
Third, many municipalities found it difficult to administer such a large Program and to organize workfare
activities, without any financial or technical support from the central government.

Some unions and religious organizations participated in the enrollment process to speed up Program roll-
out. In some localities, though, there were reports of political interests or individuals intervening in these
processes for the overall Program. For example, groups of the unemployed, piquetero organizations,
registered beneficiaries directly with the Ministry of Labor instead of going through the municipality.
Also, beneficiary numbers increased significantly in several municipalities before the Presidential
elections of 2003, between January and May, after Government officials had declared that registration
was closed as of end-May 2002. A subsequent Bank investigation examined some of these reports (see
Annex 2, Box 2) and the Government took remedial actions based on its recommendations.

3.       Design of the program and division of responsibilities

A key design issue in the Program was and remains the absence of an incentive framework to hold
municipalities accountable for following the rules of the Program stipulated by the central government.
As the Program started as an emergency program to address the unemployment crisis, little guidance was
initially available to local managers, who devised their own rules and procedures. Rectifying these and
clarifying roles as the Program progressed turned out to be a lengthy and incomplete process. The
Ministry of Labor had difficulties influencing some of the practices of local governments in the way they
administered the Program partly because the Ministry's operating capacity was stretched, ,partly because


3The last disbursement for beneficiary payments made under the loan was for transfers made by the Program in
December 2004.


                                                      10

of the underlying tension between the national and local governments during the crisis and because of
limitations in the legal framework for the Program.

In some localities and provinces, some participants of the Heads of Household Program worked as de
facto municipal/provincial employees, including, for example, by working in schools and health centers
and by providing administrative support for the Program. In some municipalities, beneficiaries performed
activities organized to respond to the emergency, such as distributing free medicine or working in soup
kitchens. On the other hand, some municipalities implemented previously inexistent services, sustained
by the labor provided by Program beneficiaries. Given the challenges in creating jobs for the massive
number of Program beneficiaries, the Ministry of Labor could not control this practice. The fact that the
municipalities used some Heads of Household Program beneficiaries as free labor generated a conflict of
interest for the municipalities between finding "genuine" employment for the beneficiaries and the loss of
"de-facto" staff.

In the original design and Program decree, municipal consultative councils had an important role in
Program oversight but they could not always fulfill their functions fully as they did not have the necessary
instruments at hand. Indeed, councils were rapidly organized in 80 percent of the municipalities, a
notable achievement in the crisis context (Goldbert, 2003) and started functioning as local "Mesas de
Diálogo". The councils were to intervene in implementation and act as a check-and-balance institution of
"control social por proximidad". Their functions were to (i) control and supervise the Program, including
the entry of beneficiaries and the compliance with the work requirement; (ii) ensure transparency; and
(iii) assist in the organization of workfare activities. However, these voluntary groups depended on the
goodwill of the local governments, which did not always grant them the space and authority to undertake
their tasks. Often, they did not know much about the Program and the operations of the municipal
council and they did not receive financial and operational support. Participation in the councils fell after
the first semester of the Program. In many localities, they were, therefore, not able to function as the
effective risk mitigation measures envisioned in the design of the Project. However, both the national
consultative council and in municipalities where they remained active, the municipal councils fulfilled an
articulation function and provided space for social control and dialogue.

At the central level, the coordination between the Ministries of Social Development (MDS) and Labor to
implement the Program, and the addition of a new sub-component, created some initial strain. The
second amendment to the Loan Agreement in February 2004 resulted from a long negotiation between the
World Bank, Ministry of Labor and MDS about the relevance of supporting productive activities for small
group of beneficiaries on a grant basis. While the Ministry of Labor strived to maintain an employment
focus to the Program, the Ministry of Social Development also saw it as a social inclusion program, hence
its interest in the new sub-component of small grants to support micro-enterprises, as a part of the
Ministry's umbrella program "Manos a la Obra" (see Annex 2, Table 4). When the sub-component
started, beneficiaries, municipalities, regional offices of the Ministry of Labor and MDS had to clarify
roles and responsibilities. The MDS also went through an intense learning process in the administration
of this sub-component.

4.       Eligibility Criteria and Enforcement of the Work Requirement

While the Program was very successful, overall, in reaching the poor effectively, several of the original
eligibility criteria could not be enforced. Restricting the Program to only heads of households was very
difficult, as the procedures relied on the participants' self-reporting--between 2002 and 2006, less than
half of beneficiaries were heads of household. On the other hand, nearly all beneficiary households
included at least one minor (90-95 percent). Checking the employment status of beneficiaries was
operationally equally difficult. According to the results of the impact evaluation (which used a panel
survey), about half of beneficiaries had not been active in the labor market before joining the Program. It


                                                      11

also was not possible to exclude from the Program workers with jobs in the informal labor market (about
half of Argentina's total employment), particularly given the difficulty in enforcement of the work
requirement. Table 3 in Annex 2 summarizes selected data on eligibility requirements, using both the
periodic household survey and administrative data.

Participation in workfare activities did not reach the PAD target of 90 percent of beneficiaries and the
Program's workfare character weakened over time.               Compliance with workfare (or other eligible)
activities declined from around 70 percent in October 2002, to 67 percent in May 20034 and 56 percent at
the end of 20045 (see Annex 2, Table 5) This reflected (i) the increased "pull" to other part-time
employment due to economic recovery; (ii) the difficulties of a number of municipalities to enforce the
requirement; and (iii) the Program's broader role as the main response of the Government during the
social crisis which implied that it included a sizeable number of beneficiaries which could not be
reasonably expected to effectively comply with the workfare requirement (mothers with 3 or more
children accounted for nearly a third of the beneficiaries and many municipalities exempted them from
the workfare requirement; 5 percent of the beneficiaries were women above 60 years of age, handicapped
persons, parents of handicapped children, or men above 65 years of age). Further, even if poor and needy
beneficiaries did not comply with the work requirement, municipalities were reluctant to drop them from
the Program when no alternative was available to provide needed support. Workfare compliance varied
significantly by region, with participation generally higher in the North, and less in the South and greater
Buenos Aires.

5.       Improvements in oversight and controls since May 2003

After coming to power in May 2003, the Government of President Kirchner started to act with
determination to deal with irregularities in the administration of the Program at the central level and to
establish stricter supervision, complaint resolution and auditing requirements of municipal
implementation of the Program. In addition, alternative controls were developed which reduced some
risks. As described in greater detail in Annex 2, Component 3, the measures put in place by the
Government since May 2003, included the following:

    -    Closure of registration of new beneficiaries;
    -    Expansion and systematic use of internal consistency and database cross-checks;
    -    Enhanced supervision of municipalities;
    -    Improved handling of fraud accusations;
    -    Actions to drop ineligible beneficiaries;
    -    Improved transparency of Program implementation; and
    -    Payment by bank debit cards.

In order to implement many of these measures, the capacity and performance of the information
processing center of the Ministry of Labor, under considerable strain because of the rapid scale-up of the
Program, needed to be improved. Project resources were used to purchase equipment and upgrade
infrastructure.

6.       The Program's Achievements



4We include work activities for 20 hours or more per week and education. Data for training activities is only
available and included starting in the second semester of 2004.
5 The last disbursement for beneficiary payments made under the loan was for transfers made by the Program in
December 2004. Workfare compliance continued to decline to 42 percent during the first semester of 2006 and 32
percent in the second semester of 2006.


                                                         12

The Program was instrumental in the Government's efforts at "social contention", helping the country
avoid the even further deterioration of social conditions (see Annex 5). The Program achieved its goals of
transferring money quickly to poor households deeply affected by the crisis ­ as seen by the sheer speed
of expansion ­ and it prevented a number from falling into extreme poverty (see Section 2.3). The
Program's implementation obviously involved the trade-offs that social protection interventions grapple
with in the face of a massive disaster or crisis: whether to scale-up quickly programs to reach the
maximum number of beneficiaries at the cost of orderly implementation or to phase-in gradually at the
cost of lower coverage and slower response (Baldacci, 2005).

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The Project's M&E arrangements are considered best-practice and have been instrumental in the Bank's
policy dialogue with the Government. Indicators for the PDO were appropriate6 and the inclusion of a
specific module in the periodic household survey enabled the Program to have access to reliable
information on targeting and compliance with the work requirements.

Monitoring

The Program's administrative data included an extensive set of monitoring indicators which tracked
overall developments in the Heads of Household Program and were linked to individual components.
This information enabled the Ministry of Labor and the Bank to monitor closely trends in beneficiary
demographics, participation, overall compliance with eligibilities, exits from the program by reason, etc.
For the municipalities with the largest numbers of beneficiaries, this information was linked with data on
results of supervision of municipalities and call center statistics on complaints. In the event that monthly
monitoring using these indicators showed anomalies in Program implementation, the Ministry and the
Bank could discuss options to address these.

Module in the Permanent Household Survey

Information on the Heads of Household Program comes from the Permanent Household Survey (EPH)
carried out by the National Statistical Institute, which includes questions on the Program. The EPH
survey is an independent data source and the primary source for tracking overall Program implementation
and impact. It was made available on a quarterly basis. The questions on the Program were developed
and included in the survey upon the suggestion and with the input of the Bank.

Impact evaluation

An impact evaluation was carried out using survey data for October 2002 and updated using May 2003
data7. As of 2002, the net income benefit (after taking into account foregone income of the participant, in
other words what the participant would have earned in the absence of the Program) was estimated as two-
thirds of the AR$150.00 benefit. This decreased to one-third of the transfer by May 2003. The transfer
also compensated participants partially for income loss and precluded 10 percent of the beneficiaries from
falling into extreme poverty. The analysis (see section 3.2.) demonstrated the Program's good targeting
performance. Taking into account foregone income, about 40 percent of the participants came from the
bottom 20 percent of the income distribution, while about 80 percent came from the bottom 40 percent.


6Outcome indicators such as poverty and unemployment rates did not have target values set in the PAD.
7The impact evaluation used panel survey data, pre- and post-crisis. The control group was applicants who had not
yet received benefits, supplemented with propensity score matching methods and longitudinal observations,
comparing current circumstances of both participants and applicants with a pre-crisis baseline. For more details, see
Ravallion and Galasso (2004).


                                                       13

In addition, using total per capita household income excluding government transfers, the results of growth
incidence curve analysis shows that the 2002 ­ 2003 period was characterized by negative growth rates
across the entire distribution (-9 percent). However, when Heads of Household transfers are taken into
account and the total per capita household income is considered, the growth incidence curve acquires a
downward slope, with positive growth rates at the lower percentiles of the income distribution but
negative growth rates at the middle and upper percentiles. The downward-sloping curve and positive
growth rates at the low percentiles suggest that the Heads of Household Program was instrumental in
tilting the overall distribution of income changes at the beginning of the recovery phase in a pro-poor
way8.

The Project also financed an impact evaluation of productive projects (micro-enterprises supported by
grants and technical assistance which were introduced as part of the second amendment) in the
Metropolitan area of Buenos Aires. Results from this short-term evaluation are summarized in Section
3.2.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable):

Safeguard Compliance: Satisfactory (Environmental Assessment).

The workfare subprojects financed under the loan were small (under US$75,000).                        Most of the
environmental impacts were predictable and avoided or mitigated using common practices.                         The
evaluation methodology incorporated checklists, and promotion and supervision activities included
environmental considerations. The Project Implementation Unit took into account the recommendations
of the Environmental Assessment carried out in late 2001 and improved and streamlined existing
checklists and guides for evaluators and supervisors.

Fiduciary Compliance

The Government and the Bank used several instruments to monitor the proper fiduciary utilization of
Bank funds. First, obligatory database cross-checks between the rolls of Heads of Household Program
beneficiaries with social security and pension databases were designed to prevent those with formal
employment, pensions, or other social transfers from being paid. Additional cross-checks by the National
System of Tax and Social Identification (SINTyS) began in late 2002.                   The additional data bases
included: personal property tax rolls, capital gains taxes, non-contributory pensions, municipal and
provincial databases, and death registries.

Second, since the Project's inception, a continuous audit of the payment system was in place (ensuring
that the actual beneficiaries receiving the payments were identical with those on the lists of beneficiaries
for whom payments had been authorized)9. The concurrent audit, contributed to (i) maintaining an
appropriate fiduciary control environment throughout implementation; (ii) helping to support program
execution; and (iii) ensuring that annual financial audits were received by the Bank on time. The
concurrent audit, based on a representative sample of operations each time, was conducted by the
Argentine Supreme Audit Institution, Auditoría General de la Nación (AGN) according to specific terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank.        This continuous procedure resulted in good results, leading the
Argentine Supreme Audit Institution to provide the Project with a timely and unqualified audit for 2003,
2004, 2005 and 2006.


8Source: World Bank (2005b), Argentina: Seeking Sustained Economic Growth with Social Equity, Report No.
32553
9A regular annual audit also examined the transfers to municipalities for subprojects which received cofinancing
from the Loan.


                                                        14

Third, the System for Complaints and Accusations of Fraud (CODEM: Commission on Fraud in
Employment Programs) was improved under the Project. It started operating more through the internet,
with simpler and shorter procedures. Localities started to access information to check on the stage of
processing of complaints in their own area. Also, over the course of Project implementation, CODEM
improved their coordination with the Call Center, which was the main source of channeling fraud
accusations in the Program.

Fourth, Bank supervision also played specific attention to fiduciary compliance. Continuous monitoring
of a host of Program indicators (such as workfare compliance) and overall targeting and poverty impact
was also used as a tool to closely track Program developments. Beginning in mid-2005, as part of the due
diligence activities following on the investigation of the specialized Bank department (see Annex 2, Box
2), supervision included spot checks of data reliability in municipalities.

Finally, the Project had a built-in safety margin as the Bank loan disbursed 90 percent ­ rather than the
total -- of claims included in the list of authorized and paid workfare participants. Spot checks in May
2005 showed that the degree of error was within this safety margin.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-completion
operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements,
sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable):

Transition strategy

With the normalization of the overall economic and social situation, the Government is seeking to
intensify its efforts in reorienting the Heads of Households Program from its original emergency nature
towards programs that assume a medium and long-term role in Argentina's social protection system. The
need for a reorientation is also exemplified by the steady decline of the share of beneficiaries in workfare
activities as the organization of long-term, meaningful public works programs for large numbers of
beneficiaries is extremely difficult for many municipalities. Workfare compliance in the first semester of
2006 stood at 42 percent where it had been at 56 percent in the second semester of 2004 (the last semester
transfer payments under the loan had been made). Despite the substantial fall in Program participants
over the past years (by 50 percent since May 2003, reaching less than 900,000 by June 2007), such a
transition could not be achieved immediately, but requires time as a large number of the beneficiaries
needed to find employment or obtain alternative support through other programs, including social safety
nets or insurance-type mechanisms.

In late 2004, in response to the changed social and economic situation in Argentina, the Government
announced a transition strategy for the Program. The cornerstone of the strategy ­ to be implemented
over two years­ was to distinguish among the Program beneficiaries those that have higher chance of re-
employment from those that require a different type of longer-term safety net, linked to building human
capital for children.     Gradually, Program beneficiaries with two or more children in 400 large
municipalities were to move to the Familias CCT program managed by the Ministry of Social
Development, which links the income transfer to investments in the children's education and health (in
October 2005, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) approved a US$700 million loan for the
Familias program). Other Program beneficiaries could migrate to a newly created non-contributory
Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo (SCE, Training and Employment Insurance, formally created in March
2006) Program. The Seguro includes a higher stipend (AR$225) but it is time-bound (2 years), and
requires the signing of a personal agreement stipulating specific conditions for receiving the stipend
(mostly actively seeking employment).



                                                     15

During the gradual implementation of the transition strategy, the Ministry of Labor would continue to
administer the Heads of Household Program, and increase its efforts ­ as a preparation for further roll-out
of the Seguro -- to help beneficiaries find employment through completing their education, technical
training, and on-the-job training in specific sectors. The Ministry of Social Development would also
continue to complement these by promoting small-scale productive activities for groups of beneficiaries,
with the aim also to facilitate graduation from the Program.

Bank Support to the Transition Strategy

Bank assistance to the Government's transition strategy includes financing for two projects: the first loan
(Heads of Household Transition Project, approved March 2006, US$350 million) supports the orientation
of the program towards employment by supporting the installation and strengthening of municipal
employment services and the efforts to improve participants' employability trough training, adult
education and other activities. A complementary second Loan (Argentina Lifelong Learning Project,
US$200 million, approved June 2007) supports equipping participants (as well as other unemployed or
informal workers) with better employability chances by building a lifelong learning and competency-
based training system for youth and adults 18 years or older. The Heads of Household Program was the
largest social safety net in Argentina, it provided relevant experience for government staff and led to
improvements in information systems, both necessary building blocks for the transition.



3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global priorities, and
Bank assistance strategy):

Relevance of objectives

The objectives were highly relevant. Bank financing, which was limited to the workfare element of the
Program, was effective in providing temporary employment to participants that would have gone destitute
if it had not been for the stipend provided by the Project. Once the emergency subsided, the Project
supported the Program's institutional strengthening and improvements in its management (clean-up of the
beneficiary databases) and overall governance. As a result, the country is now in a better position to
deliver social assistance services: its institutions have demonstrated they can provide an effective safety
net during an emergency and it is setting-up institutions to address the differentiated needs of the
unemployed (employment offices, capacity-building and employment insurance) and of the structural
poor (conditional cash transfers). To this day, the Program remains one of the best-targeted cash transfer
programs in the region.

Relevance of the different subprojects

The relevance of the different subprojects varied:

     · As the emergency subsided, workfare became a less relevant program intervention as revealed by
        the slow but steady decline of compliance with the work requirements, since other employment
        opportunities became available and the organization of sufficient long-term, meaningful workfare
        activities remained extremely difficult for many municipalities. The net benefit (after considering
        the opportunity cost to workers ­ what income they would have been able to earn if they had not
        been able to participate in the Program) decreased from two-thirds of the AR$150 transfer in




                                                      16

        2002 to one-third in May 2003, indicating that the program impact was declining with the
        economic recovery;
     · An ex-post review of the subprojects with co-financing for materials indicated that there had been
        difficulties ensuring the participation of Program beneficiaries as temporary workers, but the
        works were completed and of good quality. The infrastructure was adequate, well-used, and had
        improved the quality of the life of the poor. While, overall, poor areas benefited the most from
        the subprojects, there was significant heterogeneity in pro-poor targeting among provinces.
     · The short-term impact evaluation of the productive projects showed that a year after receiving
        financing, there was overall a positive impact on the average hours worked by participants but not
        on their incomes. However, results varied: females were less likely to substitute away from other
        sources of employment, and importantly, income gains were significant for the more educated,
        the 30 to 40 year olds, and beneficiaries who had previous experience in the activity.


3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal linkages
between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Section D of the Data Sheet):

Moderately satisfactory. As shown by the impact evaluation (Galasso and Ravallion, 2004), the Heads of
Household Program was well targeted and reached poor, unemployed adults with dependents who would
have gone destitute otherwise (see table 2 in Annex 2). It precluded 10% of the beneficiaries from falling
into extreme poverty and the transfer also compensated participants partially from income loss. An
additional 2 % of the population was also able to afford the food component of the poverty line as a result
of the Program. The Heads of Household Program was instrumental in making the early phase of the
economic recovery in Argentina pro-poor ­ i.e., due to the Program, income inequality decreased
somewhat between May 2002 and May 2003 when growth resumed (World Bank, 2005b). The program
also succeeded in its role of "social contention" and helped create spaces of initial dialogue through the
consultative councils in a climate where government was highly discredited.

These achievements and the improvement in the Project's outcome indicators were even more remarkable
given the challenges facing the implementation of the subprojects and compliance with the workfare
requirement. In their majority, subprojects were completed, of good quality and provided basic services
to the poor even if the weak management capacity of the municipalities prevented the achievement of the
original target for the number of subprojects to be financed from the Loan.

Importantly, and going beyond the specific social achievements of the Program, starting in 2003, the
Project supported the government in (1) strengthening the Program's overall governance and
accountability framework (see section 2.4) and (2) designing a transition strategy (see section 2.5.). The
latter positioned the country to also address key issues related to the labor market such as providing
lifelong learning opportunities and improving the employability of the poor (both with support from other
Bank projects).

Unemployment rate

As originally envisioned, the Heads of Household Program did create temporary employment for, initially
around 1.3 million workers (mid-2003) that complied with the workfare conditionality. Official statistics
in the country in the early years after the crisis counted beneficiaries of the Program as employed -- and
hence derived the impact of the Program on unemployment as the difference between estimates
considering Heads of Household participants as unemployed or employed. However, such estimations
did include a bias since about half of beneficiaries had not been active in the labor market before the
Program (and hence the counterfactual would have rather been that they had been inactive rather than



                                                     17

unemployed). Taking into account these behavioral responses, the impact evaluation (Galasso and
Ravallion, 2004) estimated that the Program had a relatively small impact of lowering the unemployment
rate by 2.5 percentage points in late 2002. Indeed, the Program was only partially responsible for
bringing down the unemployment rate in the aftermath of the crisis; the evaluation results showed that the
unemployment rate would have fallen between May 2002 and October 2002 even without the Program.
By May 2003, the impact on lowering unemployment had declined even further to only 0.9 percentage
points. (Galasso, 2004) Further, over time, an increasing share of heads of household participants did not
carry out workfare activities and were at the same time not looking for new employment -- a category of
beneficiaries which one could not count as active in the labor market either. Independent of such
conceptual discussions, the Program did create massive temporary employment in the initial phase (2002-
2003) which then significantly dropped due to the strong reduction in program participants and the
reduction in the workfare fulfillment. The desirable shrinking of the Program, as well as reduction in
workfare compliance, can -- at least in part -- be explained by the improving overall economic conditions
which helped to halve the unemployment rate from around 21 percent (2002) to 11 percent (June 2006).

Poverty indicators

Overall, as mentioned above, the Heads of Household Program was successful in reaching the poor and
mitigating the impact of the social and economic crisis.

Incidence data shows that the Program has a good targeting performance (among the best in Latin
America, Lindert et al. 2007). The share of Program participants among the 40 percent better-off
households in Argentina was only 6 percent in 2005 while the share of Program benefits going to the
bottom two quintiles was 80 percent. The targeting performance of the Heads of Household Program is
comparable to international or Latin American standards. In terms of the share of benefits going to the
poor, the performance is comparable to Brazil's Bolsa Escola Program and Mexico's Oportunidades.

         Box 1: Poverty profile of beneficiaries

         Demographic information on beneficiaries, for the first semester of 2005, is summarized
         in Table 2 in Annex 2. About 70 percent of beneficiaries were women. Average household
         size was slightly over 5 and the average number of children was slightly over 2, both
         figures higher than for the economically active population. Total household income was
         AR$652/month (roughly US$200/month), including the transfer from the Program,
         equivalent to 40 percent of the average for all active adults. The average years of
         education was slightly under 8 years, 3 years less than the average for the economically
         active population in Argentina.




Similarly, the Heads of Household Program performed relatively well in its coverage of the poor. It
reached about a third of the poorest 20 percent of the Argentine population, about the average for the
best-performing social assistance programs in Latin America10. Because of its good targeting and
coverage of the poor, the Program had the highest impact on the reduction of poverty and inequality
among these types of programs. The Program was instrumental in making the early economic recovery
phase in Argentina pro-poor. (See Annex 2, Overall impact and Section 2.3).

The Project, measured against its upper-level indicators, was successful. Additionally, governance and
accountability mechanisms were considerably strengthened. Starting in 2003, the Project supported the

10(Lindert, K, E. Skoufias, and J. Shapiro. 2005. Redistributing Income to the Poor and the Rich: Public Transfers in
Latin America and the Caribbean).


                                                         18

Government in strengthening the Program's overall governance and accountability framework through a
series of measures regarding first the management information systems and its use for managerial
decision-making and second systematic controls such as audits, cross-checks, and treatment of complaints
(Annex 2, Table 6). As a result, the overall governance and accountability framework of the Program
improved significantly. As compared to other CCT programs in the region, the Program had a significant
quantity of accountability mechanisms (Annex 2, Table 7).

On the other hand, as the economic recovery proceeded, the net benefit to workers decreased since wages
outside the Program were increasing and the level of compliance with workfare decreased as beneficiaries
were increasingly pulled into the informal labor market.

Level of income transfer

When the Program started in 2002, the transfer level was set below the expected wage rate for households
in the bottom (poorest) quintile of the income distribution, considering the average wage rate for full-time
work and the unemployment rate among this group. This was to ensure self-targeting: not attracting
people out of full time employment, nor discouraging them from taking up regular jobs when available.

The level of income transfer of the Program relative to comparable wages in the labor market has changed
since October 2002. While real comparable wages increased over time, the real Heads of Household
Program transfer declined given that the nominal transfer stayed constant and inflation picked up in
Argentina over the last two years. Relative to the poverty line, the transfer had a similar decline from
covering 22.7 percent of necessary household expenditures (for a family of four) in April 2002 to 17.7
percent in May 2005.

Similarly, the net benefit (after considering the opportunity cost to workers ­ what income they would
have been able to earn if they had not been able to participate in the Program) decreased from two-thirds
of the AR$150 transfer in 2002 to one-third in May 2003, indicating that the Program impact was
declining with the economic recovery.

The relative decline in the Heads of Household transfer compared to overall wages and salaries was ­ in
the Bank's view ­ a correct response from Government to the changing labor market and economic
conditions, which made an emergency safety net relatively less important than a more permanent social
assistance policy. The constancy of the Heads of Households payment also provided a positive incentive
for beneficiaries to switch to the Familias and Seguro programs, outlined in the transition strategy.
Further, it provided an increasing incentive to actively search for employment.

Component 1: Workfare and Subprojects.
Indicators: Number of workers hired for projects, Quality of works

The number of program participants rose from 574,000 in May 2002 to 1,857,000 by the end of 2002,
reached its peak at 1,991,000 in May 2003 and has declined steadily ever since. As seen above, the
Program was well targeted and contained the spread of extreme poverty.

Component 1 financed two types of sub-projects. For the majority, it financed only the payments to
beneficiaries (US$ 478.5 million). For the rest, the Project financed a share of the cost of materials as
well as beneficiary payments (see section 1.5). These sub-projects included financing for small-scale
infratrsucture (A) and productive projects (B)

A. Outputs of Subprojects with Loan Co-financing for Materials



                                                     19

Between August 2003 and December 2005, the Subprojects with Loan co-financing for Materials
involved 122,000 (target specified in PAD was 200,000) workers (approximately 10% of the
beneficiaries) and a total expense of US$49.1 million. Workers were Heads of Household beneficiaries,
who already knew something about construction and received additional stipends from the construction
contractor, although because of difficulties in ensuring their participation, some municipalities also used
other workers. Despite this weakness, the component partially reached its objective since the works did
improve the physical infrastructure of public services. Eighty percent of the projects consisted of relevant
infrastructure and the works were of good quality.

Extent of Pro-poor Targeting of Subprojects with Loan Co-financing for Materials (December 2005)

One of the indicators originally including in the PAD was pro-poor area targeting ­ in addition to the
good targeting performance at the household level (discussed above), the Program was to also show a
progressive area incidence, favoring the construction of community infrastructure in poorer areas rather
than less poor ones. As program execution was decentralized at the provincial and municipal levels,
central allocation could be strongly modified by local governments.           "Poor area targeting" (PAT)
coefficients - inter-provincial, inter-departmental (across all provinces), and intra-provincial - show the
difference in spending between areas with no unmet basic needs (UBN) and those with high UBN
indicators. The analysis (Giovagnoli, 2006) showed that overall the subcomponent was targeted to poor
areas, with an additional $85.00 per capita going to poor areas. There was high variability among
provinces with the most pro-poor being Jujuy, Tucuman, and Chubut. In seven provinces, spending
shows no evidence of favoring the poor and in the province of Buenos Aires, spending was actually
skewed towards richer areas (Annex 2, Table 9).           Depending on which province they belong to,
departments with the same UBN index, could expect to receive from zero to almost $80.00.

Ex-post revision of Subprojects with Loan Co-financing for Materials (June 2006)

An ex-post revision of subprojects which received materials co-financing covered over 100 works. In
general, the works were of good quality and well finished (80%). The most relevant subprojects were
those for the renovation or expansion of health and education infrastructure. Most subprojects were in
use at the time of the visits and were being used by the poor. Peer learning between participants was one
of the main forms of capacity-building while participating in the activities. However, many participants
remained in the expectation of other "plans". Participation of beneficiaries was relatively low (30 percent)
except for cooperatives.

B. Productive Subprojects with Loan Co-financing

The number of participants in productive subprojects with co-financing totaled 19,300 and the amount
spent US$23.7 million.

As of December 2005, about 86 percent of the projects were concentrated in the categories of agro-
industrial products, agriculture/fishing, goods production (not related to food), and services/commerce
(see Annex 2, Table 5). About 60 percent of the participants were women.

These micro-businesses remained generally informal even though many were seeking formalization
through the registry of "monotributista" to expand business. The Ministry of Social Development
provided much technical assistance, through initial evaluations (replicated from the ones used by the
Ministry of Labor) and tutor visits. The mechanism of input purchases through municipalities presented
challenges for both the entrepreneurs, in terms of providing the purchasers with correct technical
description, and for the staff making purchases, who was not used to deal with this kind of merchandise.
Initially, this led to delays and mistakes in input purchase. The findings of an ex-post review of a sample


                                                      20

of these activities (Etchegaray, 2005, see Annex 2 Output of Subprojects with Loan Co-financing) helped
improve the implementation with more intense supervision, technical assistance and direct action of the
Ministry with the municipality.

In addition, an impact evaluation using a methodology agreed with the Bank was undertaken in Buenos
Aires, between the end of 2004 and the end of 200511 (Almeida and Galasso, 2007, see Annex 2) Project
members valued technical assistance but after a year of practice, they had been revising their estimation
of the sustainability and yield of the enterprise. There was an important element of self-selection, as more
able and entrepreneurial types were more likely to join the Program. Program participants increased their
working hours by 4 hours weekly and decreased other forms of employment. After a year, the analysis
found, on average, no significant effect on average on individual or household income and on
employment status of other household members. However, results varied across different groups of
beneficiaries. Also, for micro-enterprises, the full impact of the projects on income and employment
might take longer than one year to materialize.

Component 3: Supervision
Indicators: Number of supervision visits to municipalities to check both beneficiary registration
information and workfare activities.

The supervision of municipalities improved since May 2003 with improvements in the methodology of
checking files (random sampling with lists provided centrally to supervisors). In 2004, staff of the
Ministry of Labor visited 1,250 municipalities (target was 1,500 municipalities). In 2005, they visited
1,387 municipalities (target was 2,100 municipalities), accounting for half of all beneficiaries in the
Program. Supervision efforts were massive and improved significantly over time, although targets in
terms of number of municipalities were beyond the reach of the Ministry.
Starting in 2003, the Project supported the Government in significantly improving the Program's overall
governance and accountability framework through a series of measures regarding audits, cross-checks,
treatment of complaints (Annex 2, Table 7).

Component 4: Monitoring and Evaluation

The Program's administrative data included an extensive set of monitoring indicators which tracked
overall developments in the Heads of Household Program and were linked to individual components. In
addition, information on the Program comes from the Permanent Household Survey (EPH) carried out
quarterly by the National Statistical Institute, which includes questions on the Program. The survey data
provide the primary source for an independent tracking of overall Program implementation and impact.

As part of strengthening monitoring, starting in 2003, the Project supported the Government in improving
first the management information system and its use for managerial decision-making and second
systematic quality controls (section 2.1. on Transparency and Governance and Table 7 in Annex 2). This
included the acquisition of hardware and software to conduct internal quality checks on the beneficiary
registry and external cross-checks with other databases to check eligibility requirements. This led to a
better overall governance and stronger accountability framework of the Program.



11The methodology used a non-experimental approach designed primarily to mitigate the potential problems
associated with the self-selection of the most entrepreneurial individuals to quantify the effect of participation on
employment and income, one year after the program stated. The control group was comprised of individuals who
had attended promotional and informational meetings, and indicated their interest in receiving more information, but
who then did not participate either because the municipality of residence opted out of the program or because of
lengthy details in the approval of their proposal. For more details see Almeida and Galasso (2007).


                                                         21

An independent impact evaluation was carried out concurrently with the Project using EPH data for
October 2002 and May 2003. Its results are described in Section 2.3 and Annex 2.


3.3      Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):

The Program's main objective was to reduce poverty during the crisis: mainly by providing paid work for
the unemployed from poor households, and secondly by producing services or facilities of value to poor
families. The Program also contributed importantly to social pacification, which is not quantifiable but
was a crucial contribution in 2002 (see Annex 5).

Cost effectiveness of workfare component

The cost effectiveness of the workfare component of the Heads of Household Program could be
decomposed into the following four variables (i) labor intensity: the share of wage costs relative to project
costs; (ii) targeting performance; (iii) the net wage gain: share of the gross wage received by the poor
after taking into account any foregone income; and (iv) indirect benefits, that accrued to the poor for the
assets created or services provided.

First, the average labor intensity of the construction projects financed was around 40 percent, but most
participants work in community services, with high labor intensity (80-90 percent). Second, the targeting
performance of the Program overall showed that about 40 percent of beneficiaries are found in
households in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution, and 80 percent are found among the
bottom 40 percent, after taking into account foregone income. Third, the net wage gain went from two to
one third of the transfer amount between 2002 and mid-2003, an expected evolution in a recovering
economic environment where the opportunity cost of participation in the Program (measured by the
foregone income- what the worker would have been able to earn in the absence of the Program) should
increase.

Somewhat less clear is the indirect benefit derived from the classical workfare activities accruing to the
poor in the Heads of Household Program. While some of the classical activities are of considerable
importance for the poor as demonstrated in the ex-post evaluation (construction of schools, for example,
or work in hospitals, clinics, schools or soup kitchens), others are probably "make work" activities, with
small benefits (second-hand clothing recycling or handicrafts).

Administrative costs for the Program were about 5 percent in 2006, including financial costs related to the
debit cards, which is moderate by international standards.

Government spending in the Heads of Household Program declined from 1 percent of GDP in 2003 to 0.6
percent in 2005 and to 0.5 percent in 2006, in line with declining beneficiary numbers and a rise in GDP.
Bank financing under the Loan amounted to 22 percent in 2003, 18 percent in 2004, and 3 percent in
2005.

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs              and
efficiency):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Heads of Household Program played an important role of protection against extreme poverty during
the crisis. The objectives of the Bank-supported Project were highly relevant. Overall, the Program was


                                                    22

successful in reaching the poor and mitigating the impact of the social and economic crisis, including
contributing to social pacification. It was put in place very rapidly and reached the poor: with 80 percent
of the benefits going to the poorest 40 percent of the population and covering one-third of those among
the 20 percent poorest, it has one of the best targeting outcomes of the region. It prevented an additional
10 percent of beneficiaries from falling under the food poverty line. In addition to the good targeting of
the income transfer, the Heads of Household Program was instrumental in making the early phase of the
economic recovery in Argentina pro-poor ­ i.e., due to the Program, income inequality decreased
somewhat between May 2002 and May 2003 when growth resumed.

Bank financing, which was limited to the workfare element of the Program, was effective in providing
temporary employment to participants that would have gone destitute if it had not been for the stipend
provided by the Project. These achievements and the improvement in the Project outcome indicators
were even more remarkable given the challenges with the implementation of the subprojects and
compliance with the workfare requirement. To a large extent, subprojects were completed, of good
quality and provided basic services to the poor even if the weak management capacity of the
municipalities prevented the Project from financing as many subprojects as targeted. .

Once the emergency subsided, the Project focused increasingly on supporting the Program's institutional
strengthening and improvements in its management and governance. Starting in 2003, the Project
supported the Government in (1) strengthening the Program's overall governance and accountability
framework through a series of measures regarding audits, cross-checks, treatment of complaints (see
section 2.4) and (2) designing a transition strategy, which distinguished among Program beneficiaries
those that have higher chances of re-employment from those that require a longer-term safety net, to help
them build the human capital of their children (see section 2.5.)

Overall, the Project' outcome rating is judged as Moderately Satisfactory. The Project had a strong
poverty reach: it was very well targeted, it prevented a greater spread of extreme poverty and provided
temporary employed to poor unemployed with dependent children. Subprojects were in their majority of
good quality and useful for the poor. The Project supported effective improvements in the Program's
governance and accountability and advances in the transition strategy. These achievements occurred
despite serious challenges in the implementation due to the weak management capacity of municipal
governments. The Project achieved its expected outcomes. In general, the Project also made progress
towards achieving most of its intermediate indicators and quantitative targets, which had been defined to
establish intermediate steps towards the accomplishment of the expected outcomes. However, some of
the intermediate indicators and quantitative targets were ambitious, particularly given the emergency
context in which the Project was implemented. Nevertheless, the Project was able to achieve its expected
outcomes and Development Objectives in spite of less than full achievement of the intermediate targets.
Moreover, the Project supported substantial progress on a transition strategy, which had not been
envisaged initially.

By design, a temporary work program such as the Heads of Household Program is supposed to be a safety
net until beneficiaries find paid employment. To some extent, this has worked in practice as between July
2003 and July 2006 (the end of the project), 300,000 beneficiaries exited the Program because they found
formal employment. The steady outflow to formal employment has continued after Project completion.
The main challenge to the sustainability of the poverty impacts lies with continued economic and pro-
poor growth that would offer sustainable work opportunities for ex-Heads of Household participants.
Similarly, for those beneficiaries that transferred to the conditional cash transfer program Familias, the
continued implementation of that program would be important.

In addition to its impact in reducing overall poverty levels in Argentina, the Program has contributed to
making the economic recovery pro-poor.          Social conditions have improved and during the second


                                                      23

semester of 2006 the poverty rate eventually fell to 26.9 percent, below the pre-crisis level of 30 percent.
The unemployment rate has also fallen consistently. In sum, strong economic growth has improved job
creation and social conditions, but the safety net now needs to help those who have yet to benefit from the
recovery. Although this was beyond the scope of the Project, the Government is now taking actions to
address this issue under the Transition Strategy developed under the Project.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered or to
amplify discussion above):

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty impacts: see section 3.2

Gender aspects:

The majority of Program beneficiaries (around 70 percent) were women, with an average 8 years of
schooling but very low skills. Nearly a third of them were mothers with two or more children, some of
whom had no prior work experience. While the Program did not envisage so many female beneficiaries,
they placed a higher value on the work requirement than male participants, seeing it as an opportunity to
establish personal relationships and to enlarge their social and economic circle beyond the household. In
focus group consultations carried out in the context of the preparation of the Heads of Household
Transition Project, women were more likely to express an interest in education, commenting that it would
help them raise their children, relate better with other people, and prevent pregnancy and sickness. The
entry of some of these women into the labor force should be consolidated in employment-focused
programs. On the other hand, for some, a pertinent longer-term safety net, as they become eligible for
alternative programs, would be Familias, the conditional cash transfer program, described above.

Social Development:

Perceptions of stakeholders about the program:

In different seminars and qualitative studies (evaluation of the social monitor (2003), social assessment
for the Heads of Household Transition Project 2006, ICR workshop (2006) ), members of civil society
organizations, Government authorities and beneficiaries agreed on two important points. The first was
that the Program had played an important, positive role during the crisis. The second was that there were
irregularities in its implementation, especially in the beginning, and that rules needed to be created for the
Program that would be followed by all.

Nearly all beneficiaries, interviewed in 2006, expressed the view that the Program had been indispensable
to prevent households from falling into extreme poverty, to provide some stability in household income,
and to guarantee a minimum income, even though the household needed to complement the transfer.

Beneficiaries reported that the social value of community services workfare projects varied depending on
the particular activity. They were tentative about training activities and unfamiliar with the option of
working in construction projects. Participants said that small-scale productive activities could be a way
out of unemployment, but they were aware of the challenges facing a group micro-business.




                                                      24

Role of civil society organizations

Different types of civil society organizations participated in the Program: (i) movements of unemployed
(piqueteros) and (ii) other groups. Within the group of unemployed, two types can be distinguished. The
first type put emphasis on reconstructing the culture of work among their members in order to prevent
them from losing their identity as workers. They used the components of the Program, including training
and construction. In general, they did not participate in the consultative councils, but were willing to
improve the Program. The second type of unemployed group fought to maintain their beneficiaries within
the Program, mistrusted the intentions of the Government and predicted social chaos if the Program
ended.

Other civil society organizations brought together beneficiaries to carry out the work requirement in their
institutions. They complained about the same irregularities beneficiaries did. They thought that initially
the Program was necessary, but as the economy recovered, it needed to promote local employment, and
depoliticize the use of beneficiaries. However as these organizations used the beneficiaries' labor, they
faced the same conflict of interest as local governments (see section 2.2): for many, the reinsertion of the
participants would entail losing staff.

Consultative councils

In its initial design, the Program had addressed the issue of how citizens related to national programs by
giving municipalities and local consultative councils a significant role.        While the concept of the
consultative council as an instance of social control was promising, implementation hurdles limited their
role due to unclear definition of roles and responsibilities towards the municipality, lack of information
and resources and no defined sanctioning power. Perceptions about the consultative councils varied:

     -   While the community CSOs recognized the consultative councils as a good space for
         coordination, many no longer participated because they thought municipal employees influenced
         the councils' decisions;
     -   Some municipal authorities managed the Program within the consultative councils, which
         controlled the work requirement and included unemployed who otherwise would have pressured
         from the outside. All participants mentioned that the consultative councils' authorities should be
         strengthened by improving institutional capacity and infrastructure;
     -   On the other hand, provincial authorities thought that in concept at least, municipal councils
         fulfilled an essential function of developing a broad consensus for the Program. Most authorities
         valued their existence, but expressed the need for infrastructure and capacity, as well as clear
         rules;
     -   Council members criticized the lack of communication with the authorities. Often, they had been
         accused of following the instructions of mayors, causing some organizations to withdraw; and
     -   Beneficiaries commented that the local consultative councils had limited influence.

(b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development):

Positive externality on transparency and governance

The Government, with the Project's support, took a series of measures, which helped increase the
Program's transparency and governance (details are available in Annex 2 Component 3) such as:

     -   Expansion and systematic use of internal consistency and database cross-checks to confirm
         available beneficiary information and the continued eligibility of participants.


                                                     25

    -   Enhanced supervision of municipalities with improved methodology of checking files and
        quicker and more systematic follow-up actions.
    -   Improved handling of fraud accusations because of a more systematic referral system to the
        prosecutor's office in the Social Security Administration (UFISES).
    -   Actions to drop ineligible beneficiaries have been responsible, since mid-2003, for half of the
        drop in beneficiary numbers.
    -   Improved transparency of Program implementation through public access to micro-data on the
        internet to beneficiaries as well as local authorities, on the Ministry of Labor webpage.
    -   Switch from payment at banks' counters to bank debit cards, which appear to have lowered
        complaints related to the payment process, including fees to middlemen.

Institutional development at the central level

Several positive institutional impacts can be noted. First, the Project contributed to further technical
expertise of core staff of the Ministry of Labor. The Bank had a history of financing workfare programs
such as Trabajar in Argentina and had financed the training of a cadre of technical staff in the Secretary
of Employment. This staff was instrumental in launching the Heads of Household Program and most
technical staff has remained in the Ministry, broadening their skill set with the scale and evolving focus of
the Program.     Second, the Project had a direct and lasting influence on the quality of program
management, targeting and transparency through its support to the management information system and
the information technology for the Ministry's architecture. Lastly, the Project also had an indirect
strengthening effect on audit institutions and the prosecutor's office in the Social Security Administration
(UFISES) through its support to the control and oversight functions of the Program. The strengthening of
CODEM (call center and follow-up) was also an important contribution to the transparency of the
Program.

Institutional development at the local level

At the local level, the implementation of the Program on occasion overwhelmed low capacity
municipalities and has resulted in heterogeneous municipal management of the Program. As mentioned
above, some municipal governments have used beneficiaries as de facto municipal workers. This has
created a class of public "employees" with no benefits and very little incentives and undermines the
capacity-strengthening of municipal government.         Starting about a year (August 2005) before loan
closing, the Ministry of Labor started to address such local municipal employment more proactively,
including discussions with the Ministry of Economy. So far, agreements have been signed with four
provinces, one national organization (university), and with 40 municipalities in 14 provinces, to
incorporate Heads of Household beneficiaries, as appropriate, into formal public employment, although to
date the numbers converted remain relatively small (5,000).

Longer-term transition strategy

The Program's monitoring and supervision generated monthly detailed information on implementation.
In addition, the inclusion of the module on the Program in the EPH, its analysis in-country by think-tanks
and universities and the rigorous impact evaluation helped to provide evidence in the debate about the
Program. All this information has guided the development of the transition strategy (described in section
2.5.).




                                                      26

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

Negative externality on formal employment in a period of economic expansion (Gasparini, 2006)

Although the beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program were supposed to be unemployed, in
practice only those participants that accepted a formal job faced serious risks of losing the benefit. This
feature of the Program implied in theory a labor informality bias, although its empirical relevance was
uncertain if beneficiaries perceived that they would be able to continue receiving the benefit, despite their
irregular situation or if beneficiaries had little access to formal employment opportunities anyway. By
applying matching techniques, an empirical analysis found evidence of an informality bias for some
participants but only during the time when the transfer was relatively high compared to wages in the
formal labor market (2003-4). The difference between male Jefes participants and non-participants in the
share of workers moving to a formal job was 5 percentage points, although the results were not robust to
all specifications. Such negative effect vanished during 2004-5 (the latest period covered by the study)
when the gap between the Jefes transfer (which remained fixed in nominal terms) and wages in the formal
sector significantly widened. (See comment from Borrower, Section 7).

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops:

Stakeholder workshop (December 4, 2006, Buenos Aires)

The stakeholder workshop included Ministry of Labor staff involved in Program implementation,
provincial and municipal authorities, academics, and representatives of CSOs. Its conclusions can be
summarized as follows:

    1. Due to its creation during the crisis, the Program faced a basic ambiguity: was its objective to
        reduce poverty or promote employment? The Program also aimed at decreasing the latent social
        conflict and promoting the exercise of citizenship through the local councils.          Since these
        objectives did not always translate in the same activities, the Program lacked a clear strategic
        orientation.
    2. Even with its eligibility criteria and enforcement issues, the Program reached the poor. In
        addition, its sheer scale affected both poverty and the subsequent direction of growth during the
        recovery.
    3. Even if the work requirement yielded useful public infrastructure in poor areas, the municipalities
        and local councils did not have the capacity to organize and supervise meaningful activities. The
        Ministry of Labor never had the capacity to either provide guidance or supervise the
        municipalities. This is at least a partial explanation of why fulfillment of the work requirement
        steadily decreased.
    4. Social councils were a promising institution for promoting local social control and participatory
        monitoring of the Program but their responsibilities were not clearly defined and they did not
        have the means or the information to fulfill their duties.
    5. The Program functioned well as an emergency safety net and alleviated poverty. It also helped
        avoid a major social upheaval in a very conflictive context of mistrust of government.
        Implementation on a massive scale also generated a lot of learning. Decentralization helped
        municipal governments better understand local realities.
    6. The Heads of Household Program was the first large-scale program in Argentina and could
        provide the basis for a universal basic safety net, accessible to households and individuals in
        times of shocks, a basic blanket guarantee. However, circumstances have changed and provide an
        opportunity to reorient emergency income support policies toward a more comprehensive,
        sustainable social protection strategy.



                                                     27

During the consultations for the Argentina Income Support Analytic and Advisory (AAA) Work
(September and December, 2006 in ten provinces), stakeholders expressed the view that emergency
programs such as Heads of Household Program were appropriate for the post-crisis period, but there was
need for a longer-term vision and strategy.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

As the Program was put in place as a temporary emergency safety net, its effects were to be transitory ­
until beneficiaries found employment again. It was indeed successful during the emergency and its
decrease by over half until today is itself evidence of its success. Its scale and persistence as the only
massive income support program in place have generated a general discussion on overall social assistance
and employment strategy, which goes beyond the Program's initial mandate and is likely to shape
profoundly the visions and design of future social protection policies. With this, the main factor for a
sustainable movement out of poverty and into the labor market will be continued economic growth.

Similarly, the strong economic recovery in Argentina makes some of the originally specified risks for
sustainability (poor targeting, low value projects, low capacity of municipalities) somewhat less relevant.
The Program was well targeted from the beginning and such targeting improved over time. Although the
Program was massive, it reached only a third of the 20% poorest of the population.

The infrastructure, with materials financing from the Project, proved to be of good quality, well used and
relevant for the poor (especially for health and education centers). Pro-poor targeting of these subprojects
was good overall but with a high heterogeneity within provinces.

The low capacity of a subset of municipalities and provinces to generate projects has indeed translated in
declining compliance with the work requirement but also created a perverse incentive for some sub-
national   governments     to   employ    beneficiaries  of   the   Heads    of   Household     Program     as
municipal/provincial employees. A transition strategy is now underway, to move such employees into
formal public employment.

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase):

Rating: Satisfactory

In the context of the crisis, the Bank team worked quickly and effectively both to respond to the
Government's request for assistance and to help shape its proposals to the quality of design which would
merit Bank support. The team demonstrated strong country knowledge and familiarity with institutional
realities and weaknesses at the central and local levels. The Project strengthened an initial outline
proposed by the Ministry of Labor, by building safeguards to raise the prospects that the workfare
activities would reach the targeted beneficiaries. The Project drew effectively upon experience with, and
lessons of, prior social protection projects in Argentina, especially Social Protection II and III. It adapted
the institutional arrangements applied in those operations to the emergency context of this Program. The
Project enjoyed strong country ownership, as it was based on the Government's proposal. The design of
the subprojects supporting productive activities benefited especially from the Bank's experience with



                                                     28

Social Funds. Timely project preparation responded to the Government's urgent need to contain, in the
short to medium term, the threat of economic hardship for a large segment of the population.

A module, attached to the Government's semi-annual household survey and financed by the Social
Protection III Project, was designed to evaluate the impact of the Project's policy reform objectives and
its performance in reaching the poor. The approach for monitoring and evaluation adopted global best
practices. According to the QAG evaluation of quality at entry, the risk analysis was thorough,
particularly with respect to country capacity and technical soundness of the Project. Mitigation measures
were spelled out clearly in the text and the policy matrix. The assessment of overall risks in relation to
potential rewards of this operation was exceptionally candid. The effective response from the Bank to a
client's urgent request for assistance during an economic crisis was possible because (i) the necessary
analytical work on the economy was in place, (ii) staff experienced in social safety nets could be quickly
mobilized and, (iii) management was able to cut through hurdles to confirm the Bank's commitment to a
relatively large assistance program in a short time. (Source QAG QEA 6).

(b)      Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank actively accompanied the Government in the governance reforms and implementation of the
Program to date by helping to build capacity and in evaluating the impact of the Program. The Bank had
outlined the practical difficulties in organizing and implementing the Heads of Household Program, as
well as potential remedies to influence the implementation process, when presenting the original Project
to the Board in January 2003. Bank support and supervision to date include:

    -   Enhanced supervision of the Project by Bank staff (permanent field presence, frequent site visits,
        spot checks on data reliability in municipalities, twice the average number of formal supervision
        missions);
    -   Continuous monitoring of a host of Program indicators (size, changes in size ­ and reasons - by
        municipality, fraud allegations, etc) and feedback to Government of the results (e.g., Government
        carried out a special supervision of beneficiary files, see section 2.4);
    -   Quarterly and bi-annual monitoring of the overall poverty impact (and compliance with eligibility
        requirements) of the Program using the independent household survey (see results above);
    -   Implementation of specific studies on the governance of the Program, involving also specialized
        departments of the Bank (Annex 2.); and
    -   Inclusion of the Project in the review of control and accountability mechanisms for conditional
        cash transfer programs carried out during the first half of 2006 (see Control and Accountability
        Mechanisms in Conditional Cash Transfer Programs: A Review of Programs in Latin American
        and the Caribbean, Volume 1, Number 1 March 2007).

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

Quality at entry and supervision was satisfactory.       When some of the risks outlined in the PAD
materialized, the team who had extensive knowledge about the counterpart institutions and the country,
reacted promptly and provided additional support to the government to set-up mitigating measures. The
team responded positively to the request for a new productive projects sub-component, which was
implemented by the Ministry of Social Development. It built in a rigorous impact evaluation to document
the impacts of such an intervention (see section 3.2). The Bank helped build the Ministry's supervision
capacity and contributed to enhance the transparency and overall governance of the Program, which were


                                                     29

not among the Project's initial objectives. Continuous analysis of EPH data and several ex-post reviews
of specific components provided the Government with evidence about Program management and
implementation.

5.2      Borrower Performance:

(a)      Government Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

Government ownership and commitment to DO

Government ownership of the Program was overall strong but varied over the lifetime of the Project. At
that time, the Government invested much social capital and financial resources to launch this large and
ambitious program very quickly. The initial phase of the Program, as overwhelming as it was, generated
a lot of commitment from the then caretaker Government, with a focus of containing social conflict so
that elections could be held. A new team took over when the Program started and had to build its own
ownership of the program. Because of the political context and the incentive framework, the central
government faced serious constraints to contain and control some of the municipal practices, especially
with regards to the registration of beneficiaries.     Nevertheless, after the 2003 election, the central
government focused its efforts on pushing a series of measures which increased the Program's
transparency and governance, and thus improved Program implementation significantly.


Readiness for implementation, implementation arrangement and capacity

The scale of the emergency and the unexpected rise in beneficiary numbers (over 40 percent above the
initial estimate) overwhelmed the capacity of Government at all levels. There was no time for proper
capacity building of municipal governments as well as provincial staff of the Ministry of Labor. Still, the
Program was able to expand coverage rapidly and reach the poor, a successful outcome for an emergency
program (Baldacci, 2005). Providing more time for Program design and preparation would probably have
had significant costs in terms of being able to provide a timely safety net during the emergency.

Timely resolution of implementation issues

The Government first announced that Program rolls would close in May 2002 but this was only put into
effect by the Government-elect after May 2003. Thereafter, as the crisis subsided, supervision of
municipalities improved with more frequent and rapid resolution and the MIS provided monthly
information that enabled management to address immediately implementation issues as they arose. As
referred to above, the administration that took office in May 2003 has significantly improved
transparency and overall governance of the Program.

Adequacy of M&E arrangements

The M&E arrangements for the Program, as implemented by the Government, follow best practice, with
(a) the special module about the Program included in the Permanent Household Survey which provides
statistically-representative independent information, (b) the systematic automated database cross-checks,
and (c) the continuous audits.




                                                     30

Adequacy of transition arrangements

As mentioned before, the Program was intended to be transitory. The Government is in the process of
implementing its transition strategy, for which it is counting on support from the World Bank through the
Lifelong Learning and Training Project (Ln. 7474 ­AR) and the Heads of Household Transition Project
(Ln. 7369-AR), focused on employment offices, productive projects and "classic" workfare.                       The
experience of the Program is at the center of current discussion on social protection policy. However, a
challenge about support to low capacity local governments ­ which, in this case, depend on the household
transfers and labor ­ is still unresolved i.e. a transition strategy for municipalities is needed, although
there have been preliminary discussions between the Ministries of Labor and Economy and initiatives
promoted     by the former.     This is a regional challenge, facing other countries with decentralized
implementation of centrally designed and supervised programs, such as Brazil and Chile.

(b)      Implementing Agency Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

     Implementing
        Agency                                                Performance

  Ministry of Labor,    Moderately Satisfactory. Before the 2003 elections, the MTEySS faced challenges in
  Employment and        defining key responsibilities and taking clear decisions with respect to the performance of
  Social Security       municipal governments, management of other employment programs such as the
                        Programa de Empleo Comunitario (PEC), implementation of supervision. From the
                        election in 2003 onwards, the new Government began addressing implementation and
                        governance issues immediately, including the strengthening of the supervision
                        methodology and the MIS. The Government also tackled and addressed delays in the
                        implementation of the subproject with co-financing of materials, clarified the relationship
                        with the Ministry of Social Development around the management of the productive
                        projects and began preparing the Transition Strategy.

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The dimension of the crisis forced the government to focus on containing social unrest. This created a
still unresolved tension between the poverty alleviation and employment objectives of the Program and
affected the initial stage of Program implementation. Despite these initial challenges, the Program
successfully reached the poor, helped contain social unrest and contributed to the initial pro-poor
recovery.     After 2003, implementation improved markedly, with clarification of the roles and
responsibilities of the Ministries of Social Development (poverty) and of Labor (employment). Also, the
Kirchner administration addressed initial shortcomings in implementation, and scaled-up efforts to
strengthen the Program's structure and governance, which improved markedly. It has now addressed the
next stage through development of its Transition Strategy, and will move to employment generation and
local development issues in the transition phase.

6.       Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

1. The Program, building on previously available foundations, was effective to confront poverty in an
     emergency situation. Despite the implementation issues it faced, the Program did prevent
     beneficiaries from falling into extreme poverty and successfully reached the poor. Its dynamic
     targeting approach, through self-selection, was probably more efficient to reach the poor during the


                                                        31

   crisis than a static measure such as a proxy-means test. To do so, the Government built on the
   experience of Trabajar, as a seed program, which already had a core experienced team.
2. During times of crisis, a trade-off between orderly expansion of a safety net and rapid coverage of the
   poor might arise. As pointed by Baldacci (2005), it is unclear whether the decision to strengthen cash
   programs, can result in a better crisis response that an integrated strategy that relies on investments in
   social service delivery. On the other hand, the reform of the latter may take time to produce results
   and may thus not be a viable strategy during the crisis.
3. Enforcement of work requirement is difficult but important to automatically adjust the safety net.
   Control and enforcement mechanisms are key design issues (Baldacci, 2005) to obtain better targeting
   but also avoid resource mismanagement. In the case of the Heads of Household Program, poverty
   targeting was excellent but weak enforcement of the work requirement contributed to the maintenance
   of beneficiaries employed in the informal sector on the rolls even if they no longer participated in
   workfare (or other eligible activities). This may have slowed down the decrease in the numbers of
   beneficiaries. By the second semester of 2006, EPH data showed that a fourth of Program participants
   only worked informally and did not participate in workfare activities.
4. During economic recovery, the impact of income transfers and the design of emergency programs
   need to be carefully assessed so not to impact negatively on labor supply. Design features that are
   adapted or innocuous during a crisis may need to be reconsidered when conditions change so that the
   program does not generate negative labor incentives. More generally, programs should be careful
   about using as a targeting variable the same one that they seek to affect as an objective (employment
  status for PJH, weight for Bolsa Alimentação in Brazil (Olinto et al., 2004)). In the case of the Heads
   of Households Program, one analysis (Gasparani, 2006) found evidence of a disincentive to formal
   work for male participants during the time when the transfer was relatively high compared to wages
   in the formal labor market (2003-4), although the results were not robust to all specifications. This
   effect vanished during 2004-5 when the gap between the Jefes transfer (which remained fixed in
   nominal terms) and wages in the formal sector significantly widened.
5. Maintaining the nominal level of the transfer is difficult politically but effective to promote the
   transition to employment. As the economy recovered and employment opportunities improved, the
   transfer lost value and the widening gap between its level and wages was an incentive for households
   to find other income-generating activities, especially in the formal labor market.
6. Decentralization and participatory management can bring decision-making closer to those in need of
   assistance but division of responsibilities and accountability relationships need to be clear and
   enforced. The Heads of Household Program implementation illustrated both that municipal
   government and CSOs could be more able to target and monitor program performance than central
   governments because they were closer to beneficiaries but also that they could be more prone to
   political influence and subject to weak administrative and implementation capacity. There is no clear
   indication in the literature on shocks about this trade-off (Baldacci, 2005). The participation of CSOs
   requires additional support in terms of information, communication and infrastructure. Allowing
   municipalities and CSOs to employ beneficiaries to perform normal basic operational tasks generated
   a conflict of interest for the municipality/CSO, which lost incentives to promote the reinsertion of the
   beneficiaries in the labor market.
7. Managing a large-scale decentralized program transparently and efficiently requires strong
   management information systems, good information technology infrastructure and adequate
   instruments to capture basic data. Initial instruments to register beneficiaries were too complex and
   the lack of computers and IT infrastructure at the local level resulted in low quality of the raw data
   collected by the program. At the central level, initial hardware availability constrained the proper
   management of the database. Purchase of adequate equipment, use of the internet and capacity-
   building for IT staff together with improvement in operational manuals and supervision contributed to
   continuous improvement in the quality of information. Providing micro-level information about
   beneficiaries to all local program managers helped foster greater ownership. All these improvements
   resulted in increased accuracy, agility and transparency.


                                                    32

8. After the emergency, the Transition Strategy now needs to focus on the structural poor. The social
   assistance pillar of the safety net should focus on the poor and those most at risk of becoming poor.
   The main goal of the system should be to address poverty (both permanent and transient) with
   adequate instruments and provide tools to reduce vulnerability. Programs can be reoriented to
   address gaps and overlaps in coverage. Therefore, the Government is on the right track to provide a
   longer-term safety net for mothers with several children through a Conditional Cash Transfer
   program, Familias and to promote employability for the poor to access better jobs.
9. Its effective coping response to social emergency and its process of institutional strengthening are
   putting the government in a much stronger position to manage and mitigate key risks linked to the
   labor market. Among these ex-ante measures are: providing lifelong learning opportunities to poor
   workers, improving the employability of the poor and providing employment services to ease
   transitions between unemployment and employment (both with support from other Bank-financed
   projects).

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

   (a)      Borrower/implementing agencies:

       The Borrower emphasizes the importance of labor market dynamics (increase in employment
       opportunities, large informal sector) in explaining some of the behavior of beneficiaries in terms
       of labor force participation and formal or informal sector jobs, which are discussed in Lessons
       learnt 3, 4, and 5. In addition, the Borrower questions the finding of an informality bias of the
       Program given the high unemployment rates in Argentina at the time. The Bank acknowledges
       the dramatic changes in the labor market as the economy recovered but seeks to analyze the
       incentives which emergency programs could generate and which could influence beneficiaries'
       choices in this context.

(b)    Cofinanciers:

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):




                                                   33

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

        (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                        Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest
            Components                                                                    Percentage of
                                           (USD millions)            Estimate (USD
                                                                         millions)           Appraisal

SUBPROJECTS                                     1942.00                   2459.0              127%
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                             25.00                    13.3              53%
SUPERVISION                                        12.00                     1.412            11%
MONITORING AND
EVALUATION                                          2.00                     5.9*             295%



                Total Baseline Cost             1981.00                   2479.5              125%


Physical Contingencies                              0.00                     0.00             0.00

Price Contingencies                                 0.00                     0.00             0.00
                Total Project Costs             1981.00
Project Preparation Fund                            0.00                     0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  6.00                     6.00             100%
        Total Financing Required                1987.00                   2485.5

*equipment included (US$ 5.5 million)

        (b) Financing

                                                                  Appraisal     Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds                      Type of                                     Percentage of
                                              Cofinancing         Estimate        Estimate
                                                               (USD millions)(USD millions)    Appraisal

Borrower                                                       1387.00         1888.7        136%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                                600.00          596.8         99.5%




12Does not include supervision by municipalities or consultative councils.


                                                       34

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Table 1: Key indicators and their evolution during the project
Project objectives  Indicators                                                      Target in     Target in
                    Impact indicators:                  Level                       Dec. 2003     Dec. 2004
Sector indicators   Unemployment                        21.5% (05/2002)             n/a
                                                        11.4% (06/2006)

                    Extreme Poverty (headcount)         24.8% (05/2002)
                                                        8.7% (12/2006)13
PDO                 Net benefit to workers              2/3 benefit (2002)          n/a
                                                        1/3 benefit (06/2003)
Components          Output indicators
Component 1:        Number of workfare subprojects      2,000 (12/2002);            7,000         9,000
Workfare and        with materials co-financing         4,708 (06/2005);
subprojects                                             5,827 (06/2006)

                    Number of beneficiaries hired       31,175 (12/2003);           200,000       260,000
                    on projects with materials co-      108,991 (12/2004)
                    financing                           122,409 (12/2005)

                    % workfare subprojects with         80% (12/2004);              80%           85%
                    materials co-financing              78% (07/2006)
                    completed satisfactorily

                    % of beneficiaries fulfilling       70% (10/2002)
                    work/training requirements          61% (EPH 12/2003)14         90%           90%
                                                        56% (EPH 12/2004)15
Component 2:
Administration
Component 3:        Number of supervision visits to     1,050 (12/2002)
Supervision         municipalities to check both        1,512(12/2003)              1500          2100
                    beneficiary registration            1,250(12/2004)
                    information and workfare            1,387 (12/2005)16
                    activities.

                    % beneficiaries with complete       72% (12/2003)               100%          100%
                    registration information            75% (12/2004)
                                                        75% (12/2005)
Component 4:        Targeting performance:              82% (10/2002)               n/a
Monitoring and      participants from bottom 40%        80% (05/2003)
Evaluation          of income distribution

                    Targeting of infrastructure:        $ 85 per capita             n/a
                    inter-department targeting          (12/2005)
                    differential towards the poor in
                    subprojects with materials
    Sources: Permanent Household Survey, Administrative Data of the Ministry of Labor and World Bank Staff estimates.




13INDEC Continuous EPH 2nd semester 2006. http://www.indec.mecon.gov.ar/principal.asp?id_tema=84
14EPH data for second semester 2003; does not include participation in training activities
15EPH data for second semester 2004; does not include participation in training activities
16Ministry of Labor


                                                        35

Heads of Household Program: Descriptive Statistics and Component Outputs

Profile of beneficiaries

Demographic information on beneficiaries, taken from the household survey for the first semester of
2005, together with comparative data for the economically active population in Argentina is summarized
in Table 2. The comparison demonstrates the poverty of participants: on average, participants have 3
years less of education than all active adults. Their households are larger with more children (1.3), and
with a per capita income one less than a third of the average for active adults. These households are also
less likely to have a member working in the formal labor market.

                 Table 2: Characteristics of Heads of Household program beneficiaries

                 Individual demographics           Heads of Household All Active Adults
                                                   participants           (18-65)
                 Male                              27%                    57%
                 Age                               37.6 years             38.2 years
                 Marital status ­ single           19%                    30%
                 Marital status - married          63%                    60%
                 Spouse of head                    34%                    21%
                 Child of head                     15%                    25%
                 Years of education                7.8                    11.1
                 Household characteristics
                 Household size                    5.3                    4.2
                 Number of children below 18       2.6                    1.3
                 Total household income            AR$652                 AR$1,550
                 Household per capita income       AR$138                 AR$469
                 Individual is formal worker       1%                     38%
                 Household has formal worker       17%                    56%
               Source: Permanent Household Survey

Distributive Impact

In addition to the good targeting of the income transfer, the Heads of Household Program was
instrumental in making the early phase of the economic recovery in Argentina pro-poor ­ i.e., due to the
Program, income inequality decreased somewhat between May 2002 and May 2003 while growth
resumed.

Using total per capita household income excluding government transfers, the results of growth incidence
curve analysis shows that the 2002 ­ 2003 period was characterized by negative growth rates across the
entire distribution (-9 percent). However, when Heads of Household transfers are taken into account and
the total per capita household income is considered, the growth incidence curve acquires a downward
slope, with positive growth rates at the lower percentiles of the income distribution but negative growth
rates at the middle and upper percentiles. The downward-sloping curve and positive growth rates at the
low percentiles suggest that the Heads of Household Program was instrumental in tilting the overall
distribution of income changes at the beginning of the recovery phase in a pro-poor way. (Source: World
Bank (2005), Argentina: Seeking Sustained Economic Growth with Social Equity, Report No. 32553)


Component 1: Workfare and subprojects

A. Outputs of Subprojects



                                                    36

Outputs of Subprojects with Project Co-Financing for Materials

This component had a slow start since execution started only in July 2003. 5,827 projects were approved
(including 982 Community Integration Centers), which involved 122,409 beneficiaries. The total amount
spent as of June 2006 was US$49.1 millions, of which US$11.5 millions financed CICs (23 percent). An
ex-post review of a sample of projects found that only 30 percent of beneficiaries assigned to these
projects actually participated (except in community centers, see below). Those who did participate tended
to know something about construction and received additional stipends from the construction contractor.
Despite this restriction, the component had positive results since the works did improve the physical
infrastructure of the public services. Eighty percent of the projects constructed relevant infrastructure and
the works were of good quality. The construction of CICs required the organization of construction
cooperatives. The cooperatives registered more participation of beneficiaries (approximately 10,000 in
total).  This practice seems to have led to high rates of labor market insertion since construction
companies recruited groups of workers as they finished the works. In a few cases, the cooperatives
remained intact and subsequently bid for contracts.

                                     Table 3: Material Projects by type

Types of project                                       Number            Beneficiaries
Educational Infrastructure                               1,834              42,047
Health Infrastructure                                    1,636              24,438
Sanitary Infrastructure                                   080               24,371
Social Infrastructure                                     883               19,565
Productive and Developmental Infrastructure               251                5,947
Improvement of Neighborhood Conditions                    169                4,385
Community Vegetable Gardens                               65                 1,356
Total                                                     5827              122,409
Source: Administrative data of the Ministry of Labor

Outputs of Productive Subprojects with Co-financing

Table 4 provides information on the distribution of activities as of December 2005. About 86 percent of
the projects were concentrated in the categories of agro-industrial products, agriculture/fishing, goods
production (not related to food), and services/commerce. About 60 percent of the participants were
women.




                                                     37

                                           Table 4: Productive projects

                Types of projects                       Number          Share     Amount (US$m)
                Agro-industry                             847           14.1              3.4
                Agriculture/fishing                       1301           22               5.7
                Non-food related production of            2103          34.9              7.9
                goods
                Production of construction goods          398            6.6              1.5
                Production of industrial inputs            50            0.8              0.2
                Services and commerce                     947           15.7              3.7
                Personal services                         121            2.0              0.4
                Rural and agricultural services            21            0.3             0.08
                Construction or building                  100            1.7              0.3
                maintenance services
                Machinery or appliance repair             125            2.1              0.5
                services
                Total general                            6,013          100              23.7
                   Source: Administrative data of the Ministry of Labor

The findings of an ex-post review of a sample of these activities (Etchegaray, 2005) conducted as the
subprojects were commencing their activities showed that:

    a. Beneficiaries encountered difficulties to associate among themselves;
    b. They were uncertain about what would happen after subproject financing ended;
    c. Some municipalities created an area to support productive activities and provided technical
        assistance to groups, but more often municipalities had little capacity to support groups;
    d. Procurement was an issue:             obtaining the necessary three price quotes for materials was
        sometimes difficult, and often, beneficiaries were not satisfied with the purchases made by the
        municipality;
    e. All subprojects visited were weak on commercialization;
    f.  Prior experience of the beneficiaries in the activities of the company was key to the viability and
        sustainability of employment;
    g. Most beneficiaries were working part-time in other income-generating activities; and
    h. There was a need to strengthen technical assistance to the subprojects and to extend its provision
        for a longer period of time.

The design of the Program included a tutor system for the micro productive projects that it financed. All
of the projects in execution had a tutor, and more than 89% of the projects had received two visits from a
tutor. For the roughly 40 percent of projects (1,858) which had completed the technical assistance
process by the beginning of June 2006, nearly 80% were ranked as either very good or good on the
likelihood of sustainability and about 70 % were ranked as either very good or good in the financial
assessment.17

In addition, an impact evaluation using a methodology agreed with the Bank was undertaken in Buenos
Aires.18 Baseline data was collected in December 2004/January 2005, and follow-up was carried out in

17Informe de Gestión 2005/2006 ­ Componente Materiales
18The methodology used a non-experimental approach designed primarily to mitigate the potential problems
associated with the self-selection of the most entrepreneurial individuals to quantify the effect of participation on
employment and income, one year after the program stated. The control group was comprised of individuals who
had attended promotional and informational meetings, and indicated their interest in receiving more information, but
who then did not participate either because the municipality of residence opted out of the program or because of
lengthy details in the approval of their proposal. For more details see Almeida and Galasso (2007).


                                                         38

November/December 2005 (Almeida and Galasso, 2007). The survey included over 100 projects covering
around 300 beneficiaries (treatment group), selected from those projects for which transfers had been
made to the municipality no later than September 2004. Project members valued the technical assistance,
but based on the initial experience, they had revised their estimation of the sustainability and yield of the
enterprise. Program participants were more likely:

    · to increase the number of hours they worked (14 to 18 hours per week),
    · to decrease other forms of employment (-14 to 17 percent).

After a year, the analysis found, on average, no significant effect on average on individual or household
income and on employment status of other household members. However, results varied: females were
less likely to substitute away from other sources of employment, and importantly, income gains were
significant for more educated, those between 30 to 40 years old, and those beneficiaries who had previous
experience in the activity. There was an important element of self-selection, as more able and
entrepreneurial types were more likely to join the Program.

B. Compliance with work requirements

As the emergency subsided, workfare became a less relevant program intervention as revealed by the
slow but steady decline of compliance with the work requirements (see Table 5), since other employment
opportunities became available and the organization of sufficient long-term, meaningful workfare
activities remained extremely difficult for many municipalities.

                             Table 5: Compliance with work requirements

Participation rates    May 2003       2nd semester      2nd semester       2nd semester        1st semester
                                          2003              2004               2005                2006
Work activities
20 hours or more           62.6              58.0               51.9               37.9                  35.6
15-19 hours                 5.6               7.8                6.3                  5                   3.7
10-14 hours                 4.1               5.7                7.5                8.2                   5.9
1-9 hours                   2.6               6.2                8.0                8.8                   8.1
Education                   4.0               3.1                2.3                3.8                     3
Training                                                         1.3                1.7                   3.2
None                       21.1              19.2               22.7               34.6                  40.5
         Source: EPH, own calculation

Component 3: Supervision

This focused on supervising the implementation of the Program at the municipal level. Municipalities
would be supervised periodically to ensure that they had the supporting documentation for each
beneficiary that establishes their eligibility for the Program.      In addition, the activities in which
beneficiaries were participating were supervised, at least twice for subprojects that received materials
financing, and on a sample basis for other activities. Supervision was undertaken by provincial staff of
the Ministry of Labor, supplemented by visits from the national level. Both municipal and provincial
councils would also play a role in supervising the Program at the local level. The supervision of
municipalities improved after May 2003 with improvements in the methodology of checking files
(random sampling with lists provided centrally to supervisors).

Starting in 2003, the project supported the government in (A) strengthening the program's overall
governance and accountability framework through a series of measures regarding audits, cross-checks,



                                                    39

treatment of complaints (Table 6) and (B) designing a transition strategy, which distinguished among
Program beneficiaries those that have higher chances of re-employment from those that require a longer-
term safety net, to help them build the human capital of their children (Table 6, row 6).

                                      Table 6: Monitoring indicators

     Indicator
     1. Program enrollment                              December 04                         August 06
                                                          1,587,261                         1,246,869
     2. Number of formal complaints (total)         July 03/December 04                 Jan 05/October 06
     With allegations of:                               13,356 (100%)                     13,001 (100%)
     -   ineligible beneficiaries                            87%                               98%
     -   extortion                                            6%                              1.6%
     -   irregular payments                                   2%                                0%
     -   others                                               5%                              0.7%
     3. Solution of formal complaints               July 03/December 04                   Jan 05/July 06
     Number of beneficiaries dropped                         4,883                            10,949
     4. Reduction of beneficiaries                  July 03/December 04                   Jan 05/July 06
     Total                                             388,325 (100%)                     311,345 (100%)
     due to:
     -   better controls/governance                          58%                              44.7%
     -   employment                                          42%                              39.2%
     -   transfer to Familias                                 0%                              16.1%
     -   transfer to Seguro                                   0%                                2%
    Sources: Permanent Household Survey, Administrative Data of the Ministry of Labor and World Bank Staff estimates.



Improvement in Heads of Household Program Governance and Management since May 2003

The measures to strengthen the program's overall governance and accountability framework include:
-   Closure of registration of new beneficiaries that month and with no new beneficiaries since then.
-   Expansion and systematic use of internal consistency and database cross-checks to confirm
    available beneficiary information and continued eligibility of participants.
-   Enhanced supervision of municipalities with improved methodology of checking files (random
    sampling with lists provided centrally to supervisors). The Government also took action more quickly
    and often when irregularities were identified. In 2005, staff of the Ministry of Labor visited 1,387
    municipalities, accounting for half of all beneficiaries in the Program. On average, the supervision
    found incomplete documentation in about a quarter of beneficiary files, meaning that the file was not
    available in the municipality or did not contain proof of eligibility. Through January 2006, 60,000
    beneficiaries had been dropped from the Program because of errors discovered during supervision.
-   Improved handling of fraud accusations. Follow-up on allegations improved because of a more
    systematic referral system to the prosecutor's office in the Social Security Administration (UFISES).
    Between June 2003 and January 2006, the Commission for Treatment of Allegations of Employment
    Programs (CODEM) (see Box 1) of the Ministry of Labor received 22,000 allegations concerning the
    PJH and dropped about 13,000 beneficiaries, mostly either for not fulfilling the work requirement or
    for not having dependent minors.




                                                        40

   Box 1: System for Complaints and Accusations of Fraud (CODEM: Commission for Fraud for Employment
   Programs) and Call Center (0800).
   The system for handling complaints and accusations of fraud in the Program improved. It started operating
   more through the internet, procedures were simplified and shortened, and localities could access information
   to check on the stage of processing of complaints in their own area. Coordination with the Call Center which
   is the main source of channeling fraud accusations in the Program, improved. At the beginning of the
   program, the 0800 system received both requests for information and fraud accusations. Individual callers
   had persistent problems to access the system. At peak times (payment times) the system was only able to
   respond to 15 percent of the calls, and many callers were never able to get through.

   A system of standard messages was developed to answer frequently asked questions using taped responses
   (for example, dates of payment according to ID numbers). A standard format for taking accusations of fraud
   was prepared to ensure that enough information was collected to follow up a claim of fraud. Access to make
   an accusation of fraud was through the Call Center, directly to the CODEM (via e-mail or personally), and
   in the provincial offices of employment. Local consultative councils also could receive accusations of fraud,
   and then pass them to either CODEM or the provincial offices of employment.


-   Action to drop ineligible beneficiaries. In all, betwen mid-2003 and mid-2006, beneficiary numbers
    declined by about 800,000 of which about half is due to the various actions described above. Total
    beneficiary numbers are now less than 900,000.
-   Improved transparency of Program implementation. Public access to micro-data improved as the
    management information system became accessible on the internet to beneficiaries as well as local
    authorities, providing data on names, ID numbers, payment history, reasons for being dropped from
    the Program, assignment to workfare activity, etc. In addition, more general information is now
    available on the Ministry of Labor webpage.
-   Payment by bank debit cards. In 2004, the Government started to switch the payment system from
    monthly checks to bank debit cards. All beneficiaries now are paid through bank debit cards, except
    those living in isolated areas (less than 10 percent). Tangible benefits for participants included: no
    more waiting time to receive payment and ability to use the debit cards for payments in various
    installments. Further, the debit card system resulted in less complaints related to the payment process,
    including fees to middlemen.


Special supervision. Beneficiary numbers increased significantly in several municipalities before the
Presidential elections of 2003, between January and May, after Government officials had declared that
registration was closed as of end-May 2002. A subsequent Bank investigation examined some of these
reports. Box 2 describes the special supervision undertaken in La Matanza to investigate increases in
enrollment before the elections.




                                                        41

                     Box 2: Examination of Enrollment in the Municipality of La Matanza

 Bank staff had identified a high risk of ineligible participants or activities in the run-up to the presidential
 elections in April 2003. In response to growing concerns about shortcomings in the Ministry of Labor in the first
 months of 2003, regional Bank staff requested additional fiduciary support from specialized Bank departments.
 An investigation of the enrollment process of the Program in La Matanza, a large municipality in Greater
 Buenos Aires, took place in late 2003. The work focused on the overall Program, not specifically on the part
 financed by the Bank.
 Findings included: (i) claims from a municipal official responsible for the implementation of the Program that
 organized groups of unemployed, not the municipality, enrolled significant numbers of beneficiaries in the
 January-May 2003 period; (ii) that the municipality lacked supporting documentation for those beneficiaries
 enrolled by organized groups of unemployed and, consequently, could not monitor whether these beneficiaries
 met the Program's eligibility criteria and/or fulfilled the workfare requirement; (iii) allegations from the
 municipal official that half of the individuals registered through these groups did not meet the eligibility criteria
 for the Program, including not fulfilling the work requirement; (iv) that these groups asked some beneficiaries
 for payment or to participate in demonstrations in exchange for continued enrollment; and (v) that the operation
 of another program by the Government, not financed by the Bank, caused confusion among beneficiaries and
 local authorities on eligibility and other requirements and procedures related to the Heads of Household
 Program. These findings were shared with the audit committee of the Board in May, 2005.
 The Bank carried out two due diligence activities in response to these findings in May and June 2005. They
 included: (i) a review of statement of expenditures (SOEs) presented to the Bank; and (ii) visits to other
 municipalities to assess the accuracy of the information on workfare in the management information system
 (MIS) of the Ministry of Labor.
 Among the group of beneficiaries from La Matanza in the due diligence analysis, the percentage of beneficiaries
 that were since dropped because of ineligibility was 8 percent, within the margin of 10 percent incorporated in
 the project design because of the 90 percent disbursement ratio. Second, the spot checks of municipalities
 showed that the information in the MIS was accurate as 93 percent of the beneficiaries identified in the MIS
 were working.
 In addition, in the 50 municipalities (out of a total of about 2,200 municipalities in Argentina) that experienced
 significant enrollment increases during the January to May 2003 period, the Ministry of Labor conducted a
 review of 100 percent of files of current participants who entered the Program in the months preceding the May
 2003 election. The municipalities were identified in an independent review of the registry data for the Program,
 requested by the Bank. The Ministry reviewed files for nearly 46,000 beneficiaries, about 3 percent of total
 current Program enrollment nationwide. About half of the individuals reviewed in the special supervision were
 registered in the municipality of La Matanza. The review found that for 56 percent o f these beneficiaries in this
 special supervision, files were either incomplete or missing. Not all of these individuals were ineligible as some
 were able subsequently to provide the necessary documentation. Follow--up actions on all these beneficiaries in
 this special supervision, were completed in February, 2006, as beneficiaries were either dropped from the
 Program (77 percent o f those with incomplete or missing files) or they regularized their files (23 percent).
 Source: World Bank (2006)


All these activities improved significantly the overall governance and accountability framework of the
program. Table 7 (adapted from the CCT Control and Accountability Review (World Bank, 2007b)
shows that the Program had a significant quantity of accountability mechanisms, as compared to CCT
programs that the Bank is supporting in the region.




                                                          42

         Table 7: Mechanisms of Accountability for CCTs and Heads of Household Program

    Mechanisms                    Pros                               Cons                        Where
Top Down
Supreme Audit        Country systems, resources,        Influence/effectiveness depends  Argentina and nearly
Institutions         international standards            on their standing in country     all LAC countries

Call centers         Client service, important in       Needs to operate very well, or   Argentina, Brazil
                     decentralized environments,        can backfire
                     accountability, monitoring
Public prosecutors   Accountability, consequences       Impact limited, few cases,       Argentina, Brazil
                     for corruption                     expensive
Spot checks          Manageable, provides quick         None really                      Brazil, Colombia,
                     feedback on implementation                                          Argentina
Crosschecking data   Inexpensive, quick                 Need to have technical           Argentina, Brazil
bases                                                   prerequisites in place (unique
                                                        ID, IT capacity and expertise)
Concurrent audits    Provides timely information that   Cost considerations              Argentina
                     can be acted on in the short-run
Public disclosure of Transparency, not costly since     Privacy issues                   Brazil, Argentina
information on       program should have
program              information
Evaluation           Most basic accountability,         Delays in results, expensive to  Colombia, Brazil,
                     independent                        do                               Argentina
                                                        everywhere
Bottom-Up
Neighborhood and     Takes advantage of skills/         Depends on volunteers, role      Argentina, Brazil
municipal            commitments in some places,        needs to be defined carefully,
commissions          may be closer to beneficiaries     can't make up for general
with civil society,                                     weaknesses
beneficiary
participation
Committees of        Empowerment of beneficiaries,      Depends on volunteers, may       Colombia
mothers              close to clients, strong self-     become
                     interest                           "intermediaries"
Civil society        Third-party, close to client       Potential conflict of interest,  Argentina, El Salvador
organizations                                           lines of accountability?
Source: World Bank, 2007b.

Component 4: Monitoring and Evaluation

The Program's administrative data included an extensive set of monitoring indicators which tracked
overall developments in the Heads of Household Program and were linked to individual components. In
addition, information on the Program comes from the Permanent Household Survey (EPH) carried out
quarterly by the National Statistical Institute, which includes questions on the Program. The survey data
provide the primary source for an independent tracking of overall Program implementation and impact.




                                                     43

A. Targeting performance


                                       Table 8: Targeting performance

      Indicator
      Targeting efficiency                        July /December 04               July/June 06
      -   Beneficiaries with dependents           90%                             91%
      -   Share of benefits going to bottom       86.4%                           91.3%
      50% of income distribution
         Sources: Permanent Household Survey, Administrative Data of the Ministry of Labor and World Bank Staff estimates


Extent of pro-poor targeting of the Sub-projects with Project co-financing for Materials within
provinces

This component accounted for less than 10 percent of beneficiaries and 8 percent of spending but was key
in constructing/maintaining basic infrastructure in poor areas. As program execution was decentralized at
the provincial and municipal levels, central allocation could be strongly modified by local governments.
Indeed, the analysis (Giovagnoli, 200619) of the allocation of community infrastructure works shows that
the performance of provinces and municipalities varied greatly.

Data on disbursements was available at local government level ­departamentos ­ and was provided by
the Ministry of Labor. Additionally, data on the proportion of households with "unmet basic needs"
(UBN) is available in the 2001 census. "Poor area targeting" (PAT) coefficients - inter-provincial, inter-
departmental (across all provinces), and intra-provincial - were estimated by regressing component
project spending against UBN indicator to show the difference in spending between areas with areas with
low Unmet Basic Needs and those with high UBN indicators.

The PATP (weighted) coefficient for the component spending under analysis was 0.44 and significantly
different from zero at the 1 percent level. The unit of this coefficient is spending per person with unmet
basic needs. That is, under horizontal equity between provinces, the absolute difference in the average
allocation to the poor versus non poor (inter-provincial targeting differential) was $44 per person.
The inter-departmental coefficient was 0.85 (a national targeting differential is of $85) and was
significantly different from zero at the 1 percent level, suggesting that the sub-component was targeted to
poor areas. (see Table 9)

The province with the highest PAT coefficient was Jujuy, with a value of 3.3 followed by Tucumán and
Chubut. The provinces of Mendoza, La Rioja, Córdoba and Chaco all had significant PAT coefficients
around 1. Provinces of San Juan, Santiago del Estero, Formosa, Santa Fe, and Corrientes also had
targeting performance significantly positive but the effects were lower than in the other provinces. La
Pampa and San Luis registered the lowest coefficients. Seven provinces had PAT coefficients which were
not significantly different from zero (Santa Cruz, Misiones, Rio Negro, Entre Ríos, Salta, Catamarca and
Neuquén). Only one province had a PAT coefficient which was significantly less than zero, namely
Buenos Aires (-0.39).

The analysis also considered the horizontal inequality between poor areas in different provinces. In this
decomposition, 24 percent of the inter-departmental targeting differential was attributable to the
allocation between provinces, while the rest was due to targeting within provinces. The higher the


19The analysis follows a methodology originally developed for Trabajar under the previous Social Protection
projects by Ravallion (see Ravallion (1999 a,b,c and 1998).


                                                         44

percentage the higher was the contribution of the center's efforts to target poor provinces to overall
performance in reaching poor departments.

There was considerable horizontal inequality between departments. Two departments with equal unmet
basic needs, could expect to receive anything from zero to almost 80$, depending on which province the
department belongs. As was the case for the Trabajar program, the absolute magnitude of the differences
tends to be larger the poorer the reference area considered (Ravallion, 1999a). Compared to Trabajar,
pro-poor allocation improved in Jujuy and Chubut, remained constant in Buenos Aires and worsened in
Salta, Río Negro and Catamarca, yielding the same level of horizontal inequality. These findings again
point to the limited capacity of local governments to manage multiple labor-intensive construction
projects and raise the questions of the incentive that the central government can provide for its pro-poor
allocation to hold.

     Table 9: Poor area targeting coefficients for the sub-projects with Project co-financing for
                        Materials (spending per person with unmet basic needs)

                       PAT                                                   Value
                       Interprovincial                                       0.44

                       Inter-departmental                                    0.85

                       Jujuy, Tucumán, Chubut                                3.31-1.70
                       Mendoza, La Rioja, Córdoba, Chaco                     1

                       S. Juan, Santiago, Formosa, Sta Fe, S. Luís,          0.91    ­
                       Corrientes, La Pampa                              0.37
                       Sta Cruz, Misiones, Rió Negro, Entre Ríos, Salta,     0
                       Catamarca, Neuquén
                       Buenos Aires                                          - 0.4

                      Source: Giovagnoli, 2006



Impact evaluation

An impact evaluation was carried out using survey data for October 2002 and updated in May 2003. In
addition, the Ministry of Labor carried out several studies of the Heads of Household Program, supported
by the Project. As of 2002, the net income benefit (after taking into account foregone income of the
participant, in other words what the participant would have earned in the absence of the Program) was
estimated as two-thirds of the AR$150.00 benefit. This decreased to one-third of the transfer by May
2003. The transfer also compensated participants partially for income loss and precluded 10 percent of
the beneficiaries from falling into extreme poverty (see Galasso and Ravallion, 2004, and Galasso, 2004).
The results of the impact evaluation also demonstrated the Program's good targeting performance.

Initial pro-poor economic recovery

Using total per capita household income excluding government transfers, the results of growth incidence
curve analysis shows that the 2002 ­ 2003 period was characterized by negative growth rates across the
entire distribution (-9 percent). However, when Heads of Household transfers are taken into account and
the total per capita household income is considered, the growth incidence curve acquires a downward
slope, with positive growth rates at the lower percentiles of the income distribution but negative growth
rates at the middle and upper percentiles (see Figure 1). The downward-sloping curve and positive growth




                                                     45

rates at the low percentiles suggest that the Heads of Household Program was instrumental in tilting the
overall distribution of income changes at the beginning of the recovery phase in a pro-poor way20.

                                        Figure 1: Growth Incidence Curves ­ Period 2002-2003

                                      Household income per capita- total & without transfers
                         80



                           60


             %
              tear           40

                  th
                    owrg       20


                                 0


                                  0
                                   -2
                                      0        20           40            60           80        100
                                                               percentiles

                                                    2002-2003             2002-2003 w/o trans.


         Source: World Bank (2005 b)

The Project also financed an impact evaluation of productive projects (micro-enterprises supported by
grants and technical assistance which were introduced as part of the second amendment) in the
Metropolitan area of Buenos Aires. Results from this short-term evaluation are described above.




20Source: World Bank (2005b), Argentina: Seeking Sustained Economic Growth with Social Equity, Report No.
32553


                                                                46

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Cost effectiveness of workfare component

There are two ways in which the Program could impact on poverty: the first is by providing paid work for
the unemployed from poor households, and the second is by producing services or facilities of value to
poor families. The cost effectiveness of the workfare component of the Heads of Household Program-in
other words, the proportion of total public expenditures of the Program that is accountable to the net
income gain to poor workers-can be decomposed into the following four variables (i) labor intensity: the
share of project costs represented by wage costs; (ii) targeting performance: the proportion of the wages
paid out that goes to poor workers; (iii) the net wage gain: share of the gross wage received by the poor
after taking into account any foregone income; and (iv) indirect benefits: benefits that accrue to the poor
for the assets created or services provided.

First, the average labor intensity of the construction projects financed was around 40 percent, but most
participants work in community services, where labor intensity was high (80-90 percent). Second, the
targeting performance of the Program overall showed that about 40 percent of beneficiaries were found in
households in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution, and 80 percent were found among the
bottom 40 percent. Third, given the still widespread open unemployment, it was likely that there
remained a net wage gain for beneficiaries of the Program albeit such net wage gain could not be assessed
since May 2003 (after which the panel dataset was not large enough to undertake the analysis) when it
was one third of the transfer amount. In a recovering economic environment the opportunity cost of
participation in the Program (measured by the foregone income) is higher and makes the Program more
costly to be sustained when compared to the net benefits accruing to its beneficiaries. Somewhat less
clear is the fourth indirect benefit derived from the classical workfare activities accruing to the poor in the
Heads of Household Program. While some of the classical activities and the assets they provided were
likely to be of considerable importance for the poor (construction of schools, work in schools, health
centers,, or work in soup kitchens), others were probably rather "make work" activities, with small
benefits (second-hand clothing recycling or handicrafts).

In evaluating the economic features of the Program, however, it is important to note that, as of the end of
the Project, the Program was not a classic workfare program. As mentioned above, the Program was
effectively closed in May 2003 and began to decline steadily in size. The likely reduced benefit of the
Program for beneficiaries points to the need for a transition to take place, with a focus on raising
employability o f the current beneficiaries through training, education, and redesigned workfare activities
rather than purely providing public work occupations. It remained important that the transfer amount did
not deter those that were following the work requirement from taking up other employment. Despite the
decline in the real transfer amount (since the nominal amount did not change), for those Program
beneficiaries complying with the minimum 20 hour a week work requirement, the transfer amount in the
first half of 2005 was close to the average comparable salary in the second (poorest) decile. Adjusting the
comparison for actual overall compliance with the work requirement, however, the transfer amount fell
between the expected hourly wage of workers in the fourth and fifth income decile.

Government spending in the Heads of Household program declined from 1 percent of GDP in 2003 to 0.6
percent of GDP in 2005, and to 0.5 percent in 2006. During the crisis, transfers associated with the
Program relieved pressure on the budgets of both provincial and municipal Governments and modified
the structure and distribution of financial transfers from the national Government. For 2003, the transfers
associated with payments to the Program participants accounted for about a fifth of the total transfers
from the national Government to the provinces (nearly 30 percent for the province of Buenos Aires). This
share declined thereafter.



                                                      47

Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A

Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (December 2006)

1. Foundations and Objectives of the Heads of Household Program: Because of the circumstances of the
crisis, participants of the workshop found that there is a basic ambiguity in the Program which is whether
its objective is to reduce poverty or promote employment. At the same time, the Program aimed at
decreasing latent social conflict and promoting the exercise of citizenship through the local councils.
Since these objectives do not always translate into the same activities, the Program had lacked a clear
strategic orientation since its inception.

2. Targeting: Even though the headship eligibility criterion was never enforced, the poor did manage to
access the Program. In addition, participants felt that the Program had a large enough coverage to have a
real impact on poverty, and influence the subsequent direction of growth in the recovery period.

3. Work Requirements: Even if the work requirement yielded useful public infrastructure in poor areas,
the municipalities and local councils did not have the capacity to organize and supervise meaningful
activities. Opinions raised at the stakeholder workshop included that the Ministry of Labor did not have
the capacity to provide guidance or supervise the municipalities.            As a result, the percentage of
beneficiaries fulfilling their work requirement has steadily decreased. As the net value of the benefit (after
taking into account the opportunity cost of the participants or what their earnings would have been in the
absence of the Program) decreased, more beneficiaries were increasing their labor force participation in
the informal sector.

4. Participation: Local councils were a promising institution for promoting local social control and
participatory monitoring of the Program but their responsibilities were not clearly defined and they did
not have the means or the information to fulfill their duties. Participants felt that this raised the issue of
the necessary conditions for social control to take place at the local level.

5. Impacts: The Program functioned well as a poverty alleviation and emergency safety net intervention.
It did not fulfill its employment targets since it did not succeed in fostering greater social inclusion and
higher employability. It also helped avoid a major social upheaval in a very conflictive context of
mistrust of government. Implementation on such a large scale generated a lot of learning.                  Its
decentralized implementation helped generate a better understanding of local realities by municipal
governments. The Program stimulated increases in female labor force participation although it did not
provide complementary services, such as childcare, which would help poor, low-skilled women maintain
jobs.

6. Jefes in the wider Social Safety Net: Heads of Household was the first such big program in Argentina
and participants felt that it could provide the basis for a universal basic safety net, accessible to
households and individuals in times of shocks, a basic benefit that the government could guarantee. It
could be characterized as "an ideal social policy": a unique and massive cash transfer ensuring
distribution in the short-term, which would be complemented with specific social assistance programs
(e.g. for street children, youth at risk) and sector policies (education, public health). As the Program
evolves and tries to distribute its beneficiaries to specific programs that would better address their
vulnerability, there remains an issue about the role of a basic safety net in Argentina. All participants
concurred in recognizing that circumstances have changed and there is an opportunity to reorient
emergency income support policies toward a more comprehensive, sustainable social protection strategy.



                                                     48

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

INFORME DE CIERRE. PROYECTO BIRF -- PRÉSTAMO Nº 7157 --AR
PROYECTO DE APOYO AL PROGRAMA JEFES DE HOGAR.
Secretaría de Empleo - Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social.

1) Evaluación de los objetivos del proyecto, diseño, implementación y experiencia de su operación.

1.1 Contexto socio-político en el cual se implementó el Proyecto.
En el año 2002 más de la mitad de la población (54,3%) se encontraba en situación de pobreza, mientras
que el 24.7% cayó en indigencia. Todos los indicadores económicos empeoraron entre 1995 y 2002,
afectando negativamente a vastos sectores de la población. Cabe agregar que la crisis económica trajo
aparejada una profunda crisis política.

1.2. Institucionalidad del Programa Jefes de Hogar
En el contexto referido el 22 de enero de 2002, se dicta el Decreto 165, que crea el Programa Jefes de
Hogar, cuyo objetivo esencial fue contribuir a superar la situación de desprotección de los hogares cuyos
jefes se encontraban en situación de desempleo.

1.3 Impactos del Programa Jefes de Hogar sobre el desempleo, la pobreza y la indigencia
Cabe señalar que los dos aspectos más importantes que atendió el PJH, en el momento de la crisis, fueron
el desempleo y la pobreza. Por una parte, se puede verificar el impacto que tuvo el PJH respecto de las
tres variables principales del mercado de trabajo: tasa de actividad, de ocupación y de desempleo.
· Si tomamos los datos de mayo y octubre de 2002, se observa que la tasa de actividad (42.9), se
    incrementa 1.2%, cifra que equivale a 25Omil personas. Este incremento de la PEA se explica por la
    "activación" de trabajadores desalentados (desempleo oculto), así como por la incorporación de
    personas típicamente inactivas (amas de casa).
· La tasa de empleo también muestra una variación positiva: de 32,7%, en mayo de 2002, a 35.3%, en
    octubre de 2002. El incremento alcanza a 595 mil puestos de trabajo, que representa un aumento de
    2,5 puntos porcentuales de la tasa de ocupación. Nueve de cada diez puestos generados en este
    período corresponden a beneficiarios/as del PJH.
· Por último, la tasa de desempleo se reduce 4 puntos, desde el 21.8% - la más alta registrada en el país
    -- al 17,8% de la PEA. Cabe señalar que los beneficiarios que realizan contraprestaciones laborales
    son considerados ocupados.
Por otra parte, el impacto del Programa sobre pobreza e indigencia también ha resultado positivo, ya que
logró una focalización selectiva a favor de los hogares más pobres. Esta focalización produjo un efecto re
distributivo que favoreció -- principalmente durante los dos primeros años - cierta reducción en la
desigualdad de ingresos. Este efecto fue demostrado por numerosos estudios, realizados tanto por el
Ministerio, como por el Banco Mundial, El porcentaje de hogares bajo la línea de indigencia se redujo en
un 2,4%. El impacto sobre la pobreza es menor: apenas el 0,5% de los hogares cruzan la línea de pobreza.
Si ambos indicadores se consideran en términos de las personas resultan más positivos.

1.4 Aspectos de diseño y operatoria del Programa Jefes de Hogar

Una de las características relevantes de su diseño fue la descentralización administrativa, mediante la cual
se atribuyó a los Municipios e instancias locales importantes facultades de operación del Programa.
Los Consejos Consultivos Municipales fueron encargados de controlar la ejecución del programa y el
procedimiento de inscripción de beneficiarios/as; evaluar, definir y proponer proyectos y tareas de
contraprestación; efectuar el control y seguimiento de la ejecución de las tareas asignadas a los



                                                     49

beneficiarios en el ámbito de su localidad e intervenir frente a irregularidades referidas al cumplimiento
de las condiciones de elegibilidad y al cumplimiento de la contraprestación, dando curso a las acciones
previstas en la normativa del programa.

        1.4.1 Selección y participación de los beneficiarios
La inscripción y selección de las personas beneficiarias del PJH se realizó a través de los gobiernos
locales.   El Ministerio de Trabajo tuvo a su cargo la conformación de una base única de los
beneficarios/as, que incluía los datos de las personas y de sus núcleos familiares.
La conformación de esta base de datos presentó una serie de dificultades como resultado de la urgencia en
la Implementación.

        1.4.2 Componentes de Contraprestación.
El Programa Jefes de Hogar estableció como condicionalidad que los/as beneficiarios/as participaran la
realización de actividades comunitarias, productivas o de formación profesional. La participación en este
tipo de proyectos de contraprestación exigía una dedicación horaria no inferior a cuatro horas ni superior
a seis horas diarias. El municipio o las comunas son los responsables de asignar a los beneficiarios,
garantizando el cumplimiento efectivo de la contraprestación. Los Consejos Consultivos Municipales
también cumplían un rol importante en la definición de criterios, evaluación y priorización de los
proyectos ejecutados a nivel local.

        1.4.3. Esquema de seguimiento, supervisón y control de fraude.
        a) El seguimiento técnico y la supervisión del Programa permitió establecer, a través de un
        esquema de gestión a cargo de las Gerencias de Empleo, el control sistemático de legajos y
        proyectos de contraprestación.
        b) La Comisión de Tratamiento de Denuncias de Programas de Empleo (CODEM), centraliza
        el registro de las denuncias de irregularidades en la implementación del Programa Jefes de Hogar
        y encauza su tratamiento con la interacción de las distintas áreas específicas de este Ministerio.

        1.4.4. Sistema Integrado de Monitoreo
Durante el plazo de vigencia del Contrato de Préstamo, se desarrollaron un conjunto de actividades
destinadas a fortalecer el sistema de información que sustenta la construcción y el seguimiento de los
indicadores de Monitoreo. Una de las principales actividades desarrolladas fue el diseño, desarrollo
temático y definición y puesta en marcha del sistema Datawarehouse, repositorio de información de
gestión de las acciones y Componentes del Programa Jefes de Hogar. Las denuncias que pueden
configurar "prima facie" la comisión de un hecho delictivo son giradas a la Unidad Fiscal de
Investigaciones de la Seguridad (U.F.I.Se.S.) para su intervención, en el marco del Convenio de
Cooperación N° 288/02 celebrado entre el Ministerio Público Fiscal y el Poder Ejecutivo Nacional.

1.5 Propuesta del Rediseño del PJH -- Decreto 1506/04
El Gobierno nacional estableció a través del Decreto 1506/04 una nueva perspectiva para reorientar la
atención de las personas incluidas en el Programa Jefes de Hogar, promoviendo políticas específicas para
atener dos problemas con características peculiares: (a) la falta de empleo y (b) la carencia de ingresos de
los hogares pobres:
        a) una política destinada a las personas con problemas de empleo y empleabilidad, centradas en la
        implementación acompañado de medidas activas de promoción a la inserción laboral,
        b) otra centrada en las familias más pobres con el objeto de mejorar sus condiciones de vida, En
        tal sentido se trata de desarrollar una estrategia de transferencia de ingresos a los hogares pobres,
        cuyo eje central sea el desarrollo humano.
En este sentido se acordaron con el Banco Mundial algunos ajustes al proyecto, para profundizar las
acciones de atención a las personas.



                                                      50

1.6. Factores que afectaron la ejecución: El Proyecto ha sufrido múltiples ajustes durante los cuatro
años de ejecución, los que obedecen a distintas causas:

       1) Externas: Evolución favorable de las variables macroeconómicas, mejora de la situación
       ocupacional de la población en general y en particular de los jefes de hogar, lo que permitió que
       un importante número de beneficiarios se incorporaran al empleo.

       2) Redefinición de la política Social:
       Como resultado de lo anteriormente expresado, se inició a partir de fines de 2003 un proceso de
       reordenamiento de la política social, buscando una complementariedad entre los ministerios de
       Desarrollo Social y Trabajo, con el objeto de adecuada a los requerimientos de la población,
       superados los primeros momentos de la crisis social y económica.

       3) Internos al Proyecto

       De diseño
       a. El modelo de gestión descentralizada en cabeza de los municipios resultó un importante
       desafió en materia de articulación y coordinación para establecer mejoras en la transparencia de la
       gestión tanto de los beneficarios como de las condicionalidades establecidas en materia de
       contraprestación laboral. Las capacidades y recursos heterogéneos, así como el alcance del
       Programa provocaron problemas en la organización y administración de proyectos viables de
       contraprestación, así como en los procesos administrativos que implicaba la producción de
       información relevante en esta materia, en muchos municipios.
       b. Así mismo, la falta de competencias de muchas municipalidades para administrar programas
       sociales generó problemas de inicio - que resultó difícil superar durante la ejecución del proyecto
       - en materia de administración de bases de datos, así como en lo relativo a la documentación
       requerida por el programa para establecer los criterios de elegibilidad de los beneficiarios.
       c. El rol asignado a los Consejos Consultivos también, resultó -en muchos casos- un problema
       para la toma de decisiones en materia de administración de los beneficiarios y de proyectos de
       contraprestación. La sobrecarga de funciones asignadas en un inicio, superaban las capacidades
       posibles del trabajo voluntario de sus miembros. Es importante resaltar que la experiencia ha
       demostrado que esta institucionalidad debía estar más destinada al control social del Programa
       que a su gestión.
       d. La celeridad con se implementó el Programa tuvo como consecuencia que no se hubieran
       previsto adecuadamente previstos los circuitos operativos e instrumentos de gestión, así como
       contemplar la diversidad de situación que se manifestaban en función de su magnitud. Esta
       situación obligó al Ministerio a ajustar normativamente distintos aspectos durante su ejecución,
       para asegurar una gestión eficiente y transparente. Esto se tradujo en una profusión normativa,
       que en ocasiones resultaba difícil su adecuada comunicación a los ejecutores.

       De la calidad de la información
       a. Los instrumentos utilizados para la inscripción de las personas beneficiarias, no resultaron
       adecuados por su complejidad y diseño para recabar los datos, así como la falta de equipamiento
       informático y de programas informáticos para ser utilizados de manera masiva, contribuyeron a
       una baja calidad inicial de la información de las bases de datos. Esta situación obligó a un proceso
       continuo de mejora y depuración de las bases a lo largo de la vida del proyecto aplicando
       distintos mecanismos para su corrección (cruces de bases de datos, supervisón de legajos,
       actualización de la información, etc.)
       b. Lo descripto precedentemente afectó en algunos casos la identificación adecuada de
       beneficiarios elegibles.



                                                   51

        c. La escasa capacidad del hardware disponible en el MTEySS para el manejo de bases de datos
        tan importantes, comprometía inicialmente el proceso de inscripción, actualización de la
        información, control y liquidación de los beneficiarios, esta situación fue superada con la
        adquisición del equipamiento adecuado.

1.7. Sustentabilidad de la Política
El actual Gobierno ha iniciado un proceso de redefinición de la política social, con el objeto de alcanzar,
de la manera más pertinente a los sectores más pobres de la población. En este sentido se han valorado los
logros del Programa Jefes de Hogar por su focalización en los hogares más pobres, teniendo un
importante impacto en la conformación del ingreso de los mismos. Al respecto, el Gobierno reconoce el
rol importante que desempeñan los programas de trasferencias condicionadas de ingresos para contribuir
a la superación de la pobreza.
Las acciones encaradas por el MTEySS -- propuestas como estrategia de salida del PJH - están
destinadas a promover la inserción laboral de los/as Jefes/as de hogar desocupados/as y la mejora de su
empleabilidad, contribuyendo a superar el problema de pobreza por ingreso. Para promover esta política
se ha encarado un proceso de creación y fortalecimiento de oficinas municipales de empleo, como un
ámbito institucional con capacidad de instrumentar las políticas activas de empleo, procesos de
intermediación laboral, orientación y apoyo a la búsqueda de empleo.

2) Evaluación del desempeño del MTEySS en referencia al Préstamo Ln 7157- AR

El MTEySS, en su carácter de autoridad de aplicación del Programa, asumió las atribuciones y
responsabilidades para diseñar y establecer las normas requeridas para el cumplimiento de los objetivos
del Programa.
Entre otras razones esta decisión del Poder Ejecutivo Nacional se apoyó en la evaluación favorable
respecto de la capacidad instalada y experiencia con que contaba el MTEySS, en particular de la
Secretaría de Empleo, en materia de implementación programas de transferencia condicionada de
ingresos. Esta experiencia consistía en la ejecución de programas de empleo transitorio, durante más de
10 años, con un amplio alcance territorial e importantes niveles de cobertura, entre otros el TRABAJAR
que contó con el apoyo del BIRF, en distintas etapas de su ejecución.
Esta situación permitió, en el momento del lanzamiento del Programa (2002):
a)      Poner en marcha un dispositivo a nivel nacional que alcanzó a la totalidad de los municipios y
        posibilitó la gestión rápida de los procesos de trasferencias de la ayuda económica a las personas.
b)      Contar con un sistema operativo y de gestión, con base informática, que permitía registrar la
        información de los beneficiarios, realizar los controles contra las bases de datos disponibles de
        SIJIP, identificar a las personas no elegibles y cumplimentar los procedimientos de liquidación y
        pago directo de las ayudas económicas a los beneficiarios elegibles.
c)      Disponer de una estructura territorial de gestión, centrada en las Gerencias de Capacitación y
        Empleo, con capacidad de impulsar acciones de coordinación con los distintos niveles de
        gobierno (provincial y municipal), con organizaciones de la sociedad civil y otros actores sociales
        con capacidades para aportar recursos a la gestión del PJH,
d)      Contar con vinculaciones institucionales desarrolladas con anterioridad en todos los municipios
        del país, que constituyen el nivel operativo del Programa más cercano a la realidad de los
        beneficiarios.
Cabe señalar que el MTEySS, a través de la Secretaría de Empleo ha asumido esta responsabilidad, ha
evaluado de manera sistemática y permanente los logros y dificultades que el programa presentó en sus
distintas etapas de implementación, procurando generar y mejorar los mecanismos que aseguran el
cumplimento de sus objetivos. Más allá de los dificultades iniciales, derivadas de la urgencia de poner en
marcha una política de contención para enfrentar la crisis, fueron crecientes las mejoras que se efectuaron
para orientar el PJH hacia una implementación más transparente y centrada en el cumplimiento de los



                                                     52

objetivos de empleo, encaradas sobre todo a partir de mayo de 2003, con el cambio de la gestión
gubernamental.

En tal sentido cabe destacar los siguientes ejes que mejoraron la eficiencia del Programa, la transparencia
en la gestión y al mismo tiempo contribuyeron a atemperar la situación de pobreza de los hogares
afectados por la crisis y el desempleo:

a) En relación a la gestión de beneficiarios:

   · Control y depuración de los padrones de beneficiarios, con la finalidad de asegurar el cumplimiento
        de los criterios de elegibilidad y procurar un mayor criterio de justicia en el cobro de los
        beneficios. Cierre del acceso al programa
   · Mejora de la información relevada de los beneficiarios y de sus núcleos familiares, a través de los
        procesos de supervisón de legajos y completamiento de la información disponible en os
        municipios.
   · Realización de controles cruzados para asegurar el cumplimiento de los criterios de elegibilidad y la
        coherencia interna de las bases. Profundización de los controles a través de cruces informáticos
        con las bases disponibles en SINTyS. Incremento en la periodicidad de los informes.
   · Diseño e implementación de manuales de gestión de beneficiarios para mejorar los procesos de
        bajas, actualización de datos, etc.
   · Incremento de la transparencia del Programa, mediante la mejora en el acceso público a la
        información mensual de los beneficios pagados y transferidos, por provincia y por municipio para
        el total del país, a través de la página web del Ministerio.
   · Acceso a micro datos de los beneficiados (nombre, fecha de nacimiento, clave de identificación
        laboral, N° de documento, antecedentes de pago, motivos de baja, asignación a actividad de
        contraprestación, carga familiar, etc.) a las áreas operativas del Ministerio, así como a todos los
        operadores del programa (Municipios, comunas, otros organismos públicos vinculados a la
        gestión), a través de un sistema de intranet.
   · Mejoramiento del sistema de pago a los beneficiarios, incorporando el débito bancario a través de
        tarjeta magnética. En octubre de 2005 (cuando finalizó el operativo de entrega de tarjetas) el 93%
        de los beneficiarios percibía el beneficio a través de este sistema, quedando excluidos aquellos
        beneficiarios que por su área de residencia no disponían de accesibilidad a los cajeros
        automáticos.

b) En relación al diseño e implementación de actividades de Contraprestación:

   o Implementación creciente de los componentes con financiamiento de insumos y herramientas, por
        una parte aquellos destinados a pequeñas obras de infraestructura municipal y otros a la
        promoción de proyectos productivos asociativos. En ambos casos se contó con el apoyo del
        Banco Mundial.
   o Acuerdos con otras áreas del Gobierno nacional para promover la inserción laboral de las
        personas beneficiarias del programa:
   o Con el Ministerio de Planificación Federal, Inversión Pública y Servicios para la promover la
        inclusión de los beneficiarios en proyectos construcción de vivienda e infraestructura, que se
        dinamizaron como resultado de la inversión pública y contribuyeron a la creación de puestos de
        trabajo.
   o Con el Ministerio de Desarrollo Social para la conformación de cooperativas de trabajo inscriptas
        como efectores sociales y el impulso a proyectos productivos.
   o Con la Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería y Pesca para promocionar la inclusión de
        beneficiarios en trabajos de temporada



                                                      53

    o Celebración de acuerdos con los Ministerios de Educación de las Provincias para promover las
        acciones destinadas a la formación profesional y terminalidad educativa de los/as beneficiarios/as.
        Para su concreción el MTE y SS apoyó técnica y financieramente a las áreas de educación de
        adultos de las provincias para incrementar la oferta y mejorar su calidad, en referencia con la
        vinculación al trabajo.
    o Celebración       de   acuerdos    territoriales  con    actores   municipales, organizaciones    no
        gubernamentales y actores productivos para identificar oportunidades de empleo y planificar las
        acciones de mejora de la empleabilidad de los beneficiarios.

c) En relación al fortalecimiento institucional
    o Fortalecimiento de las estructuras central y territorial de la Secretaría de Empleo del MTEySS.
    o Mejora del sistema de información y monitoreo del PJH --Datawarehouse.
    o Elaboración de estudios y evaluaciones de los beneficiarios del PJH. Características de la
        población atendida.
    o Mejora de la capacidad informática para la gestión: incorporación de Software y hardware.
    o Fortalecimiento de las capacidades de gestión de: los municipios, las Instituciones de Formación
        profesional, las áreas de educación formal de adultos, ONGs, sindicatos, entro otros.
    o Creación y/o fortalecimiento de oficinas de empleo municipales.
    o Mejora en los procesos de articulación de acciones entre distintas reparticiones del Estado
        Nacional, provinciales y locales.

d) En relación al diseño e implementación de nuevas herramientas para la ejecución de las políticas
activas de empleo:
   o Insumos y herramientas: Mediante la ejecución de este componente se crearon nuevas alternativas
       laborales para los beneficiarios, a través de la generación de proyectos productivos, de carácter
       asociativo, apoyados financiera y técnicamente por los Ministerios de Desarrollo Social y Trabajo,
       en el marco del Proyecto del BIRF.
   o Desarrollo de tecnologías que fueron transferidas a las Oficinas de Empleo (procesos de
       orientación laboral, de apoyo a la búsqueda de empleo, de orientación al trabajo independiente, a
       partir de la construcción de las historias laborales de los beneficiarios).
   o Diseños curriculares adaptados a las necesidades de la población adulta para las acciones de
       terminalidad educativa.
   o Diseños de perfiles ocupacionales, elaborados por competencias, para ser utilizados en la
       implementación de acciones de formación profesional de las que participan los beneficiarios del
       programa.

3) Evaluación del desempeño del Banco Mundial y efectividad de la relación con el mismo.

El Banco Mundial ha respaldado el Programa jefes de Hogar desde su inicio, discutiendo con el
Ministerio de Trabajo desde los primeros momentos de la crisis las características de un programa que
con amplia cobertura estuviese destinado a la asistencia de las personas en situación de pobreza y
desempleo. La relación preexistente con el Banco a partir de la ejecución de otros proyectos como el
Programa TRABAJAR, permitió con celeridad pensar en las características de un proyecto apropiado para
atender la crisis.
No obstante cabe señalar que en el caso específico del PJH, el Banco apoyó una decisión tomada por el
Gobierno Nacional, que en sus inicios contó con financiamiento del Tesoro. El Banco apoyó el pago de
ayudas económicas a personas, específicamente a aquellos beneficiarios incluidos en subproyectos de
actividades de contraprestación elegibles. Asimismo, respaldó a los subproyectos productivos de carácter
asociativo y pequeñas obras de utilidad pública (en particular para las áreas de salud, educación, agua
potable entre otros), financiando los insumos necesarios para su concreción.



                                                      54

El aporte del Banco Mundial también resulto decisivo en materia de monitoreo y evaluación del
Programa. Las evaluaciones de impacto y medición de resultados realizadas por los expertos del Banco
permitieron al Gobierno contar un valioso instrumento para legitimar el impacto de la política. Tanto en
lo respectivo a la focalización, perfil de los beneficiarios e incidencia en los niveles de pobreza e
indigencia; como las evaluaciones específicas sobre los sub-componentes: "Proyectos Productivos" y
"Materiales", las que posibilitaron no sólo conocer sus resultados, sino que cumplieron un importante rol
para los procesos de rediseño.
Otro aporte relevante resulto la colaboración del Banco para incorporar en la Encuesta Permanente de
Hogares un módulo especial para determinar la condición de beneficiarios de los Programas Jefes Hogar,
e identificar las características de estas personas y de sus hogares. Dicho relevamiento comenzó en
octubre de 2002, y continúa hasta la actualidad.
Por otra parte, también fue muy importante para el Gobierno el apoyo recibido por el Banco para la
administración del Programa, tanto en lo relativo al fortalecimiento de los equipos técnicos de consultoría
como en la mejora del equipamiento informático, ya que dada la magnitud del Programa, la tarea del
Ministerio se vio incrementada de manera exponencial.
Cabe señalar que el Banco en todo momento presentó su preocupación por la dimensión alcanzada por el
Programa e intentó contribuir en la construcción de una estrategia de salida; en tal sentido fue receptivo a
las propuestas del MTEySS para adecuar las ofertas territoriales destinándolas a la orientación de los
beneficiarios hacia el empleo. Se apoyó el proceso de creación y fortalecimiento de oficinas de empleo,
destinadas a atender a las personas con problemas de empleo y contribuir a mejora sus perfiles para
vehicularse más eficientemente con el entorno productivo.
Por último el Banco acompañó durante la ejecución del proyecto en las reformas realizadas en materia de
control, auditoría y gobernancia. Acompañando a los equipos de la Unidad Ejecutora en los procesos de
supervisión, evaluación y aportando propuestas para superar las dificultades. No obstante en algunos
momentos el Gobierno considera que - el Banco- no interpretó acabadamente las dificultades de gestión
que tenía el PJH, teniendo en cuenta la diversidad de actores involucrados. En particular si se considera
que las administraciones locales tuvieron un rol decisivo en la gestión, la que fue descentralizada.

4) Lecciones y Riesgos

Por la magnitud del Programa Jefes de Hogar y la coyuntura económica, social y política en la cual se
implementó se pueden consignar las lecciones aprendidas y los riesgos en dos niveles:

A. - El Programa Jefes de Hogar como política social de atención a la crisis.

1.      La primera y más destacable lección en materia de política social - que ha aprendido Gobierno
Nacional- es la necesidad de generar una respuesta rápida y masiva de atención a la población en
situación más vulnerable frente a la emergencia social y a la crisis. El Programa Jefes de Hogar resultó
una política adecuada para el logro de este objetivo. A continuación se destacan algunos aspectos
importantes del PJH, los que le permitieron contar con la aceptación inicial de la sociedad en su conjunto:
· Alta visibilidad social de la situación de pobreza y del desempleo como los más graves problemas de
   la población
· Inicialmente constituye una propuesta de la Mesa de Diálogo Argentino (Iglesia Católica y el
   Programa naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo -- actores con legitimidad social)
· Fue planteado como un "derecho de inclusión" destinado a la población más vulnerable, en un
   momento de alta disolución de redes sociales y de crisis de credibilidad de la institucionalidad política.
· Propuso a las personas una forma de incorporación descentralizada que asegura el acceso masivo.
· Promoción espacios de control de las organizaciones sociales, confesionales, de la producción y del
   trabajo que aseguraba la participación de la sociedad en un momento de alto descrédito de las




                                                    55

   instancias del poder político. Los Consejos consultivos desempeñaron un importante rol, en especial
   durante los primeros tiempos del Programa.

2.       Otra lección importante es que frente a situaciones de emergencia social de gran magnitud es
necesario diseñar herramientas flexibles que incorporen un marco de diálogo y consenso entre de actores
responsables de los distintos niveles de gobiernos y de la sociedad civil. Es decir, promover un programa
apoyado en: objetivos que aseguren una buena focalización y en la definición de criterios transparentes de
actuación más que en un reglamento operativo estructurado. Este tipo de propuesta contribuye a alcanzar
mejores resultados si se tiene en cuenta la tensión de una política que cobra un alcance universal y la
atención a problemas con perspectivas de solución diferenciadas.
En este sentido: La descentralización de la gestión permitió una mayor proximidad a las situaciones
heterogéneas de los/as trabajadores/as pobres y desocupadas, así como resolver los problemas y potenciar
las oportunidades. Este aspecto positivo al mismo tiempo encerró riesgos para la gestión, ya que las
capacidades institucionales resultaron heterogéneas desde toda perspectiva.

3.       El Programa Jefes de Hogar atendió en el momento de la crisis, dos problemas de similar
gravedad, pero de distinta características: la pobreza y el desempleo. Como ya fue señalado ambos
afectaron crecientemente -hacia fines de los 90- a importantes grupos de población. Los resultados
alcanzados fueron positivos para atender estas situaciones. No obstante, existe consenso que ambos
problemas se proponen objetivos diferenciado, ya que si bien pueden resultar problemáticas convergentes,
se intenta alcanzar a sectores con necesidades y oportunidades diferentes. Sin duda, las personas que se
encontraban en situación de pobreza por falta de empleo y sin cobertura frente a esta contingencia,
requieren un tratamiento diferencial respecto que los hogares más pobres e indigentes que demandan una
atención más integral a sus necesidades. En este sentido, es posible afirmar desde la perspectiva de la
política social constituyó un "riesgo" considerar al PJH exclusivamente como un "workfare", en
particular por que también incluyó un importante número de beneficiarios/as que pertenecían a hogares
(Niveles de ingreso por debajo de la línea de indigencia, cantidad de hijos, jefatura femenina, ámbito de
residencia, etc.) estaba más próximo a un programa de "asistencia social".

4.       En el diseño y gestión de programas como el "Jefes de Hogar" resulta fundamental la integralidad
del enfoque de abordaje para la atención a la población afectada por la crisis, en tal sentido la articulación
de tres programas fundamentales que se definieron en 2002 permitieron la articulación de políticas
alimentarias, de salud y educación.

5.       El PJH tuvo una importante cobertura alcanzando casi dos millones de beneficiarios en mayo de
2002, resultando de las evaluaciones que su focalización en pobreza fue adecuada, así mismo en un
importante número los beneficiarios participaron en actividades de contraprestación laboral. Sin embargo,
una vez que la situación económica comenzó a revertirse y mejoró la tasa de empleo, las personas
comenzaron a optar por la alternativa del trabajo y la búsqueda de mejores oportunidades, decreciendo
significativamente la tasa de empadronamiento de beneficiarios (1.42 millón aprox. en enero de 2006).
Esto permite afirmar que el programa estaba destinado a cubrir la vacancia de ofertas laborales en el
mercado. No obstante, muchos de los actuales beneficiarios/as aun requieren de acciones específicas que
los asistan en la búsqueda de un empleo adecuado, así como de otros programas de protección social.

B. Aspectos vinculados a fa gestión de un programa social de gran magnitud.
1.       Diseñar e implementar una estrategia de política social de gran magnitud y cobertura territorial,
con celeridad, requiere de la existencia previa de condiciones y capacidades institucionales mínimas para
su puesta en marcha. La capacidad institucional de a Secretaría de Empleo en materia de gestión de
Programa de Trasferencias Condicionadas, vinculados al empleo, permitió el logro de este objetivo en
tiempo record.
2.       Recuperar el rol del Estado como ejecutor de políticas sociales pertinentes y oportunas.


                                                    56

3.      Fortalecer las capacidades del Estado Nacional para articular programas y políticas sociales con
Provincias y realizar alianzas con todos los municipios (aprox. 2200).
4.      Construcción de redes sociales e institucionales para acercar las ofertas de los programas sociales
a las personas (Remediar- Fopar- comedores -- Programa Alimentario Nacional); lo que permitió
regenerar la confianza en las instituciones y acercar el estado a las personas.
5.      Necesidad de incorporar nuevos actores territoriales en la gestión, asegurando la proximidad con
las personas en situación de vulnerabilidad que se intenta alcanzar a través de la política. Esta situación
tuvo aspectos positivos que permitieron dar respuesta a:
· Atender de manera rápida una alta demanda social que aspiraban por incorporarse al Programa en un
   corto lapso de tiempo.
· Generar una institucionalidad territorial con capacidad creciente para gestionar programas sociales.
   Desarrollo de estrategias de fortalecimiento institucional en el ámbito local que aseguraron la mejora
   en la gestión del programa.
· Las Organizaciones gubernamentales que desempeñaron un importante rol de contención a la
   población más pobre, intervinieron facilitando el acceso al Programa. Este aspecto que oportunamente
   fue observado por el Banco, desde la perspectiva del Gobierno es destacable no necesariamente como
   negativo, sino como un mecanismo más de acercamiento a las personas a las prestaciones del
   Programa. Estas organizaciones también contribuyeron significativamente en la realización de
   actividades comunitarias que posibilitaron la prestación de servicios básicos para la población más
   pobre, en materia de alimentación y salud. Asimismo fue en estos proyectos que los beneficiarios/as
   del PJH realizaron la contraprestación. El fortalecimiento de organizaciones de base y comunitarias
   que a través de proyectos comunitarios realizados con participación de los beneficiarios también
   provocaron un impacto positivo sobre calidad de vida de las personas. Aportaron a atenderlas
   necesidades de las población pobre (comedores, guarderías, centros comunitarios y de salud). Impacto
   de las prestaciones y servicios en la comunidad.

Aspectos que implicaron riesgos:
a.      La descentralización de la gestión trajo aparejado problemas de gobernabilidad sobre algunos
aspectos vinculados a la aplicación de criterios de elegibilidad y cumplimiento de la contraprestación de
los beneficiarios/as, estas cuestiones que quedaban fuera del alcance de esta cartera de estado.
b.      Heterogeneidad en los perfiles de los actores territoriales responsables de poner en marcha el
programa. Falta de experiencia y capacidad adecuada de los actores locales. Falta de recursos financieros,
materiales y humanos de los gobiernos locales para poner en marcha un programa de estas características.
c.      Complejidad del proceso de empadronamiento. La presión por incorporase al programa y la
debilidad de las áreas municipales que atendían a la población, implicó la aparición de terceras
organización debilitando los procesos de registración y archivo de la información de los beneficiaros.
d.      El diseño se apoyó en criterios de autofocalización que pudieron implicar riesgos en la inclusión
de personas no elegibles, dada la masividad de la incorporación inicial, en particular por el gran número
de mujeres que se presentaban como jefas de hogar (más del 70% de los beneficiarios), presuponiéndose
que muchas de ellas podían ser inactivas antes de la crisis. Más allá de su situación ocupacional, se pudo
constatar que este acercamiento se debió a una estrategia del hogar, en relación a los modos de
vinculación con las políticas sociales y que se estaba atendiendo a hogares pobres.
e.      Los potenciales beneficiarios y/o los miembros de sus hogares no disponían de toda la
documentación adecuada para acreditar los requisitos de elegibilidad para inscribirse en el Programa y
dificultades para resolver esta situación en tiempos acotados (DNI, Inscripción a Anses- CUIL, partidas
de nacimiento, certificados de Salud, etc.). Esta situación obstaculizó los procesos de empadronamiento.
f.      Falta de capacidad del las instituciones públicas para resolver los problemas descriptos en e.

5.- Conclusiones
Los objetivos del Programa Jefes de Hogar resultaron adecuados para atender a los hogares afectados por
la pobreza y desempleo, durante la crisis del 2002. Resultando altamente satisfactorio su desempeño en


                                                      57

materia de focalización, desempeñando un papel decisivo para la primera fase de de recuperación
económica, ya que favoreció a la población de bajos recursos. El Programa permitió, entre 2002 y 2003,
una importante reducción de la desigualdad en materia de ingresos, en tanto se producía el proceso de
recuperación económica y la creación de puestos de trabajo.
La mejora de la situación económica y social general ha puesto al Gobierno en un nuevo desafío, en
materia de política social, asumiendo la necesidad de encarar un proceso de reorientación del PJH, hacia
nuevas estrategias de política social, estableciendo alternativas diferentes para las personas beneficiarias
conforme sus necesidades, capacidades y oportunidades. Las personas atendidas por el PJH podrán optar
por incorporarse en acciones que mejoren su empleabilidad y promuevan su incorporación en el empleo,
asistidas por instituciones, con anclaje local, especializadas en esta materia. O bien incorporarse en otro
tipo de red de seguridad social con eje en el hogar en particular en los niños, que incrementen el capital
social y humano de la familia y promuevan su inclusión social.

                             English summary of the Government's ICR

1. Evaluation of the Project's objective, design and implementation

    1.1. Socio-political context of the Project's implementation

    During the 90s, social indicators worsened continuously in Argentina with an increase in
    unemployment (from 6.5% in 1991 to 18.4% in May 1995 and 21.5% in May 2002), labor
    vulnerability, and worsening incomes especially in the informal sector.          This culminated in a
    profound economic crisis in 2001-2 after a 4-year recession, which led to a cumulated drop of 20% in
    GDP. Poverty affected 54.3% of the population and extreme poverty 24.7%. Argentina did not count
    with an effective safety net since public employment programs were very small.

    In this context, the United Nations Development Program and the Argentine Churches promoted the
    Argentine Forum for Dialogue, a participative space, which issued some recommendations on how to
    deal with the crisis. These include attending the social emergency, as a universal right.

    1.2. Institutional organization of the PJH program

    Congress declared a public social, economic, administrative, financial and exchange rate emergency
    through Law 26.561, which delegated powers to the Executive to address the crisis. Decree 165 of
    January 22, 2002 created the Heads of Household Program, which made preventive health controls,
    school attendance compulsory and instated work requirement for unemployed heads in activities that
    would support their labor force participation or in productive projects. Decree 565 of April 3, 2002
    institutes the Family Right to social inclusion and universalizes the PJH as a minimum income for all
    Argentines.

    1.3. Impacts of the Program on unemployment, poverty and extreme poverty

    The PJH addressed both unemployment and poverty issues. First, the Program led to an increase in
    activity (1.2%) and employment (2.5 percentage points) rates and a decrease in unemployment rates
    (4 percentage points). Between May and October 2002, 90% of jobs created correspond to PJH
    beneficiaries. Second, the percentage of extreme poor decreased by 2.4%. The good targeting
    translated in redistributive effects, which enabled some reduction in income inequality.

    1.4. Design and implementation of the Program




                                                     58

One important feature of the program was its decentralized implementation with a lot of
responsibilities transferred to Municipalities and local organizations. Similarly, the program created
multi-stakeholders fora to support the management and the social control of the Program. These
included the National Council for Administration, Execution and Control with representatives of the
national government, unions, churches, civil society organizations, private sector. Provincial
Consultative Councils were the instances of articulation for the program at the level of the provinces.
Municipal Consultative Councils included representatives of the municipal government, unions, local
businesses, NGOs and churches.

    1.4.1.  Selection and participation of beneficiaries

    Municipalities were responsible for selecting beneficiaries, checking the supporting
    documentation for their eligibility and maintaining beneficiary files. This information fed a
    unique database maintained by the Ministry of Labor. The constitution of this database faced
    numerous obstacles due to the massiveness of the registration (2 million people in less than 5
    months) and the low technical infrastructure of many municipalities. The Ministry of Labor had
    to systematically check and clean the data to assign benefits.

    1.4.2.  Workfare activities
        a. Community activities: over 80% of the sub-projects with a majority of childcare and
            community restaurants,
        b. Training for Work: Remedial education and professional training
        c. Materials co-financing for local infrastructure (between June 2003 and July 2006):
            Promoted local infrastructure in poor municipalities, with capacity-building in
            construction for participants. The design of this component changed so as to improve its
            pro-poor targeting and include municipalities originally not contemplated. Construction
            was one of the most dynamic sectors in the recovery, so it was expected that participants
            would find employment. Infrastructure included health, education and sanitation. 37%
            of the projects were in Tucumán, Córdoba and Buenos Aires. In addition, this sub-
            component funded Intergrated Community Centers (982).
        d. Productive projects: Group micro-enterprises, which would help improve beneficiaries'
            income and their employability. The sub-component was executed with the Ministry f
            Social Development. SIEMPRO realized an impact evaluation of the sub-component
            pointing to its importance in the households' income generation strategy and to the
            behavioral differences between male and female participants.          These results led to
            changes such as a decrease in the minimum number of participants and an increase in
            technical assistance visits (from 4 to 10).

    1.4.3.  Supervision and fraud control

    Supervision aimed at systematically controlling beneficiary files and workfare sub-projects. This
    included two special supervisions. Over the 2002-2006 period, 1,930 out of 2,200 municipalities
    were visited and 91,287 and 747,634 files were controlled.
    The CODEM commission issued instructions to municipalities for dealing with complaints.
    Improvements to the system during the project included:           a specific computerized system
    available in the Ministry's intranet, a simplified process for complaints about non-eligibility (90%
    of complaints).

    1.4.4.  Integrated monitoring system




                                                 59

        During the project, the datawarehouse system, the management information system were
        strengthened.    This improved the management capacity of the Employment Secretary and
        included an important element of capacity-building.

    1.5. Proposal for transition

Decree 1506/04 promoted a strategic change to attend two different situations: unemployment and
income poverty. This includes on the one hand the promotion of a work culture among Program
beneficiaries to improve their employability and, on the other hand, the diminution of vulnerability of
structurally poor families through investments in their human capital. These two lines of action implied
for the first one:    support to Municipal Employment Offices to help beneficiaries improve their
employability and support their job search; Professional Training to strengthen beneficiaries skills; and
temporary employment and on-the-job training in services, community infrastructure and rural activities.

    1.6. Factors that affected implementation
        1.6.1.   External factors

             o Macro-economic improvements and improvement in employment in general and of the
                 beneficiaries.
             o Redefinition of social policy with a better coordination with the Ministry of Social
                 Development (reflected in Decree 1506 in 2004) to improve employability and labor
                 force participation.

        1.6.2.   Internal factors
          Design:
             a. The decentralized implementation presented articulation and coordination challenges to
                 improve transparency. The heterogeneity in municipal capacity and the scale of the
                 program made the organization and administration of relevant sub-projects difficult.
             b. Low administrative municipal capacity caused initial problems for information collection
                 and maintenance which were difficult to address. The monitoring, control, technical
                 assistance and improvement in computer systems helped resolve them over the project.
             c. The role of the Consultative Councils was unclear and its responsibilities too many for
                 their voluntary members. These were more adequate for social control than management.
             d. The speed of program expansion before operations were defined led the Ministry of
                 Labor to adjust significantly its execution. This resulted in many instructions, which
                 were confusing to local managers.

        Information quality:
             a. The forms for registration were not adequate and the low computerization of
                 municipalities initially led to low quality information. This required a continuous system
                 of improvements during the project.
             b.   This affected in some cases the selection of beneficiaries.
             c. The initial limited capacity of the Ministry of Labor to treat the information, control its
                 quality and issue payments improved as adequate equipment was purchased.

    1.7. Sustainability

The government has started a process of redefining social policy to better address the needs of the poorest
households. The good targeting of the PJH provides an important basis. The Ministry of Social
Development is implementing a CCT (Familias with support of the IDB), with no workfare but co-
responsibilities in health and education as well as participation in community and family promotion


                                                      60

activities. The Ministry of Labor is implementing a series of active labor market activities described
above to promote a welfare-to-work transition of the beneficiaries. These processes are highly
participatory so as to strengthen their sustainability.

2.   Assessment of Ministry of Labor Performance (Loan 7157-AR)
    2.1. Ministry of Labor Performance

         The Ministry of Labor had 10 years of experience implementing public employment programs
         such as Trabajar at the onset of the crisis. This enabled: (a) setting-up a national scheme which
         rapidly included all municipalities, (b) using a computerized MIS since the beginning, (c) relying
         on a local management structure through the local offices for Training and Employment which
         could articulate local stakeholders and provide technical assistance, and (d) relying on previously
         existing local nertworks.

         The Secretary of Employment took the responsibility and systematically self-evaluated to address
         issues and improve processes for a more transparent management of the program, especially after
         May 2003. Improvements included:
         a. Control and cleaning of the beneficiary rolls. Closure of access to the program
         b. Improved supervision of beneficiary files quality
         c. Cross-checks with other databases in SINTyS, more frequent reports,
         d. Design and implementation of manuals,
         e. Improved transparency through public access to beneficiary and payment data in the
             Ministry's webpage
         f.  Access to beneficiary micro-data for all program managers through an intranet system,
         g. Improvement in the payment system through the use of debit cards.

         In relation to the workfare components:
         a. Increase in projects with project co-financing for materials for community infrastructure and
             productive projects,
         b. Agreements with other ministries to improve the access of beneficiaries to other programs
             such as housing, work cooperatives and rural temporary employment.
         c. Agreement with provincial ministries of education to promote adult and remedial education
             as well as professional training,
         d. Agreements with local governments and organizations to identify employment opportunities
             and implement activities to increase beneficiaries' employability.

         In relation to institutional development:
         a. Strengthening of the central and local offices of the Ministry of Labor,
         b. Improvements in the Management Information System,
         c. Studies and evaluations of the program and its beneficiary population,
         d. Strengthening of management capacities of municipalities, unions, training bodies and NGOs,
         e. Creation and/or strengthening of municipal employment offices,
         f.  Improvement in inter-governmental relationships: nation, province, municipality

         In relation to active labor market policies:
         a. Productive projects supported by the Ministry of Social Development,
         b. Methodological tools for the Employment Offices to support job search and self-employment,
         c. Improved curricula for adult students,
         d. Design of occupational profiles, competency-based,
         e. Policy articulation between the Ministries of Social Development and Labor.



                                                       61

3.   Bank Performance and effectiveness of the relationship

The Bank supported the Program since its beginning and the experience with Trabajar enabled to quickly
conceive a program adapted to the crisis. The Bank supported the transfers for beneficiaries in eligible
activities, and materials for local infrastructure and productive projects. The Bank also played an
important role to promote monitoring and evaluation, through the impact evaluations and the inclusion of
a module in the EPH. The Bank also provided a lot of technical assistance to the program management.
The Bank always was concerned about the scale of the project and supported the transition strategy. The
Bank also accompanied the reforms in control, audit and governance of the Program.
The government considers, nonetheless, that the Bank did not always understand the management issues
facing the program, taking into account the multiple stakeholders involved.

4.   Lessons learnt and Risks
    4.1. PJH and the response to the crisis:
         Generating a massive and rapid response to social emergency and crisis required a wide base
         support through the relevance of the problems addressed and the promotion of participation with
         the Consultative Councils. Flexible instruments, which incorporated a dialogue with all levels of
         government and civil society were necessary: good targeting and transparency are crucial. Local
         management enabled a better response but depended crucially on local capacity. Poverty and
         unemployment were related but not equivalent problems: Considering PJH only as a workfare
         program was a risk as it also played the role of a basic social safety net. The crisis required an
         integrated response and the articulation between health, education and food policies. As the
         economic crisis subsided, many beneficiaries opted for work but remaining beneficiaries require
         either specific support for their insertion in the labor market or other social protection programs.

    4.2. Management of a large-scale social program
         Designing and implementing such a program required pre-existing conditions and institutional
         capacity, available in the Secretary of Employment. It was necessary to recover the role of the
         State as an executor of adequate social policies, which could articulate with local governments
         and help social and institutional networks. New actors were included such as NGOs.
         Risks included: local governance with respect to eligibility and compliance with the work
         requirements, heterogeneity in management capacity and lack of human, physical and financial
         resources, complexity in the registration process with the intervention of other actors, self-
         targeting and the inclusion of inactive persons such as women, lack of supporting documentation
         and low capacity of local institutions to provide them.

5.   Conclusions

The objectives of the PJH were relevant to the issues facing households affected by poverty and
unemployment.      Its focalization was very good and influenced the initial pro-poor recovery.           The
improvement of socio-economic conditions presents new challenges to the government and the necessity
of a transition strategy for the remaining half of the beneficiaries (915,000): either through employment
services or through investments in human capital of the children.




                                                        62

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                      63

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Almeida, Rita and Emanuela Galasso, E. (2007). Jump-Starting Self- Employment? Evidence among
Welfare Participants in Argentina.     Processed, 27 pp. The World Bank, Development Economics
Research Group.

Baldacci, Emanuele (2005). Covariate Shocks and Social Protection Response in Latin America and the
Caribbean: Lessons Learned and Knowledge Gaps. Processed, 107 pp. The World Bank, Latin America
and the Caribbean Region, Human Development Department, Social Protection Group.

Cafferata, Agustín, Horacio Chitarroni, and Elsa Cimillo. (2005). Población Beneficiaria del PJHD que
solicitó Traslado al Plan Familias. SIEMPRO, Buenos Aires, processed.

Etchegaray, Ana (2005) "Revision de una Muestra de Proyectos. Componente de Insumos y Materiales
(Tipologia 6). Programa Jefes y Jefas de Hogar Desocupados", Buenos Aires, processed

Galasso, Emanuela (2004) "An update on the impact of the program Jefes y Jefas", The World Bank,
processed.

Galasso, Emanuela and Martin Ravallion (2004) "Social Protection in a Crisis: Argentina's Plan Jefes y
Jefas", World Bank Economic Review, 18(3): 367-399.

Galasso, Emanuela, Martin Ravallion and Augustin Salvia (2004) "Assisting the Transition from
Workfare to Work: Argentina's Proempleo Program", Industrial and Labor Relations Review, 57(5): 128-
142.

Galasso, Emanuela, Martin Ravallion, Teodoro Lazo and Ernesto Philipp (2005).           "What Can Ex-
Participants Reveal about a Program's Impact?" Journal of Human Resources, 40(5), pp. 208-230

Garber, Carolina. (2007). Taller sobre los Resultados del Proyecto de Protección Social VI
Apoyo al Programa Jefes y Jefas de Hogar 4 de diciembre de 2006, Buenos Aires, processed.

Gasparini, Leonardo, Francisco Haimovich and Sergio Olivieri (2006) "Labor Informality Effects of the
Programa Jefes de Hogar", CEDLAS, Universidad Nacional de la Plata, Argentina, processed

Giovagnoli, P. 2006. Note on the Targeting Performance of the Jefes de Hogar Program. Buenos Aires,
Processed, 6 pp.

Goldbert, L. 2006. ¿Derecho a la inclusion o Paz Social? El Programa para Jefes/as de Hogares
Desocupados. Capítulo 10 in Franco, R. y J. Lanzaro. Política y Políticas Públicas en los Procesos de
Reforma Latinoamericanos. Mexico, DF: FLACSO-Mexico, CEPAL.

Lindert, Kathy, Emmanuel Skoufias and Joseph Shapiro. 2005. Redistributing Income to the Poor and
the Rich: Public Transfers in Latin America and the Caribbean. Working Paper for LACEA 2005
meetings.

Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social, Informe de Gestión 2005/2006, Componente
Materiales ­ Tipologia 6



                                                   64

Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social, Subsecretaria de Programación Tecnica y Estudios
Laborales, Dirección de Estudios y Formulación de Políticas de Empleo, Segunda Evaluación del
Programa Jefas y Jefes de Hogar

Monitor del Sector Social. (2003). Monitoreo del Programa Jefes y Jefas de Hogar Desocupados.
Relevamiento de los Aglomerados Urbanos del Gran Buenos Aires, Gran Mendoza, Gran Formosa.
Informe Final. Buenos Aires, processed.

Olinto, P., S. Morris, R. Flores, E. A. F. Nilson, and A. C. Figueiro.(2004). Conditional cash transfers are
associated with a small reduction in the rate of weight gain of preschool children in northeast Brazil.
Journal of Nutrition134 (9).

Ravallion, Martin (1999a) "Appraising Workfare", World Bank Research Observer, 1999, 14(1): 31-48.

Ravallion, Martin (1999b) "Monitoring Targeting Performance when Deecntralized Allocations to the
Poor are Unobserved", World Bank Policy Research Working Paper # 2080, 29 pp. World Bank,
Washington DC

Ravallion, Martin (1999b) "Are Poorer States Worse at Targeting their Poor?" Mimeo,
Development Research Group, World Bank.

Ravallion, Martin. 1998, "Reaching Poor Areas in a Federal System", Policy Research Working
Paper 1901, World Bank, Washington DC.



Smulovitz, Catarina. (2006).     Diseño y Gestión del Plan Jefes/as de Hogares Desocupados. The World
Bank, Buenos Aires, processed.

Smulovitz, Catarina (2004). Evaluation of Municipal Actions and Policies to Promote the Employability
of the Beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program: An Analysis of Six Municipalities. The World
Bank, processed.

University of Tres de Febrero, Social Assessment of the Heads of Household Program (2004).The World
Bank, processed.

Vasquez, Maria Claudia. (2006). Proyecto de Protección Social VI.            Componente de Materiales -
Revisión ex-post de proyectos. The World Bank, Buenos Aires, processed.

The World Bank. (2002). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan of US$600 million to the
Government of Argentina for support the Jefes de Hogar Program. Social Protection VI. Report
No.23710-AR

The World Bank. (2003). IBRD Program Document for a Proposed Economic and Social Transition
Structural Adjustment Loan in the Amount of US$500 million to Argentine Republic. Report 25860-AR

The World Bank. (2004). Country Assistance Strategy for Argentina -Report No. 27340-AR and
Supplemental Note

The World Bank. (2005a). Technical Memorandum. Argentina ­ Heads of Household Project, Report on
Due Diligence Tests - June 10, 2005. The World Bank, processed.



                                                     65

The World Bank (2005b). Argentina: Seeking Sustained Economic Growth with Social Equity, Report
No. 32553.

The World Bank. (2006). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan of US$350 million to the
Government of Argentina for a Heads of Household Transition Project. Report No. 32463 ­ AR

The World Bank. (2007a). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan of US$200 million to the
Government of Argentina for a Lifelong Learning and Training project. Report No. 3924 ­ AR

                  (2007b). Control and Accountability Mechanisms in Conditional Cash Transfer
Programs: A Review of Programs in Latin America and the Caribbean. Social Protection, Human
Development Department in collaboration with the Operational Services Department, Latin America and
the Caribbean Region. Operational Innovations in Latin America and the Caribbean, Vol.1 No.1.




                                                 66

