Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rwt  No. 7535-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
APRIL 21, 1989
Brazil Country Department
lThis document has a restrkted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of



W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IY
Currency Unit - Novo Cruzado
NCz$1.00   - 0.964
US$1.00    - 1.037
OTN        - US$8.06
FISJnL ER
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL Wt ONLY
MAUL
TIKOF CTUhT                            Zm5
AND PROWCT SNARY              . .......     iii
GLSARY OF  ain                                                            * . . . . . .              v
DEFINITIONS.   .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .    .  .  .    .  .  .  vii
I.   COUNTRY HEALTH DEVELOPNT
A.   Population, Heaith and Nutrition Status. . . . . . . 1
B.   Institutions and Policies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
C.   Health Sector Expenditures and Financing . . . . . . 3
D.   Bank Lending in the Health Sector. . . . . . . . . . 3
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Population and Migration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
B.   Health Indicators and Malaria Incidence . . . . . . 6
C.   Frontier Malaria: A Moving Target . . . . . . . . . 8
III. ORGANIZATION AND STRATEGIES FOR MALARIA CONTROL
A.   Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
B.   Malaria Control Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
C.   The Adjusted Control Program. . . . . . . . . . . . 13
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept and Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . 14
B.   Main  Features   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
C.   Detailed Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal missior consisting of
Messrs. B. Liese (Mission Leader), 0. Echeverri (Public Health Specialist),
J. Wilson (Anthropologist), and R. Gilbert (Financial Analyst), which
visited Brazil in October-November 1988.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Li
zag
V.    PRJE   COSTS AND  NANIN
A.   Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
S.   Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
C.   Procurement.   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . 24
D.   Disbursoemnts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
E.   Accounts and Audits .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 26
VI. P?RWIT INPLNIZT&TIOU
A.   Project Organization and Managemnt. . . . . . . . . 27
B.   Status of Project Preparation. . . . . . . . . . . . 28
VII.  IROJCT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Environmertal Impact ......  ..  .          ..  .  ..  .   .  28
B.   Project  Ber.efits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   29
C.   Project  Risks.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  29
VIII. AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOIQEIDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
1    Population Data, Average Annual Rates of Growth, 1970-80 . . .  32
la   Malaria: Annual Pa:asitic Incidence 1983-87. . . . . . . . . . 32
2    Epidemiological Data on Malaria - 1987 . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
3    Municipalities with Largest Number of Recorded Malaria Cases .  34
4    Epidemiological Characteristics of Mining Camps. . . . . . . .  35
5    Mining Camps with More than 200 Cases of Malaria . . . . . . . 36
6    Population Fluctuations in Garimpo Maria Bonita. . . . . . . . 38
7    Para State Garimros Identified by SUCAM (to 1985). . . . . . . 39
8    Epidemiological Characteristics of Human Settlements . . . . . 40
9    Epidemiological Characteristics of Urban Malaria Transmission.  41
10   Pesticide Application: Houses Sprayed 1983-87. . . . . . . . . 42
11 Safe Use of Pesticides    ..43
12   Training Schedule for SUCAK - Year One . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
13   Malaria Chemotherapies and Drug Resistance . . . . . . . . . . 49
14   Malaria Research Institutions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
15   Inter-institutional Actions: SUCAM and the SUDS. . . . . . . .  51
16   Health in Amerindian Areas .....  .   ........  .              .  .   .  52
17   Cost   Tables.     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    53
18   SUCAM Budget Expenditures 1988/89. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  57
19   Key Project Indicators ......             . ...........  .           .  58
20   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
21   SUCJAU Organization Chart ......            . .........  .       .   .  60
22   Project Organization Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
23   Selected Background Documents Available in Project File. . . . 62
24   Maps . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65



UkI
hinrrowr            Federative Republic of Brazil
Pr*lee& A:I-u-n    Ministry of Health - MOH, and the Superintendency
&BMW:               for Public Herlth Campaigns - SUCAM.
US$99.0  million equivalent
lam.                Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
ProiSc             'The project aims to reduce malaria transmisslon in
Objective           Amazonia and prevent its reintroduction to areas nov
under control. It also will seek to increase SUCAK's
organizational efficiency and responsiveness to changing
conditiors in the field.
Projoet             The project has two components: (i) A Malaria Control
Description:        Program supporting epidem'ological and entomological
surveillance, treatment of cases, source reduction
projects, vector control, comunity participation/
education activities. and endemic disease control
activities in Amerindian areas; and (ii) Institutional
Strengthening of SUCAK focusing on in-<.6rvice training,
district offices, computerized information systems,
operational research, and inter-institutional actions.
bhneficiariea:      The project will benefit all inhabitants of the project
area, approximately 16 million individuals. It will
especially benefit the new settlers, placer miners
(garimpeiros), and Amerindians of the region.
Project             The major benefits expected are: (i) a reductiun in the
innfita:            rate of transmission of malaria in the region (ii)
prevention of its reintroduction to areas where it has
already been brought under control; and (iii)
reinforcement of SUCAM and adjustment of its malaria
control strategy to better deal with a changing malaria
situation.



iv
Projiect RiLk:       Low salaries and harsh and sometimes dangerous working
conditions may hamper SUCAM's ability to acquire staff.
This risk is being addressed through acquisition of
staff through municipalities and state secretariats of
health which pay better wages.
Zati=ated Ggsts:*
(US$ millions)            Foreign       Total
Program                   Local      Foreign   Total       Exchange   Base Cost
A. Malaria Prevention
and Control Program   92.4        38.1      130.5      29.0           78.0
B. Institutional
Development Program   24.3        12.4       36.7      34.0           22.0
C. Repayment of PPF          .2         .7        .9       78.0           1.0
Total Base Costs         117.0       51.2      168.2       30.0         100.0
Physical Contingencies    5.5         3.5        9.0       39.0           5.0
Price Contingencies       14.0        6.8       20.8       33.0          12.0
Total Project Costs      136.5       61.5      198.0       31.0         118.0
Financing Plan:*                Local           Foreign              Total
($US millions)
Federal Government   99.0            0.0                    99.0
IBRD                  37.5          61.5                    99.0
Total      136.5          61.5                   198.0
Estimated Disbursem3nts:
Bank FY:      1990      1991       1992       1993       1994      1995**
Annual      18.9      19.8       19.1       20.5      19.5        1.2
Cumulative      18.9      38.7       57.8       78.3       97.8      99.0
Estimated Project ComDletion Date:        December 31, 1994
Estimated Rate of Return:                 not applicable
Staff Appraisal ReRort:                   No. 7535-BR
Sa 8:                                    IBRD 21334 - 21337
* excluding taxes
** one half year
Figures may not add up due to rounding.



v
aSa3Y O
ADR            Administracao de Distrito Regional
Regional District Headquarters (FUNAI)
AIS            Acoss Integradas do Saude
Integrated Health Actions
CDKE           Central de Medicamntos
Drug Distribution Center
CiS            Comisao Interinatitucional para Saud*
Interinstitutional Health Comlssion
COGEP          Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Projetos
Coordination Unit of Projects Kanagement (SUCAK)
COPLAN         Coordenadoria de Planejamento do SUCAK
Planning Coordination Unit of SUCAM
CRIS           Regional Interinstitutional Coinission for Health
DAF            Departamento de Administracao Financeira
Financial Administration Department (SUCAM)
DECEN          Departamento de Controle de Endemias
Endemic Diseased Control Department (SUCAM)
DIRES          Diretorias Regionais
Regiona' Health Directorates
DNOS           Departamento Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
National Department of Sanitation Works
DP             Departamento de Pessoal
Personnel Department (SUCAM)
FINSOCIAL      Fundo de Interesse Social
Fund for Investwent in the Social Sector
FIOCRUZ        Fundacao Instituto Oswaldo Cruz
Oswaldo Cruw Institute Foundation
FSESP          Fundacao Servicos do Saude Publica
Public Health Services Foundation
FUNAI          Fundacao Nacional do Indio
National Indian Foundation



vi
IBAM            instituto Brasileiro de Ad.inistracao Municipal
Brazilian Institute for Municipal Administration
IEC             Information, Education, and Co_nunication
INAN            Instituto Nacional d. Alimentaceo e Nutricao
National Food and Nutrition Institute
INRKPS         Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica a Previdencia Social
National Institute for Social Security and Medical Assistance
INCRA           Instituto Nacional d. Colonizacao a Reforma Agraria
National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
INPA            Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia
National Amazon Research Institute
MOH             Ministry of Health
MPAS            Ministerio de Previdencia e Assistencia Social
Ministry of Social Security and Welfare
OTN             Obrigacao do Tesouro Nacional
National Treasury Bond
PA;HO           Pan American Health Organization
PIASS           Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
Program for Grassroots Health and SAnitation Actions
PN              Posto de Notificacao
Notification Post
POLONOROESTE   Programo  para o Desenvolvimento do Nororeste
Northwest Region Development Program
SES             Secretaria de Estado de Saude
State Health Secretariat
SUCAM           Supirintendencia para Campanhas de Saude Publica
Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns
SUDS           Sistemas Unificados e Descentralizados de Saude
Unified and Decentralized Health Systems
SUER           Superintendencia Regional da FUNAI
Regional Superintendency of FUNAI
TAC            Technical Advisory Committee (COGEP/SUCAM)



viL
uL
AMA     SE&AI    ThLIOK.
Rate of Population      Rate of natural increase adjusted for (not)
Growth:                 migration expressed as a percentage of the total
population in a given year.
Total Fertility         The average number of children that would be born
Rate:                   alive to a t:oaan during her lifetime if she were to
pass throuSh her childbearing years conforming to the
age-specific fertility rates of a given year.
Infant Hortality        Annual number of deaths of infants under 1 year per
Rate:                   1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy:        Average number of years children born in the same
year can expect to live if morcality rates for each
age/sex group remain the same in the future.
Morbidity:              The frequency of disease and illness in a population.
Falciparum Malaria:    A severe type ef malaria caused by PLA m2.dLu
falci2arum, a species of malaria parasite.
Annual Parasite         Number of people with positive blood slides col-
Incidence (API):        lected over a one-year period per 1,OGO population.
Prevalence Rate:        The number of persons having a particular disease at
a given point in time per population at risk. Usually
expressed per 1000 persons per year.
Slide Positivity        Number of positive blood slides per 100 slides
Rate (SPR):             collected.
Active Case             Surveillance activities in which the malaria services
Detection:              actively search for new malaria cases through the
collection of blood slides and epidemiological
investigations.
Passive Case            The surveillance activiti,s in which the public
Detection:              health and medical services, other than the regularly
constituted malaria service, assist the latter by
searching for malaria cases by the collection of
blood slides and epidemiological investigations.



viii
Notification Post:      Volunteer-run SUCAf  installation which carries out
passive case detection and treatment of febrile
patients.
Gariupo:                A manu.sl mining siti. Operated by 'gariu.poircsa  for
extraction of gold, tin, and other minerals.
Carimpeiro:             Kixer utilizing manual labor and only small
motorized equipment, alro known as placer
2in.r or prospector.



EAI
I3 CC1 UIAfX E Th0InrLXE 'TU
A.                                m Mrat
1.1.            Brazil has a population of approximately 136 million (1986
estimate). The average annual race of growth has slowed from 2.5 percent
per year in the 1970s to 2 percent per year during the 1980s. The growth
rate is expected to fall to 1.8 percent by the year 2000. This reflects a
decline in total fertility frn. 6.3 in the 1960s co 3.6 today due primarily
to the increased use of conrraceptives. The population is relatively young
with 38 percent under age 15. It is distributed unevenly across an
expansive national territory; population derzity ranges from 0.34
inhabitants per km2 in the state of Rorima to 56 per km2 in the Southeast
region. Brazil has become a highly urbanized country with 73 percent of its
population living in cities. For several decades rural to urban migration
has accelerated rapidly and during the 1970s the country experienced an
absolute decline in rural population. Brazil is also a country of vast
proportions with an extensive and sparsely populated interior. Over half of
Brazil. lies under lowland tropical rainforest in the Amazon basin. In
recent years this region has attracted many migrant families frc. all parts
of the country and Brazil's Amazonian population has now grown to an
estimated 16 willion.
1.2.            Health conditions in Brazil are poor despite the country's
overall level of economic development, Life expectancy at birth is
e3tiLated at 65 years and infant mortality at 65 per 1000 live births "World
Devel3pment Report 1988).   By these indicators, Brazil ranks lower than
Coloi:',Ja and Mexico.   The impoverished and densely populated states of the
Northeast reduce the national averages considerably; life expectancy and
infant mortality for the Northeast are 51 and 123/1000, respectively. These
indicators are also low for the Amazon region (62 and 100/1000,
respectively).   Differences in health status between these regions and the
more developed Southeast reflect great disparities in income level,
sanitation, education, as well as quality and availebility of basic health
services. In most parts of the country, diarrhea and respiratory infections
are the leading causes of infant death, followed by perinatal causes. The
major vector borne diseases found in Brazil are malaria, schistosomiasis,
Chagas' disease, leishmaniasis, leprosy and onchocerciasis. Malaria is by
far the most prevalent (restricted primarily to Amazonia) and brings with it
the greatest economic and social burden.
B. Instituti         Policies
1.3.            Federal.  The Brazilian public health sector is dominated by
two institutions, the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the National Institute
for Social Security and Medical Assistance (INAMPS). MOH has been
responsible for setting national health policy and for most of Brazil's
basic/preventive health nrograms, as witnessed by its supervision of several
important sectoral agene:ies: the Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns
(SUCAM), the Foundation for Public Health Services (FSESP), and the National



2
Institute for Food and Nutrition (INAN). Under the national health
insurance system, financed primarily by payroll taxes and row covering about
90 percent of all Brazilians, INAMPS oversees reimbursemert of both public
and private medical care provided tc individuals (primarily in hospitals)
and providea some irdividual curative care through a small netvork of its
own facilities. More than tlree quarters of public spending for health goes
through INAKPS giving it a much higher profile than the MOH.
1.4.           There are three major federal institutions, supervisee by
KOH, responsible for endemic disease control: (i) the Special Public Health
Services Foundation (FSESP) whicia undertakes housing improvements and
sanitation works in designated endemic areas, (ii) the Oswaldo Cruz
Foundation (FIOCRUZ) which conducts research and provides technical
assistance, tra'ning, and laboratory support and (iii) the Superintendency
for Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM) which implements nationwide programs of
prevention, control and surveillance. SUCAM is semi-autonomous and the most
important instit-itional actor in endemic disease control.
1.5.           State and MuniciRal.  Public health care is further
subdivided at state, regional and municipal levels. On the whole, State
Secretariats of Health (SES) have been poorly financed, weakly managed and
generally short of qualified staff.   Programs have been highly centralized.
Under the Unified and Decentralized Health Cate Systems or SUDS - announced
by federal decree in July 1987 - (and earlier, under the Integrated Health
Actions or AIS), an attempt has been made to decentralize health services
through the creation of Regional Health Directorates (DIRES, ERSAS).
Outside of larger cities such as Sao Paulo, municipally-owned health
services are limited.
1.6.              Licies    Since the early 1980s Brazil's health policy has
been to reverse the trend of the 1960s and 1970s toward greater spending by
INAMPS for hospital care and reduce~d spending, in relative and even absolute
terms, for basic care and endemic disease control. Priority has been given
to: a) extension of basic health services; b) reinforcing endemic disease
control; c) cost-containment and reduction of waste and fraud in INAMPS
services; and d) improving inter-agency coordination and strengthening state
and local capacity to administer and deliver health services. The
Government's interest in redressing the critical health situation of
Brazil's pooresc &reas kviz. the Northeast and Amazonia) is reflected in
policies and strategies addressing basic health problems of lower income
groups: (i) control of transmissible diseases, especially endemic diseases
and vaccine-preventable ones; (ii) maternal and child care, including family
planning; and (iii) ambulatory and hospital care with priority for high risa
groups. Control of endemic diseases is a sector priority, particularly
Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, and malaria; an existing
Bank financed project is already strengthening SUCAM and endemic disease
control activities in the Northeast region (Northeast Endemic Disease
Control Project Ln-2931-BR). Now, the Government has requested the World
Bank's cupport to address the growing and widespread problem cf malaria
control in the Amazon region, through the strengthening and expansion of
field operations and institutional development of SUCAM.



3
1.7.           The Unified and Decentralized Health Systems (SUDS) soeks
(i) unification at the state level of programs administerad by INAMPS, MOH
agencies, and state and municipal level providers; and (ii) decentralization
of these coordinated programs to the state and within states to lower
levels. SUDS is the successor to the AIS strategy initiated in 1983. SUDS
entails unification of the bulk of SES and INAMPS basic health care
resources, with each SES to act as a sole executor of services in the
individual states. Pooling of resources is to be enhanced by means of the
Integrated Budgetary Planning (POI) strategy. As the first truly
consolidated health sector budget, the POI strategy will further encourage
integrated sectoral planning under the aegis of CIPLAN --an Inter
Institutional Planning Comission with representation from MOH, INAMPS, and
the Ministries of Education and Labor.
C. Health S*ctor  aresltures and Financin-
1.8.           Total public and private health care expenditures in Brazil
probably exceed $US 10 billion annually or over 5 percent of GDP. In 1982
combined public and private expenditures on health in Brazil came to about
$US 80 per capita. However, as health spending increased so did the gap
between total expenditures on individual-curative health care, financed
primarily under INAMPS, and collective-preventive health care expenditures
financed by the MOH and State SeLretariats of Health. Until recently,
resources were becoming increasingly skewed in this fashion. In 1949 only
13 percent of health care spending went to curative services and 87 percent
to prevei,tive health care. In 1982, the ratio was nearly reversed with 85
percent spent on curative and 15 percent on preventive health care.   By the
early 1980s the unequal geographic distribution of spending on health of
1NAMPS and MOH had emerged clearly, with INAMPS concentrating in thie South,
Southeast, and Center West and MOH assuming the major burden of work in the
Amazon and the Northeasz.  Since 1982, however, Federal policy has
underscored the need for a shift in spending and goals towards improved
preventive health care a large part of which is endemi: disease control.
Since SUCAM is the principal institution responsible f^r endemic disease
control it has become a key actor in the implementation of this shift in
government health care policy, particularly since 1986.
1.9.            Despite steady increases in the incidence of endemic
diseases, particularly in Amazonia and the Northeast, SUCAM resources were
reduced by 30 percent in the 1981-85 period. In real terms SUCAM had
already experienced a 40 percent reduction of its resources between 1978 and
1981. Recently however, financing for endemic disease control has increased
and now represents about 3.5 percent of the total budget for the health
sector including both INAMPS and MOH programs. Renewed spending has
occured despite the strong pressures to limit public spending due to fiscal
pressures; it is specifically in.ended to address the gaps in resources and
in policy priorities that have widened in recent years.
D. Bank LAnding in the Healh Sector
1.10.           The Bank's health sector work in Brazil began over a decade
ago with inclusion of health components in rural development projects for



4
the Northeast region. The Bank's first free-standing health project in
Brazil was designed to improve access to basic health services, reinforce
malaria control, and support tropical disease research in the A2azonian
state of Rondonia (Ln 2061-BR, US$13 million). The state and its
municipalities succeeded in expanding the basic health care network at an
impressive pace. The malaria situation, however, presented alarmingly high
rates of transmission which were aggravated, during one particularly
critical period, by problams in the acquisition of DDT. A second health
project, approved by the Board in June 1984, supports development of a Basic
Health Services model for the Sao Paulo metropolitan area (Ln 2447-BR,
US$55 million). A major purpose of this project is to demonstrate that a
basic health services approach can successfully address Brazilian urban
health care needs in a cost-effective manner that may be replicated
elsewh6re in Brazil. An additional loan was approved in June 1984 to
finance a series of National Health Policy Studies which would seek to
better define medium-term sector policy and objectives (Ln 2448-BR, US$2
million). A third health project, approved by the Board in May 1986, is
intended to improve basic health services in the Northeast (Ln 2699-BR,
US$59 million). A fourth project, specifically for endemic disease control
in the Northeast was approved in 1988 (Ln 2931-BR, US$109 million) and a
Second Northeast Health Services Project is under preparation. Although all
of the above projects have per,ormed well, the two endemic disesa  projects
executed by the federal agency SUCAM have proceeded with exceptional speed
and effectiveness.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. PoDulation and Kigxatio.
2.1.            The Brazilian Amazon covers over 5 million km2.  It
encompasses most of nine states including Amazonas, Acre, Para, Rondonia,
Hato Grosso, northern Goias, western Maranhao, Amapa and Roraima. Amazonia
has an estimated 16 million inhabitants and population density ranges from
0.34 per km2 in Roraima to 2.78 per km2 in Para. Since the 1960s, it has
witnessed the comings and goings of many pioneers. Hundreds of thousands
have journeyed northward and westward to Amazonia bringing little more th
their families, their poverty and a vision of new and better lives ahead.
Most of these hopeful migrants view the Amazon as an endless and abundant
frontier - few have had any experience in the region or in a similar
environment and few have had any experience, physical or cultural, with one
of its harshest realities, malaria. They have headed in greater numbers
towards Mato Grosso, Rondonia, Acre, and Roraima of the western Amazon.
rhey are primarily landless families from Parana, Sao Paulo, Espirito Santo,
Santa Catarina, and other states across the industrializing South and
Southeast. Others, though fewer in number, have come from the Northeast and
are attracted primarily to the eastern Amazon, Para, Maranhao, and Amapa.
Across the region opportunities are indeed in abundance, in agriculture, in
mining, and in the dusty frontier boom towns now a trademark of Brazil's
modern-day wild westw. But hardship, poverty, and disease are also a
commonplace of life on this frontier.



5
2.2.            The rate of population growth for the North region (1970-80)
is estimated at 5 percent - high in relation to a nationwide rate of 2.5
percent. Over 25 percent of the growth in Amazonia during this period was
due to in-mlgration. Kajor receiving areas have shifted over time as the
process of frontier expansion has been played out in the expansion of small
farm agriculture, the introduction of large agroindustrial and
hydroelectric projects, and the discovery of rich mineral deposits. During
the 1960's, Goias ar.d Para were important foci of in-migration stimulated by
the construction of the Belem - Brasilia highway. Later, in the early
1970s, the advent of the Transanazon Highway heightened the pace of
settlenmnt in southern Para. At the saae time, construction of the Cuiaba -
Porto Velho highway in the Northwest brought a massive migration of
landless farmers and entrepreneurs to northern Mat: Grosso and Rondonia.
The latest zones of rapid demographic and economic expansion are located in
the states of Acre and Roraima--though Rondonia and Para continue to
experience significant growth due to in-migration. Since 1980, over 600,000
new migrants have entered the state of Rondonia. Acre and Roraima have
received an estimated 28,000 and 80,000, respectively. The state of Para,
which received approximately 377,000 in-migrants in the 1970-80 period, has
continued to attract new migrants in the 1980s, in particular in southern
Para and the Carajas region. The number of placer miners (garimpeiros)
alone attracted to southern Para since 1980 is estimated at over 70,000.
Western Maranhao, a pre-Amazonian ecological transition zone is also
experiencing sigrificant in-migration as a consequence of the Carajas
railway which 1. ks iron ore mines in Para to the seaport at Itaqui near Sao
Luis, Maranhao.
2.3.            This process of rapid demographic expansion, stimulated by
road-building, government fiscal incentives, colonization projects,
discovery of mineral deposits, and by social and economic changes in the
major sending regions, the rural South, the Southeast and the Northeast,
has been a critical factor in the region's most serious public health
problem - the startling rise in malaria transmission. Internal migrations,
in particular those of garimpeiros, contribute further to the overall set
of environmental, social, economic, and biological factors favoring
sustained high rates of malaria transmission.
Amerindian Populatiogn
2.4.            The majority of Brazil's remaining Amerindians live in small
villages or bands in upland tropical forest (terra firme) of the Amazon
basin. Most groups combine slash and burn agriculture with hunting and
gathering activities. Roughly 200,000 Amerindians reside within Brazil's
national borders; 180,000 in Amazonia. They are but a remnant of the
estimated 2 to 5 million who inhabited the region at the time of European
contact. The area they now occupy comprises only 6 percent of Brazil's
territory and the intensity of encroachment has accelerated greatly in this
century, especially in the past three decades. In 1900, an estimated 46
percent of Brazil's Indians had no corntact with non-Indian society. By
1960, only half that percentage were still living in isolation, Presently
there are only a handful of uncontacted gvoups. In this century, no less



6
than 87 groups have become extinct or nearly so. Historically, frontier
expansion has hastened the decline of tribal peoples and their cultures.
On. of the principal causes of population decline among Indian groups has
been the introduction by outsiders of diseases unfamiliar to the Indians.
Colonization of the Amazon valley and the spread of placer mining activity,
in particular, has meant the onset of devastating epidemics of malaria and
other diseases.
A.  Health Idi a   and Malaia Incidence
2.5.             Health status in the Amazon region is considerably lower
than in more developed regions such as the South and Southeast. Life
expectancy in the region is estimated at 62 years and infant mortality at
100 per thousand live births; both figures fall short of the national
averages of 65 years and 74 per thousand live births. The region's greatest
health problem is malaria. Other vector borne diseases in the region
include schistosomiasis, Chagas' disease, leishmaniasis, and
onchocerciasis. These may also become public health problems in the future
if control activities are not strengthened. Diarrheal disease and
intestinal parasites are widespread but malaria is clearly the major health
issue in Amazonia and, as illustrated in Table 2.1 below, it has worsened
substantially in recent years.
Table 2.1: Malaria Cases Reported 1983-87
1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
Para                116,666   128,830   113,649   105,725   119,120
Rondonia             80,752   151,140   168,690   191,727   228,866
Maranhao             21,973    24,468    37,889    54,668    54,721
Roraima              16,691    15,940    15,836    10,827    11,198
Mato Grosso          15,284    10,889    12,832    19,147    21,335
Acre                 11,860    11,705    10,120    11,958    21,943
Amazonas             10,299      8,528    11,198    15,319    14,918
Goias                 8,710      6,219     6,928      6,937      5,854
Amapa                 4,755      7,270      7,461     8,219      7,332
Amazonia            286,990   364,989   384,603   424,527   485,357
All Brazil          297,687   378,25/   399,462   443,627   504,124
2.6.            The area of Brazil within which malaria transmission can
potentially occur covers approximately 6.9 million square kilometers or 81
percent of the national territory. Only the state of Rio Grande do Sul, the
Federal District, the Federal Territory of Fernando de No,onha, some arid
regions and other localities in other states, and areas surpassing 900
moters above sea level are classified as non-malarious. Malaria is
presently endemic in an area that extends approximately 5.3 million km2 and
basically coincides with Amazonia. In 1986, over 99 percent of all
reported cases of malaria appeared in or can be traced to this region.



7
2.7.            Malaria is the most pervasive public health proble, of the
Amazon region and continues to spread into new areas at an alarming pace;
over 280,000 cases of malaria were reported in 1983 but by the end of 1987,
the count had almost doubled to nearly half a million (see Table 2.1). Data
on mortality from the disease is problematic and under-reporting of deaths
is co--on throughout the region but some estimates are available; data from
the 1977-82 period on malaria deaths show wide variation in mean mortality
with Rondonia in the lead at 24.6 per 100,000 inhabitants. Rondonia is
followed by Roraima (11.9), Acre (8.3), Amapa (8.0), and Para (6.9). The
remaining states show rates of 2.2 or below. While this variation may be an
artifact of under-reporting, it may also reflect differences in immunity
levels within the population. Rondonia, for example, has a large proportion
of in-migrants from southern and southeastern states where the likelihood of
prior contact with the parasite is rare. In 1987, Annual Parasitic
Incidence (API) was highest in Rordonia (163.55) followed by Roraima
(89.09), Acre (57.46), Amapa (30.92), Para (25.42), Mato Grosso (11.9),
Maranhao (11.15), Amazonas (7.88), and northern Goias (5.38). At the
municipal level there are usually great variations in API and in number of
cases reported.
2.8.            Malaria incidence is presently concentrated in three states
and in a relatively small number of municipalities. Over 80 percent of the
malaria reported in 1987 occurred in the states of Rondonia (228,866), Para
(119,120), and Maranhao (54,721). In 1986, only 22 out of the 458
municipalities of the Amazon region accounted for 60 2ercent of malaria
cases reported (272,000 cases); 11 municipalities ia Rondonia, 6 in Para,
and 1 each in Roraima, Acre, Amapa, Mato Grosso and i4aranhao. These
municipalities are either areas of new settlement, placer mining, or are
adjacent to such areas. The epidemiological data have made it increasingly
clear that there are some important characteristics of these areas
involving the environment, the vector, human populations and relationships
between these variables which have reduced the efficacy of conventional
malaria control strategies (para. 2.13).
2.9.              SUCAM studies show that areas of high transmission are
axporting significant numbers of malaria cases to other regions. Return
migration from the Amazon region and seasonal migration between the Amazon
and other parts of Brazil has resulted in the reintroduction of malaria
transmission to areas where it had already been brought under control. In
1987, SUCAM identified 25 new acti-Te foci in the Northeast, Southeast, and
Center-West regions of Brazil, specifically, in the states of Piaui,
Pernambuco, Espirito Santo, Parana, Goias and Mato Grosso do Sul. The most
notable contributors to this backward flow of migrants and malaria are
Rondonia and Para. Ariquemes, Rondonia, has four INCRA settlement projects
and in 1987 had 75,000 recorded cases of malaria. Ariquemes alone was
responsible for at least 1,200 cases exported to 204 municipalities in 18
states. The greatest number rf cases from Ariquemes were found in Parana,
Sao Paulo, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Mato Grosso. The mining camps of
Amazonia, especially southern Para, are even more prolific in their
generation and spread of malaria across Brazil: a study of 53,000 malaria
cases in 1985 showed that 9,000 carriers of the parasite travelled from
mining camps in the municipality of Sao Felix do Xingu to 381



8
municipalities in 18 different states outside of the Amazon. An additional
2,000 cases were exported to areas outside the Amazon by the mining camps of
Colider in Mato Grosso state.
2.10.           The extreme mobility of garimpo populations is illustrated in
Annex 6 which describes population fluctuations in the Garimpo Maria Bonita
of southern Para over a 5 week period. These figures cannot, however,
illustrate one very important dimension of placer mining and malaria
transmission; these garimpeiros who come and go may move (and carry malaria)
across the whole of the Brazilian Amazon to garimpos in Rondonia, Amapa,
Roraima, Amazonas, Mato Grosso, and Maranhao.
C. Frontier Malaria* A Hoving Tar pt
2.11.           The malaria situation in the Amazon today has chanted
substantially from the malaria situation which prevailed and was controlled
in earlier decades in the Northeast of Brazil. Recent studies demonstrate
that environmental, entomological, social, economic, and even political
factors interact to produce a particularly complex and problematic
epidemiological situation. Malaria in Amazonia today has been called
'frontier malaria to (i) distinguish it from malaria situations which have
been encountered outside the region and to (ii) underscore the fact that
malaria is not only a disease but a social condition associated almost
universally with the historical process of Brazil's expanding frontier.
2.12.           Frontier malaria has a number of characteristics posing new
challenges to SUCAM. Vector density is high since temperature,
precipitation, humidity, and vegetation in the humid tropics favor
proliferation of the anopheles mosquito. Rapid and precarious settlement of
migrant populations '.mplies elevated exposure to the vector and a large
human 'esevoir of infection. Recent ertomological studies suggest that
transmission outside the domicile is a key factor in the persistence of high
levels of transmission. Migrants now settling or working in the region have
a reduced immunity to the disease. This is supported by evidence that
susceptibility is equally high for children and adults; there appear to be
no initial differences in likelihood of infection within study populations
(agricultural settlers) as a function of age. Furthermore, the new migrants
have little or no previous experience with the disease. The chemotherapief;
in use have been effective in preventing deaths from malaria but have not
solved the problem of reinfection and resistance which lead to higher
prevalence with as many as three cases per person per year recorded in some
areas.  Hence, mortality is low but morbidity is high.   Entomological
studies reveal that there is an elevated proportion of P.falciparum in the
region, particularly in new settlements and placer mining sites.
Consequently, drug resistant cases are more common.
2.13.           Amazonia presents a new series of difficulties for a control
strategy based solely on residual spraying of dwellings and treatment of
positive cases. Logistics and administration are more difficult, sprayable
surfaces often do not exist, new and abandoned houses are more numerous, the
population is more mobile, and the level of education of the population is
lower. Malaria transmission is often highest in the most remote regions



9
where SUCAK is often the only health institution present. New settlements
are characterized by weak social ties or a weak sense of community and there
is often a sense of mistrust of others on the frontier which can become a
serious obstacle to organized community action.  The regional popu.ation is
highly mobile and often circulates within and beyond the settlemo,t areas or
between dispersed mining sites. Many engage in wider migratory patterns
moving regularly between states and regions. Placer miners are especially
mobile and many combine mining with other activities in other regions.
Small farmers may also circulate in search of wage labor. Areas of high
transmission have thus become exporters of malaria at a regional and
national level.
III. ORGANIZATION AND STRATEGIES FOR KALARIA CONROlQ
A. Oranization and Kanagement
3.1.            Efforts to control endemic diseases in Brazil were first
introduced by local governments in the Northeast in the 1920's and 1930s
with support for mosquito control from the Rockefeller Foundation. In the
late 1930s the Malaria Control Service of the Northeast was established and
in 1941 became the National Malaria Control Service (SNM). In later years,
malaria control was again passed down to two more agencies; first, to the
National Department for Rural Endemic Diseases, and then to the Malaria
Eradication Campaign, Thus, when the SuDerintendencv for Public Health
CamDaigns (SUCAM) emerged in 1976, it was from a long and quite experienced
line of institutional predecessors,
3.2.            SUCAM's present structure was officially creared by Portaria
161 (ministerial resolution) giving SUCAM general responsibility for endemic
disease control. Its director, called Superintendent, is proposed by the
Minister of Health and appointed by the country's president. SUCAM is
represented in each one of Brazil's 26 states by a Regional Director .hose
appointment is proposed by the Superintendent and made by the Minister of
Health. SUCAM now employs over 40,000 workers and has a 1988 budget of $US
231 million. The agency is noted for its strong staff and line
organization, its excellent record in implementing endemic disease control
programs and, in particular, for its esprit de corps and ability to sustain
programs in remote areas under difficult conditions. Few public hLalth
agencies, worldwide, approach SUCAM's reputation for experience in the
field.
3.3.            The central organizationi tf SUCAM consists of one Planning
and Coordina ing Unit and five Departments. A planning, Budget. and Control
Coordination Unit in Brasilia is resDonsible for planning, programming, and
budgeting based on proposals prepared by the 26 Regional Directorates and
worked out with the 80 district level offices. DECEN, the Department of
Endemic Disease Control supports control activities through specific
divisions for Cha7as'disease, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, and malaria.
The Regional Directorates receive technical advic- from DECEN. An
Administration Department coordinates all aspects of logistical support,
including transport, communications, supplies, maintenance and repairs.
Financial Administration is conLducted unQer a separate 'epartment (DAF)



10
organized and operating under guidelines established by the Ministry of
Finance. The Personnel Department (DP) manages recruitment, selection,
training, legal and career development, and is organized along guidelines of
the Ministry of Public Administration. The fifth and last department level
unit within SUCAM is the Coordination Unit for Projects Management (COGEP).
COGEP vas created by Portaria 935 of October 20, 1988 to coordinate the Bank
supported Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project and will serve the same
function for tho Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project.
3.4.            SUCAK's management and execution of field activities is
organized hierarchically. From the field level up it can be described as
follows: teams of five guards (guardas) are led hy a chief guard (chefe de
turma). Five teams are subordinated to an inspector (inspetor de endemias)
,!nd five inspectors to a general inspector. The latter, in groups of five,
are supervised by a professional in charge of a specific endemic disease
control program. The control programs are managed at the local level
through Local Districts (the sub-distrito, usually located in a municipal
seat). Local Districts, ideally, report to sub-regional units called
Technical-Administrative Districts (distritos) which are officially the
true operational units of SUCAM. These are in turn managed by the Regional
Directorates located in state or territorial capitals. Regional
Directorates are subordinate to the central-level Superintendency in
Brasilia. There are nine Regional Directorates in Amazonia coordinating the
activities of approximately 8,700 workers in 26 Technical-Administrative
Districts. In addition, SUCAM has the support of a volunteer system of
Notification Posts (PNs) at the community level. The PN volunteer
(notificante), a resident of the local community, collects blood slides from
febrile patients (passive case detection) and provides treatment
(chemotherapy). SUCAM has about 15,000 such volunteers in the Amazon and
over 40,000 in all of Brazil. However, 30 to 35 percent of field personnel
have recently been cut due to budget constraints.
3.5.            SUCAM's central headquarters are located in Brasilia.
Regional Directorates in the Amazon region are located in Rio Branco, Porto
Velho, Manaus, Boa Vista, Macapa, Belem, Cuiaba, Sao Luis and Goiania.
Countrywide, about one half of SUCAM's 24 Regional Directorates are using
rented office space, as well as about one fifth of the 80 district level
offices. In Amazonia, many of the Regional Directorates and district level
offices are in rented space and often space for laboratories storage,
vehicle maintenance, and other basic functions is limited.
3.6.            In Service Training.  Upgrading of SUCAM's capacity for in-
service training is a top priority for che institution, particulatly in the
Amazon region. Additicnal and updated courses are needed for all field
personnel from spraymen and to general inspectors. Courses are needed for
higher level personnel in public health administration, epidemiology, and
entomology. Development and implementation of training programs focusing on
health education and community participation is also needed.
3.7.            Information Systems.  Today's SUCAM does not make use of
computer based data processing, except in isolated and specific
administrative functions such as payroll and accounting.  Nevertheless the



11
agency has an impressively elaborate data processing organization in place.
It processes manually millions of records every year. Most of this manual
data processing is tightly related to operational information. It is
porforued either to generate epidemiological statistics or as an assessment
tool to measure and evaluate the effectiveness of control operations.
Because the manual process is extremely slow, labor inzensive and error
prone, it restricts analysis of facts to simple statistical tables such as
pro-planned tabulations. Although SUCAM may have all the data it needs to
perform its main functions, it cannot readily transform data into
information that would allow more effective use of its resources.
Computerization of SUCAM's information system is needed to (a) revitalize
central planning and control functions (b) support the management of special
projects such as the Northeast projects and the Amazon Basin Malaria Control
project; and (c) provide timely, rc-iable and consistent statistical
information to the recently created MOH Information Center (CIS). A
feasibility study on the computerization of SUCAM information systems was
financed under the Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project (Ln 2931-BR).
3.8.            Operaticas Research.  Operations research capacity in SUCAM
is limited. On the other hand, the need for a greater capacity in this
regard increases with the introduction of new approaches and strategies for
malaria control. Until recertly there were few ongoing malaria research
projects in Brazil and most were limited to measuring drug resistance of K
falci2arl. Few projects focus on the vectors. The POLONOROESTE program,
however, has made it possible in recent years for more scientific
institutions to engage in malaria research.   A number of institutions in
Brazil are already involved in research projects of great interest to SUCAM,
among them the Institute for Tropical Medicine of Manaus, the Fundacao
Osvaldo Cruz, the Tropical Medicine Center of Rondonia, the Evandro Chagas
Institute of Belem, the National School for Public Health of Sao Paulo,
Federal Universities in several states and others. Results obtained so far
in studies of the parasite, the vector, and the relationships between human
behavior and the transmission cycle, have already proven useful to SUCAM.
But additional research is needed. New techniques, tools, and treatments
must be tested. SUC.M intends to support testing of new anti-malarials and
monitor the results of new chemotherapies introduced in the field, as well
as new pest  ides such as  cyhalotrin".  Operational research on the impact
of community mobilization activities and of new control methods such as
pesticide impregnated curtains (para 3.17) and microzoning (para 3.18) is
also required.
3.9.            Inter-institutional Actions.  In the context of the AIS and
SUDS (para 1.7), SUCAM has begun efforts to promote functional linkages with
other health institutions; inter-institutional actions have already been
undertaken with state level environmental sanitation asencies, with FSESP,
with SESs and FLNAI. SUCAM is normally the first agency (federal, state or
municipal) to estabiish an active presence in new areas of occupation where
health services of all kinds -noe just endemic disease control- are needed.
SUCAM's field personn,!l undertake, in the course of their regular duties,
the first census activities in such areas. The maps and information which
result from SUCAM's work are shared with other institutions which often
solicit SUCAM's help in this regard. In effect, SUCAM enters new areas and



12
lays the foundations of any public health network that will follhw. Given
its unique experience and capability in public health in remote Areas, SUCAM
intends to make available to State Secretariats of Health whatever technical
assistance it can provide to promote greater integration of health services
through the SUDS.
B.    alraC tolSrtu
3.10.           SUCAM's malaria control strategy depends largelv on
conventional methods that have been in use since the introduction of DDT
for vector control over 40 years ago. Prior to the practice of residual
spraying of households with DDT, malaria control in Brazil Involved,
exclusively, the application of larvicides at breeding sites and
construction of minor civil engineering works. In 1958, the Ministry of
Health adopted norms for malaria eradization established by the World Health
Organization which recommended a tightly structured program capable of
penetrating and operating in all areas of transmission. In 1970, SUCAM
introduced a stratification scheme which divided the malarious region of the
country into (a) long-term/high prevalence and (b) short-term/low
prevalence areas. At the same time, SUCA. set new objectives to: (i)
prevent the return of transmission to areas already under control but still
under surveillance; (ii) conclude interruption of transmission in areas of
lower incidence and; (iii) reduce transmission to lowest possible levels in
areas of elevated incidence.
3.11.           Epidemiological, socio-economj.c, ecological and other
criteria were used later, in the late 1970s, to re-str!.tify the region.
Again, two major areas were defined: areas of Priority I (high transmission)
and areas of Priority II (biwer transmission). Priority I areas receive
greater attention in terms of DDT spraying, treatment of cases and in
particular, introduction of complemen,..iy or experimental measures. Since
1984, SUCAM has further refined its stratification system and now practices
what it calls 'microstratification' or grouping, on the basis of
epidemiological importance, of specific localities which generate the
greatest number of malaria cases. SUCAM establishes specific measures for
these different groups of localities and carries out entomological and
epidemiological studies to follow their impact.
3.12.           Vector control is carried out at the field level by SUCAM's
teams of zuardas (spraymen). Pesticide (most commonly DDT, but also
piretroide and deltametrine) is applied to interior walls of all dwellings
and associated structures on a 6 month schedule. Shorter spraying cycles
have bee.n followed in some areas of extremely high transmission. In 1987,
1.8 million houses were sprayed in the Amazon region corresponding to a
target rate of about 70% of households. Aerial spraying is used in some
urban areas and in garimpo areas where dwellings have no walls. Guardas are
also responsible for identification and elimination of breeding sites. In
practice, the effort devoted to this activity varies widely depending on
training, manpower, and demand for breeding site elimination.
3.13.           SUCAM has also attempted to involve local populations in
malaria control and has recently reinforced efforts to educate target
populations by retaining additional education personnel at the regional



13
level.  Activities of educators (educadores) and health agents (diuledorj
sanit-rlar) have been limited, however, due to lack of official job
classification, proper training, and/or formal recognition of their mandate
within the institution.
3.14.           The principal activities of epidemiological surveillance are
passive and active case detection, identification of breeding sites,
monitoring of drug resistance (see Annex 13) in the parasite and vector
resistance to insecticides. Passive case detection and in some instances
the identification of breeding sites is in large part carried out by the
notif'cants. or SUCAM's large corps of volunteer workers (para 3.2).
Active case detection is conducted in areas of extremely high incidence such
as new settlements and placer mining sites and has been employed for
memergency" operations during particularly severe epidemics. Vector studies
(entomological surveillance) by SUCAM on species composition, adaptive
behavior, and physiological resistance to insecticides have been few.
SUCAM requires more trained entomologists to better monitor the impact of
field operations.
3.15.           SUCAM provides treatment for malaria to febrile and confirmed
cases which is administered at local sub-districts as well as in the field
by volunteers at notification posts or by SUCAM workers in the course of
their regular work in the community. Chemotherapies in use include
chloroquine, the 4 aminoquinolines, sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine, quinine, and
mefloquine or various combinations of the above depending on the nature of
the infection and resistance levels.
C. The Adiusted Control ProgFa
3.16.           The adjusted malaria control s-rategy is founded on two
important observations: (a) that the malaria situation in Brazil today is
gualitatively different f-om the situation of three d3cades ago; Amazonia
today faces the problem of 'frontier malaria" as described in para 2.12; and
(b) that the majority of malaria cases originate ir just 22 municipalities
which share distinct epidemiological characteristics associated, in
particular, with new settlements, garimpos, and peri-urban growth. These
characteristics are described in detail in Annexes 4, 8, and 9. The
adjusted malaria control program will focus attention on these areas,
developing and expanding the use of technical and social innovations which
are needed to complement conventional methods.
3.17.           SUCAM has recently introduced a number of innovations in the
field. One of the most promising of these is the experimental use of
deltametrine impregnated curtains. These curtains, made of woven plastic
used in the packaging of agricultural produce, have been introduced on an
experimental basis in areas of high transmission in Amapa, especially in new
settlements, peri-urban sites and in garimpos.  's a complementary measure,
fogging is also carried out. Preliminary studies have shown encouraging
reductions in the number of cases of malaria being reparted in areas where
the curtains are in use.   In the garimpos of southern Para (the Cumaru
site, in particular) SUCAM has added ultra low volume fogging to its normal
operations. During the two peak months, fogging is carried out on a ten day



14
cycle. In addition, SUCAI has been conducting field trials of cyhalotrin
insecticide, as mentioned above, since 1987. Preliminary observations
indicate general acceptance of its use among local populations in Rundonia
as it does not stain walls, has shown no harmful impact on domestic pets,
and eliminates a variety of insects pests as well as the malaria vector.
3.18.           SUCAM has also begun to introduce *micro-zoning'
( icrozonage-) or the delimitation of a small area within an area of high
transbission.  Within the microzone which encompasses a maximum of 70 - 80
households, a 'polyvalent' guarda carries out residual spraying, collection
of slides and treatment of cases, anopheline capture, elimination of
breeding sites, and health education. SUCAM technical staff in such areas
have proposed that, in some garimpo areas, vector control activities should
be substantially modified. It has been suggested that spraying of DDT be
stopped in garimpos where most dwellings have no walls. Manpower, for the
most part, would be re-directed to ultra low volume spraying.
3.19.           Most importantly, the adjusted malaria control program will
reinforce preparation and supervision of SUCAM's fisld personnel through
new and more frequent training exercises.   This will include training that
will be needed for SUCAM staff to implement a new program for public
education on malaria prevention through mass media, and household visits.
The program will also reinforce entomological surveillance and studies which
ere needed throughout thp regior, particularly in peri-urban areas, to
determine the need for eovironmental sanitation/source reduction measures.
Operational research is neeaed to accompany the implementation of new
technologies and approaches and SUCAM is establishing a research fund to
provide support for projects of particular relevance to malaria control
operations and management.
rv THE PROJECT
A. Project Concegt and Oblectives
4.1.            The Brazilian Government today faces a number of critical
problems on its expanding Amazon frontier including the renid and disorderly
migration of farmers, prospectors and entrepreneurs, increasing
vulnerability of native Indian peoples, and an explosive increase in the
transmission of malaria. The project addresses two of these urgent
problems: rapidly increasing malaria incidence throughout the region and
the spread of malaria and other endemic diseases to Indian areas. It will
do so through the introduction of an adjusted and more effective malaria
control program.
4.2.            The specific objectives of the project are:
(i) To reduce the prevalence of malaria to a level which no
icnger constitutes a public health p oblem and to reouce the risk of its re-
introduction to areas where transmission has already been interrupted by
implementing an adjusted malaria control strategy and policy.



15
(ii) To strengthen SUCAM. The institutional development of
SUCAM will focus on increasing organizational efficiency and responsiveness
to changing conditions. These institutional objectives will be sought by
the incorporatior. of new technologies such as fully computerized information
systems and by the development of an aggressive in-service training program
(human resource development), as well as by implementing two new programs --
one to strengthen operational research and another to expand community
mobilization activities.
4.3.            The main beneficiaries of the project will be rural
inhabitants of all ages in the Amazon region including impoverished migrants
from the South and Northeast and a substantial Indian population with
special needs. The poor will benefit, in particular, to the extent that
they encounter greater exposure to malaria and are less likely to seek and
receive adequate care.
B. Kain Features
4.4.            The project is comprised of two components: a Malaria
Control Program and an Institutional Development Program for SUCAM.
Malaria Control Program (US$131 million)
4.5.            Over a five year period the program aiws to reinforce and
expand an adjusted malaria control program which is expected to break the
explosive rise in malaria transmission. To achieve this, project activities
will include: (i) epidemiological surveillance (active and passive case
detection), stratification of transmission, and diagnosis and treatment of
all positive or febrile patients; (ii) vector control through
intradomiciliary DDT application, ULV (ultra low volume) fogging, and
provision of pesticide impregnated curtains; (iii) setting up an
Pntomological surveillance unit in each Regional Directorate and
implementation of source reduction projects (drainage, sanitation,
bioLogical control); (iv) development and implementation of a community
mobilization/information, education, communication (IEC) program
specifically targeted at high risk populations in new settlements and mining
areas; and (v) implementation of an endemic diE ase control program for
Amerindians by SUCAM.
4.6.            To Achieve this the project will finance: (i) approximately
15 higher level staff and 1550 field staff; (ii) provision of 3000 tons of
DDT (75% concentrate) and a quantity of other pesticides equivalent to 20
percent of DDT costs; (iii) about 12.5 million anti-malarial drug treatment
courses; (iv) specialized spraying equipment and materials; (v) source
reduction projects, to be executed by the National Department of Sanitation
Works (DNOS), municipalities or private enterprises; (vi) technical
assistance and training in engineering related to source reduction
projects; (vii) contractual funds, technical assistance, incremental field
exp"nses and equipment needed to set up a community mobilization program;
and (viii) aerial transport and training courses for endemic disease
control in Indian areas.



16
Istitutional Develponent Pro"   (US$37 million)
4.7.           The institutional developmoent program will consist of:  (i)
an accelerated in-service training program for field staff working in
Anazonia in cooperation with other institutions including federal
universities, the Evandro Chagas Institute, the Brazilian Institute for
Municipal Administration (IBM), the National Institute for Amazon Research
(INPA), and others. The program will include support for 3132 student
months for lover level, 539 student months for mid level and 1116 student
months for higher level personnel, and scholarships for study abroad; (Ui)
retaining of specialized professionals and technical assistance to assist in
the areas of Entomology, Sanitary Engineering, and Health Education; (iil)
continued automation of SUCAM's highly developed but still largely manual
information systems (countrywide), including the purchase of a mainframe
computer, training of information systems staff and maintenance of
equipm-nt; (iv) construction and new equipment for 19 district offices and
construction of 80 SUCAM posts for garimpo areas; (v) development of
operational research capability through the establishment of a research fund
to contract specific priority studies and (vi) development of inter-
institutional activities among federal, state and municipal level health
agencies.
C. Detailed DescriDtion
Malaria Control Prograu
4.8.           Adjustment of SUCAM's malaria control strategy and policy
will focus on strengthening conventional field operations and introduction
of new activities more appropriate to changing conditions in Amazonia. Thc
project will finance materials and equipment for intradomiciliary DDT
application, ultra low volume spraying, aerial fogging, and will accelerate
the testing and introduction of pesticide impregnated curtains.
Epidemiological and entomological surveillance activities will be expanded
and upgraded and source redt'ction projects (elimination of breeding sites)
will be implemented, as needed, on the basis of entomological studies.
Personnel will be retained under the project and compensation for field work
improved. The project will also support greater involvement of local
communities through a community mobilization and education program which
will employ the mass media as well as community-based extension efforts
among populations at highest risk (new settlements and garimpos).
4.9.           Vector Control.  Residual spraying continues to have a
beneficial impact on transmission levels in areas where it is effectively
carried out. However, coverage rates have fallen in some areas. Therefore,
the project will reinforce residual spraying allowing SUCAM to increase
coverage to a target of 80% or higher. Over a five and 1/2 year period the
project will finance acquisition of about 3000 tons of DDT (75 percent
concentrate) and a smaller quantity of other pesritides (equal in value to
20 percent of the cost of the DDT) and specialized spraying equipment.
SUCAM will also retain an additional 1550 field workers for vector control,
epidemiological surveillance, and health education activities. This will



17
improve SUCAM's capability in case detection and treatment, as well. With a
view to reducing turnover of field personnel - a consequence of SUCAK's
relatively low salary scale as compared to other health institutions   funds
will be provided for the payment of appropriate perdiems to field workers.
4.10.           Entomological Surveillance.  SUCAM's entomological
surveillance capability will receive considerable strengthening.
Surveillance of vector density and level of infection, vector behavior, and
physiological adaptation to pesticides in use can provide detailed
entomological iata necessary for planning as well as for evaluation of
control program results. Entomological studies are also required for proper
execution of source reduction activities. SUCAM maintains entomological
surveillance teams at the regional level composed of entomologists and
entomology assistants who supervise the guardas who carry out the capture of
vector specimens for analysis.    The entomological teams require greater
and appropriate orientation from higher level specialists in entomological
surveillance. The project will expand SUCAM's capacity in this area and, in
particular, improve the use of entomological data now being collected. The
project will support: ki) construction of new laboratories for entomological
analysis in Belem and Manaus and provision of microscopes and other
equipment and supplies; (ii) additional personnel (including perdiems) to
set up entomological units in all regional directorates and districts;
(iii) additional and updated training programs and fellowships and (iv)
better and more timely use of entomological data.
4.11.           Source Reduction Projects.  On the basis of entomological
studies and surveillance activities, source reduction projects will be
implemented--primarily in urban areas (especially in the periphery of new
towns and cities) where drainage and sanitation problems result in vector
breeding sites and high levels of transmission. Recently, such projects
have been undertaken in Boa Vista, Roraima and in Ariquemes and Porto
Velho, Rondonia. The latter two were supported under the Bank-financed
POLONOROESTE program. Such projects will play a major role in reducing
transmission of malaria in urban areas. Under the project, funds will be
provided for use by the Regional Directorates to determine where such works
are best employed based on entomological studies. They will be executed in
collaboration with other agencies of federal, state, and local government or
through contracts with private firms. In addition, the projec. will support
the contracting of technical assistance and training in engineering to
upgrade SUCAM's capabilities in planning and coordinating environmental
sanitation activities. The project will also include support for the
development and execution of biological control projects (e.g. introduction
of larviforous fish species in selected mosquito breeding sites).
Msurances were obtained during negotiations that SUCAM will no later than
June 30. 1990. complete entomoloeical studies and Rromvtlv thereafter
present an implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank for sourS&
yrnduction Rrojects includint identification of executing agencies (8.la).
4.12.           ERidemiological Surveillance and Treatment.  SUCAM's
epidemiological surveillance activities are comprised of active and passive
case detection, stratification of transmission (by area), and diagnosis and



18
treatment of all positive or febrile patients. Under the project, all of
these activities will be reinforced and extended to cover newly settled and
constantly expanding areas of human occupation. The project will support
field personnel and perdiems, fuel and maintenance, as well as equipment
(including 160 microscopes), materials and supplies (including 12.5 million
units of medication) required for case detection and treatment and
surveillance of epidemiological trends.
4.13.           Information-Education-Communications (Community
Mobilization). Households at risk are a critical link in the malaria
transmission cycle; their cooperation is indispensable in the fight to break
it. Studies underway since 1984 of human factors in malaria transmission
and control in Rondonia's Machadinho Settlement Project (a nev settlement
which has suffered extremely high malaria inciaence) demonstrate that human
behavior and socio-economic factors exert a strong influence ol' the
prevalence of malaria. Perceptions, attitudes, custom, occupation, and
economic status are important factors which affect the degree of contact
between human populations and the vector.  These factors also determine
interaction with the local ecology to produce conditions which can either
promote or prevent the spread of malaria. Such studies imply that it is
possible to intervene in the process of transmission vis a vis the human
element in the cycle. Options for education and community involvement will
be explored and programs appropriate to specific types of human settlement
(agricultural settlements, garimpos, urban peripheries, etc.) in the regior
will be implemented. The project will include funds to purchase equipment
and materials, and wili contract private firms for the preparation and
dissemination of educational material through radio and other mass media.
The project will also finance technical assistance in community education
and mobilization and will support the activities of teams of educators at
the regional and local levels including salaries, perdiems, travel, and
training courses for field staff.
4.14.           Disease Control in Amerindian Areas.  On the whole, health
status of Amerindians is poor and health care services that now reach
Amerindian areas are largely inadequate. This situation is aggravated by
difficulty of access to these areas and insufficient transport. The project
will reinforce control of malaria and other endemic diseases in Indian areas
through treatment of cases, vector control, and education. Epidemiological
surveillance will be strengthened by the establishment of 255 notification
posts and traintng of personnel by SUCAM. The project will support
development of improved methods for collection, registration, processing and
consolidation of epidemiological data. The project will support diagnosis,
treatment, and notification of state authorities of other diseases including
leishmaniasis, blastomycosis, and onchocerciasis. SUCAM will continue its
routine provision of vaccination against yellow fever and other diseases.
The project will provide for leasing of light aircraft or other transport
which io needed to transport personnel, patients, and supplies to and from
otherwise inaccessible areas, as well as to allow for adequate supervision
of field staff. SUCAM and FUNAI will collaborate closely in the operation
of this aerial transport system.



19
4.15.           Since vehicles are reserved procurement, the Goverrnent has
provided assurances that all new vehicles required for the adjusted malaria
control program (464 jeeps, 436 pickup trucks, 26 small to melium sized
trucks) which are included but not costed in the project will be available.
tituitionial DeveloRmen  PLgSM
4.16.           The project includes a Lajor component to help SUCAM make the
specific conceptual, technical and organizational adjustments required by
the malaria situation found in Amazonia today.
4.17.           In-Service Training.  Recent studies undertaken by SUCAM
show that an upgraded training program is needed to adjust and reinforce
conventional control methods as well as to implement new strategies for
malaria control. With over 8,700 workers in Amazonia, in addition to 15,000
volunteers, SUCAM's trairing needs are extensive and in :ecent years the
demand for training has consistently exceeded supply. The project will
include training courses for guardas, (a 21 day training course with
classroom and field training), for Endemic Disease Inspectors (a 30 day
training course), and for General Inspectors, as well as for health agents
and volunteers (notificantes) who will be trained by Inspectors in local
communities. Courses will be conducted jotntly by health education and
field operations personnel. The project will also include training of mid-
and upper-level professionals in Public Hcaith Administration, Health
Education, Planning, Epidemiology and Entomology. Furthermore, the project
will support trainer trairing and preparation of manuals, guidelines and
standards. Prior to negot'ations, SUCAM submitted to the Bank a schedule
for in-service training activities for the first year of the project.
4.18.           Training materials, travel, perdiems, and technical
assistance will also be included under the project. SUCAM has already
entered into a convenio with the Brazilian Institute for Municipal
Administration (IBAM) to assist in preparation and implementation of
training programs. In addition, SUCAM will establish convenios with other
institutions such as the Evandro Chagas Institute, the School of Tropical
Medicine of Manaus, the National Institute for Amazon Studies (INPA) as need
arises. The project will also support convenios with at least two
universities to strengthen clinical and epidemiological training in malaria.
4.19.           Information Systems.  SUCAM presently processes an enormous
amount of epidemiological, as well as payroll, accounting and budgetary
data, in large part manually. Under the project, SUCAM will adopt micro-
computer based technology for most of its data processing. All district and
regional offices will be equipped with micro-computers, as well as most
technical units in headquarters. A small mainframe will be installed in
headquarters to orovide a repository for historical data and to perform
traditional data processing functions such as payroll and accounting.  Close
integration between micro-computers and mainframe at headquarters will allow
for efficient and effective information analysis for planning and control
purposes. Diskettes will be used to transmit data from district to regional
and from regional to central headquarters. Regional and district offices
will be responsible for the operational aspects of the data processing



20
function. Day to day operational data processing will take place at the
regional or district levels with no top or lateral dependencies. Data W_ll
then be aggregated or summarized and shipped to the levels above at ;re-
determined time intervals.
4.20.           The information systems component will finance:
(i) 7 data processing analysts, 2 organization and methods analysts, 7 data
processing programers, and 6 computer operators; (ii) training; (iii)
system development and maintenance; (iv) leasing and purchase of software
and software maintenance; (v) purchase and maintenance of a central
mainframe computer; (vi) construction and maintenance of one central
computer site and 370 microcomputer sites and (vii) supplies for all
central and regional computer sites.
4.21.           Since microcomputers are reserved procurement the government
has already purchased 130 microcomputers for the project.
4.22.           Infrastructure.  Many of SUCAM's field offices are now
rented and local installations are needed to support field activities,
especially in newly occupied areas across the region. The project will
finance construction of: (i) 20 "mini-posts" (small scale field offices) in
Amapa and recuperation/enlargement of Amapa headquarters; (ii) 14 district
offices, three in Amazonas, nine in Para, and two in Maranhao; (iii) an
annex to Para's headquarters; (iv) 10 municipal installations, five in
Rondonia and five in Acre; (v) 10 "posts" (field offices), five in Roraima
and five in Mato Grosso; and (vi) five supply warehouses in Para, Maranhao
and Amapa.
4.23.           Operations Research.  Systematic operational research is the
lifeline of any successful malaria control effort. Priorities for
operations resoarch have been established by SUCAM and studies in these
areas will be financed under the project. Among the topics determined to be
of greatest importance to the adjustment of malaria control strategies in
Amazonia ure epidemiology, vecter studies, new drug testing, new pesticide
research, studies of control methods for garimpo and new settlement sites,
studies of social aspects of transmission and control, studies of diagnostic
tests, drug resistance studies, field testing of mefloquine, studies of the
integration of malaria control with the basic health care network, studies
of urban and peri-urban malaria control strategies based on environmental
sanitation works, vaccine testing studies, and studies of the organization
and management of endemic disease control.
4.24.           To finance these studies, a special operations research
budget will be established. A Secretariat within SUCAM conjisting of a
Technical Advisor, a Secretary, and a Research Steering Committee will
solicit and receive research proposals, maintain a register of and monitor
research projects, and produce reports on the meetings of the advisory
committee. The steering committee will be composed of six to eight members
from universities and institutions such as the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation
(FIOCRUZ), the National Institute for Amazon Studies (INPA), the Evandro
Chagas Institute, the Tropical Medicine Institute of Manaus, and others.



21
The comittee's responsibilities will include (i) advising the Secretariat;
(ii) reviev and selection of research projects; and (iii) analyzing reports
on project monitoring. The steering committee will elaborate norms for its
functioning and will set deadlines for receipt of research propo'als.
Members of the committee will be appointed by the Superintendent of SUCAM.
During negotiations SUCAK provided evidence that an Operations Research
Comittee has been established (Portaria 133, 17 February 1989), for the
duration of the project, which is composed of leading scientists in health
related research.
4.25.           Inter-institutional Actions for Health.  While SUCAM is
clearly the most competent agency in Brazil to undertake endemic disease
control and in particular, vector control. Certain activities such as
epidemiological surveillanse can be undertaken by state and municipal publtc
health authorities. Therefore, the program will support, in the context of
the SUDS, training activities which will facilitate the assumption of such
responsibilities by the states. Funds will also be made available to the
states and municipalities under the project for preparation of plans to
increase their participation in treatment, health education, and other
activities related to disease control (Annex 15).
V. FKJECT COSTS AND FINANCINC
A. Proect Costs
5.1.            Summary of Proiect Costs.  The total cost of the project
excluding taxes of US$8.71 million, and including US$9.0 million of
physical contingencies and US$20.8 million of price contingencies, is
estimated to be US$198.0 million equivalent, of which US$61.5 million will
be foreign exchange. The estimated detailed costs by component and
expenditure category given in Annex 17 are summarized as follows:



22
Table 5.1  Estimated Costs ($US millions)
(US$ millions)            Foreign       Total
Program                   Local      Foreign   Total      Exchange   Base Cost
A. Malaria Prevention
and Control Program   92.4        38.1     130.5       29.0          78.0
B. Institutional
Development Program   24.3        12.4      36.7       34.0          22.0
C. Repayment of PPF          .2        .7         .9      78.0           1.0
Total Base Costs         117.0       51.2     168.2       30.0         100.0
Physical Contingencies    5.5         3.5       9.0       39.0           5.0
Price Contingencies       14,0        6.8      20.8       33.0          12.0
Total Project Costs      136.5       61.5      198.0      31.0         118.0
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
5.2.           Cost Estimates.  Estimated construction costs for the
project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and cost
analysis for similar standards of construction in corresponding facilities
within the Amazon region. Estimated costs of pesticides, equipment,
furniture and vehicles are based on current c.i.f. unit prices plus
estimated local transportation costs to their place of use within the
region. Technical assistance consulting services costs are based upon
current market rates in Brazil. Salary and per diem costs ore estimated on
the basis of the official scales of the project executing agencies. All
baseline cost estimates were made excluding taxes, notably import duties,
merchandize circulation taxes (ICM), and taxes on industrialized products
(IPI). Being a widely used standard in Brazil and for its relatively
stable parity with the US dollar, the OTN was used in measuring project
costs. The US dollar/OTN exchange rate was 8.06 at the time of appraisal in
November 1988. After that date, any changes in number or price of project
inputs, will be introduced directly in US dollars.
5.3.           Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes physical
contingencies equal to 10% of the estimated costs of civil works, equipment
and materials and 5% of the estimated costs of pesticides and supplies. The
project cost also includes price escalation contingencies calculated for the
five year period beginning 1990. The following estimated Annual rates of
international price increases are used in the calculation of price
contingencies:  5.3% for 1990 and 4.1% for the period thereafter.  As it is



23
difficult to differentiate between price trends for manufactured goods,
civil works and technical assistance, the abose estimates are applicable to
expected price escalation of all expenditures. The abo e estimated rates
have been applied to local and foreign costs as well since periodic currency
rate adjusuents based upon purchasing power parity would compensate the
differences between projected US$ inflation and local inflation rates.
5.4.            Foreign Exchange Comgonent.  The foreign exchange component
is US$61.5 million equivalent or about 31.0% of the total project cost. The
calculation of the foreign excnange component is based on the expectation
that: (a) all civil works will be contre-ted by local firms, (b) all of the
pesticide and the mainframe computer will be diractly imported and (c) other
equipment, furniture, and reagents will be supplied by local manufacturers.
B.  Prolect Finaning PInD
5.5.            The proposed loan of 99.0 million equivalent will finance
100% of the total estimated foreign exchange cost and 19.0% of the loca'
sost of the project. The loan will be for 15 years, including a five-year
grace period. The Bank loan will be made to the Federative Republic of
Brazil, which will carry the foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart
funds as necessary to cori.lete the project.  Retroactive financing in an
amount not to exceed US$6 million is recommended to finance start-up costs
of the project initiated after appraisal, November 1, 1988. The financing
plan is summarized in Table 5.2, below.
Table 5.2:  Financing Plan*
Financier            Local           Foreign               Total
($US miliions)
Federal Government   99.0            0.0                    99.0
IBRD                  37.5          61 5                    99.0
Total      136.5          61.5                   198.0
* includes physical and price contingencies, excluding taxes
5.6.            Recurrent Costs.  The annual incremental recurrent costs of
the project would be about US$19.6 million during the second and subsequent
years of operation which would represent 6.2% of SUCAM's projected recurrent
expenditures in 1989. SUCAM can be expected to meet these additional
expenditures and its budget for malaria control has already been increased
by $US20 million for 1989.



24
C. fKturiVAn=
5.7.           Procurement under the Bank Loan is suinarized below
in Table 5.3:
Table 5.3: Procurement by Category of Expenditure
(US$ millions)
C-tegLQtCy                           Procurement Method
ICB       LCB        Other     NA.        Total Cost
Civil Works           -        15.7        8.5                    24.2
(-)       (7.9)      (4.3)     (.)          (12.2)
Equipmont            4.9        9.1        2.2                    16.2
(4.9)      (4.6)      (1.1)     (-)          (10.6)
Pesticides          25.5                    -         -           25.5
(25.5)       (-)        (-)      (-)          (25.5)
Drugs                 -         2.8        7.2        -           10.0
(1.4)     (3.6)      (.)          (5.0)
Other Materials       -           -        6.6                      6.6
(-)        (-)       (2.9)     (-)           (2.9)
Contractual Serv.               4.3                                4*3
(Information         (-)       (2.1)       (-)      (-)           (2.1)
Systems)
Incremental
Operating Costs       -           -         -        93.5          93.5
(-)        (-)        (-)     (35.2)        (35.2)
Training/TA           -                   14.0        -            14.0
(-)        (-)       (3.6)     (-)           (3.6)
Research              -           -        3.7        -             3.7
(-)   (-)      ~~(1.9)    ()(1.9)
Total               30.4        31.9      42.2       93.5        198.0
(30.4)     (16.0)    (17.4)    (35.2)        ( 99.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by the Bank loan.
5.8.           Contracts for larger environmental sanitation works and new
construction (SUCA:1 field offices) estimated not to exceed US$1.0 million
per contract (total US$15.7 million, including contingencies) financed under
the loan will be awarded according to local competitive bidding procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank and will not exclude foreign participation.
Civil works contracts below US$30,000 comprising refurbishing of existing
facilities and small environmental sanitation works, estimated to cost in
total US$4.5 million equivalent, will be awarded under local shopping
procedures after requesting at least 3 quotations. Civil works comprising
extension of existing facilities and construction of small scattered new
facilities in remote locations estimated not to exceed in total $US4.0
million equivalent will be carried out by force account through agreements
between SUCAM and other public agencies which will be reviewed and approved
by the Bank prior to their signing.



25
5.9.           Equipment and furniture amounting to US$16.0 million
equivalent including contingencies, will be grouped, to the extent
possible, in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for
pesticides (amounting to $US25.5 million) and equipmnt in excess of
US$250,000 vill be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance vith
the Bank Guidelines of May 1985. This will include the purchase of a
mainframe computer (US$3.1 million). Small items or groups of items
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent, or specialized items -
such as contractual services for development and maintenance of the
informtion system and leasing of aircraft - for which ICB is not practical,
will be procured through LCB procedures which will be acceptable to the
Bank. These items will not exceed an aggregate total of US$16.0 million, or
7.7% of the total estimated cost of goods, including continger:ies. Readily
available off-the-shelf goods or standard specification comsaoiities of not
more than US$25,000 in value could be procured on the basis of prices quoted
by at least three local suppliers. Iteou, so procured will not exceed a
total of US$16.0 million, or 7.5% of the total estLaated cost of goods and
works. Brazilian legislation prohibits imports of vehicles and micro-
computer hardware; therefore these "reserved procurement" items were
excluded frool project costs and from Bank disbursements.  During
negotiations, assurances will be obtained that the procurement procedures
will be carried out as described here and according to the guidelines and
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of May 1985 (Rara. 8.lb).
5.10.          The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance will be in accordance with the August 1981 "Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, an by the
World Bank as Executing Agency.' Incremental operating costs include
US$93.5 million for incremental staff salaries, vehicle maintenance and
fuel, for which procurement is inapplicable.
5.11.          For the purposu of comparing foreign and local bids under
ICB, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of custom duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of
c.i.f. price at port of entry, whichever is lower.
5.12.          The Bank will review and approve before contract award, all
draft bid documents and contracts for goods to be procured through ICB and
the first five contracts for procurement of goods and works under LCB which
exceed $US100,000 equivalent. In addition, prior Bank review of procurement
documentation for contracts above US$0.5 million equivalent will be required
for all new civil works. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation
will cover 350 of the total amount of goods and works financed by the Bank.
D. Disbursamnts
5.13.          Health projects in Brazil have a good record of
disbursements. The Rondonia Health project has been completed in six years,
and the Sao Paulo Health project, with three and a half years of
implementation is expected to be completed as scheduled in five years.
Becasse of SUCAM's field experience and its excellent record as an



26
instltution, no major delays in disbursements are anticipated. The
disbursement schedule has therefore been maintained at five and a half
years, siLilar to the project's timetable. The project Completion Date
vill be December 31, 1994, and the Project Closing Date will be June 30,
1995.
5.14.           The proceeds of the IBRD loan will be disbursed as follows:
-    50% for civil works, includ'ng architectural fees;
-    100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures
for equipment and furniture;
-    100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures
for chemical supplies, drugs, and other materials;
-    50% for contractual services;
-    100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services retained
abroad and 50% of local expenditures for training; local
technical assistance and research.
-    38% of total expenditures for eligible operating costs on a
declining basis, starting from 60% down to 32.5% as described
below (para. 5.15).
No disbursements will be made against vehicles or microcomputers.
5.15.           Disbursements for local expenditures above US$200,000
equivalent will be made after receipt of full documentation, except in the
case of civil works by force account; disbursements for operating costs,
and for goods and services provided under contracts valued at US$200,000
equivalent or less for local currency expenditures and US$50,000 equivalent
or less for foreign expenditures will be made against certified statements
of expenditure (SOE). The SOE will be certified by the project implementing
agency incurring the expenditure and by the Department of Financial
Administration (DAF) in SUCP4 headquarters in Brasilia, in its capacity of
Project Financial Administrator. Supporting documentation will be retained
by each implementing agency and DAF, and made available for inspection
during Bank supervision missions and by external auditors. Incremental
operating costs, including wages and supervision will be financed on a
declining scale starting at 60% up to an aggregate of US$6.0 million;
thereafter 50% up to a total disbursement aggregate of US$11.0 million;
thereafter 40% up to a total disbursement aggregate of US$18.0 million;
32.5% thereafter.
E. Accounts and Audits
5.16.           To facilitate Bank disbursements a Special Account will be
established with loan funds in dollars at the Central Bank with an initial
deposit of US$6 million, which would be operated by SUCAM. Disbursement
requests for the replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted at
agreed intervals.
5.17.           The MOH's Secretariat of Budgeting and Finance Programming
(SOFP) will be in charge of allocating the project funds to SUCAM's sub-
account.  SUCAM  will channel project funds through its sub-account, from                   I
headquarters to the respective Regional Directorates using a Danker's order.



27
Project funds vill be managed by SUCAK's DAF and vill be cleerly
identifiable within SUCAM's account to allov annual audits by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and according to procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Copies of SUCAN's audited statements will be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report will
include an opinion and comments, as nscassary, on the methods employed in
compiling the statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of
supporting documents, their eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's legal agreement, and the standard of record-keeping and internal
controls related to the foregoing.
VI.  rwRCT
A.  ProlectOgaiainadaaemt
6.1.           SUCAM will be responsible for overall project implementation
and coordination. As a federal agency within the organizational structure
of the Ministry of Health, SUCAM is subject to the legislation governing the
administration of the public sector.
6.2.           The project will be located in the Coordination Unit for
Projects Management (COGEP) which was created by Portaria Ministerlal No.
421, August 27, 1987 and is directly subordinate to the Superintendent.
Hierarchically, COGEP is located at the same level as other departments
(Department of Endemic Disease Control, Finance, Personnel, Administration)
and therefore benefits from a direct reporting relationship to the
Superintendent and the ability to draw on the expertise of other
departments.   The director of COGEP is appointed by the Superintendent.
The project manager will report directly to the director of COGEP. Prior to
negotiations, evidence was provided that a project manager with experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank had been appointed.
6.3.           Management units have been created within COGEP for
information systems (GEIN), human resources (GERHUM), civil works (GEOC),
IEC (GEIEC), as well as an administrative advisor (ASAD) and a secretariat
(SEC). COGEP will be advised by a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)
created to monitor coordination of the project components and evaluate
project performance. The TAC will be comprised of the Superintendent,
Department Directors (Department of Endemic Disease Control, and Departments
of Finance, Personnel &nd Administration) and the Director of the Malaria
Division (DIM).
6.4.           The central project management unit (COGEP) will be assisted
by a regional support center in Belem composed of a director, technical
advisors and an administrative advisor with a secretary and two assistants.
This entity will provide technical support to the regional directorates in
implementing and coordinating the project.  Assurances were obtained during
neaotiations that SUCAM will prepare a final plan for aooointment of a
technical suooort unit for review by the Bank by December 31. 1990 (para
8.1c).



28
6.5.            At the federal level, the Superintendent of SUCAM will be
responsible for execution of the program and has delegated to COGEP the
responsibility for project management. The management of COGEP will in turn
dalegate a portion of its authority to state level coordinators. Project
management will involve the 'ollowing activities: (i) Planning: with the
help of COPLAN, project manag ment will determine annually how the project
should be implemented and the quantity and type of resources needed as well
as the use of those resources; (ii) Budgeting: with the help of COPLAN the
project will be translated into monetary terms covering specific periods and
budgets for the regional directorates will be assigned to the Regional
Directorates responsible for implementing the project; (iii) Operation and
Accounting: the DAF will maintain a register of resources utilized and of
results achieved and (iv) Reporting and analysis: reports will compare
plarnned results and inputs with real results and inputs. These reports
will be regularly submitted for analysis co the Superintendent, TAC, and
MOH.
6.6.            At the state level, responsibility for implementation of the
project rests with each of the nine SUCAM Regiona'l Directorates. The
Regional Director will coordInate the project by supervising operations and
maintaining records of resources used and results obtained and by
preparation of the above-mencioned reports on inputs and results. Together
with his regional and district level personnel, the regional director will
regularly analyze project results and propose appropriate changes in the
project, if necessary, to the management of COGEP. The Regional Director
will be supported by a full-time malariologist who will work exclusively on
the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SUCAM shall
have aoRointed by July 31. 1990 a public health specialist with exRerience
in malariology to each of the Regional Directorates in Amazonia (para 8.ld).
B. Status of Project Preparation
6.7.            The Bank has been working with SUCAM since 1986 to define an
Adjusted Malaria Control Program for Amazonia. After a Bank financed
regional seminar on Malaria Control in 1986 in Rondonia, the government
requested an advance from the Project Preparation Facility to prepare the
program with the assistance of Brazilian experts In March 1988, the
Adjusted Malaria Control Program was agreed upon by SUCAM's management.
Subsequently implementation has started. Field activities will be underway
with the beginning of the 1989 financial year for which the government has
already allocated an incremental amount of US$20 million equivalent for the
program. The project management unit, COGEP, is in place and fully
functioning.
VII. PR*CiJ BZIKMFTS AND RISKS
A.  Kuvirotmental Iac
7.1.           Although the project will use DD'., no negative environmental
impact is foreseen since the amounts to be used are minimal in comparison



29
with those used in agricultural projects, and the areas to be sprayed with
those pesticides are small. Usage of DDT as a residual indoor insecticide
causes no environmental contamination and does not constitute a health
risk. Furthermore, the project includes continuous training activities on
safe spraying techniques and surveillance of pesticide use and
manipulation. The OPN 11.04 on 'Guidelines for the Selection and Use of
Pesticides in Public Health Programs in Bank-financed Projects" has been
followed in this project.
B. Proiect Benefits
7.2.            The project is urgently needed in view of the deteriorating
malaria situation with its high costs in terms of human health and reduced
agricultural productivity. The project will benefit over 16 million persons
who are at high risk for malaria including Amerindians. Morbidity and
mortality from malaria wi'll be greatly reduced and reintroduction inito areas
where it has been under control will decline. Reductions in agricultural
productivity due to high malaria morbidity during planting and harvesting
seasons will be reversed.
7.3.            An additional benefit will be an increase of SUCAM's
efficiency due to the strengthening and improvement of management,
administration and logistical operations.  The institutional strengthening
component and particularly the in-service training program and
computerization of SUCAM's information systems, will have a direct effect,
improving SUCAM's efficiency in controlling other diseases such as yellow
fever, Chagas' disease, bubonic pest and trachoma in the Amazon region and
elsewhere in the country.    The project will strengthen cooperation between
SUCAM and FUNAI through upgrading of endemic disease control activities in
Amerindian areas and will allow FUNAI to profit from SUCAM's many years of
operational experience in public health.
C. Prolect Risks
7.4.            Ia the past SUCAM has had difficulty recruiting and retaining
staff because of (i) low salaries as a federal agency; and (ii) the harsh
and at times dangerous working conditions in the field. During project
preparation strategies to insure the employment of all field staff required
for successful control of malaria were discussed. These included (i) the
contracting of SUCAM field staff (guardas, level 3 - 19) through
municipalities, which are not subject to federal salary scales and (ii) the
retaining of some professional staff to be delegated to SUCAM by the state
health secretariats, which are also not subject to federal salary scales.
SUCAM presently uses both of these strategies with good results.
7.5.            During negotiations. assurances were obtained that. if
necessary. SUCAM will arrange for contract staff to be retained by states
and municiDalities (allowing for payment of better wages and higher per



30
diems for field work), SUCAM shall pay such states and municipalities to
cover the corresponding cost, and the SUDS will be the mechanism through
which funds are transfered to Lhe states and municipalities (para 8.le).
VIII.  AGREDKW?S REACHED ANI  RECOMKNDATIONS
8.1.               Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) SUCAM will no later than June 30, 1990 complete
entomological studies and promptly thereafter present an implementation
schedule satisfactory to the Bank for source reduction projects including
identification of executing agencies (para 4.11).
(b)   the procurement procedures will be carried out as
lescribed here and according to the guidelines and Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits of May 1985 (para 5.9).
(c)   SUCAM will prepare a plan for the appointment of a
technical support unit for review by the Bank by December 31, 1993 (para
6.4).
(d)   SUCAM shall have appointed by July 31, 1990 a
public health specialist with experience in malariology to each of the
Regional Directorates in Amazonia (para 6.6).
(e) if necessary, SUCAM will arrange fot contract staff
to be retained by states and municipalities (allowing for payment of better
wages and higher per diems for field work).
8.2.               With the above conditions and assurances, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$99.0 million to the Ministry of Health of
the Federative Republic of Brazil, to be repaid over a period of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace.



1   Population Data, Average Annual Rates of Growth, 1970-80 . . . 32
d&  Malaria: Annual Parasitic Incidence 1983-87. . . . . . . . . . 32
2   Epidemiological Data on Malaria - 1987 . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
3   Municipalities vith Largest Number of Recorded Malaria Cases . 34
4    Epidemiological Characteristics of Mining Camps. . . .  . . . 35
5   Mining Camps vith More than 200 Cases of Malaria . . . . . . . 36
6   Population Fluctuations in Gariopo Maria Bonita. . . . . . . . 38
7   Para State Garimpos Identified by SUCAM (to 1985). . . . . . . 39
8   Epidemiological Characteristics of Human Settlements . . . . . 40
9    Epidemiological Characteristics of Urban Malaria Transmission.  41
10  Pesticide Application: Houses Sprayed 1983-87. . . . . . . . . 42
11  Safe Use of Pesticides ....  .  .  .    ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 43
12  Training Schedule for SUCAM - Year One . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
13  Malaria Chemotherapies and Drug Resistance . . . . . . . . . . 49
14  Malaria Research Institutions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
15  Inter-institutional Actions: SUCAM and the SUDS. . . . . . . . 51
16  Health in Amerindian Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
17  Cost   Tables.     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    53
18  SUCAM Budget Expenditures 1988/89. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
19  Key Project Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
20  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
21  SUCAM Organization Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
22  Project Organization Chart . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . 61
23  Selected Background Documents Available in Project File. . . . 62
24  Maps ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  65



32
POPUJIATIOU 1936
AV~  A&L 3&T   OF  Wfl1970-80
Total Population                  Avg.Annual Growth Rate
1986                               1970-1980 in %
Para                 4,478,972                                  4.7
Rondonia             1,205,031                                 15.3
Roraima                117,657                                  6.8
Acre                   369,245                                  3.4
Amazonas             1,825,651                                  4.1
Aapa                   227,147                                  4.4
Maranhao (all)       4,765,405                                  3.1
Mato Grosso          1,680,915                                  6.6
Goias (all)          1,058,532
ARMUL"
ANNUAL PARASITIC lNCIDENCE 1983 -1987
STATE            1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
Para             29.78     31.49      26.55      23.60     25.42
Rondonia        125.20    168.94    162.48    159.11    163.55
Roraima         175.69    154.62    143.79       92.02     88.87
Acre             35.09      33.91     28.35      32.39      57.46
Amazonas          6.35       5.07      6.39       8.39       8.01
Amapa            23.78      34.87     34.29      36.18      31.55
Maranhao (all)   4.98        5.44      8.19      11.47      11.54
Mato Grosso      11.25       7.36      8.14      11.39      12.17
Goias (all)       8.83       6.21      6.73       6.55       5.48
Amazon Region   21.15       25.52     23.66      26.99      29.40



33
AMU
BRAZIL: EPIDEITOUMCA  DAA         MLR - 1287
Number of Blood Samples
STATE
Kxamined        Positive        SPR*       API*1
AKAZONIA (Long-Term Eradication Area):
1.  Rondonia              621,461         228,866          36.8       163.6
2.  Acro                   79,327          21,943          27.7        57.5
3.  Roraima                49,829          11,198          22.5        89.1
4.  Amazonas              100,246          14,988          14.9         7.9
5.  Para                  4R6,942         119,120          24.5        25.4
6.  Amapa                  27,406           7,332          26.7        30.9
7.  Maranhao              355,768          54,721          15.4        11.1
8.  Goias                 116,183           5,854           5.0         5.4
9.  Mato Grosso           100,289          21,335          21.3        11.9
Subtotal           1,937,451          485,357         25.0        29.4
NON-AMAZON (Short-Term Eradication Area):
10.  All other states  1,205,799            18,767           1.6         0.4
Total              3,143,250          504,124         16.0          8.2
Source: SUCAM/MOH
*SPR - Slide Positivity Rate; APR - Annual Parasite Incidence
1 Calculated on the basis of the 1986 population figures.



34
AN    3
IEEIIPALTIESVImH 1H  IARCUST NWUK&  QF REOD MALARIIA CAK  N1936
SLIDES    POSITIVE         TRANSMISSION
STATE               IMUNICIPALITY        TESTED    SLIDES    SPR*   SITUATION
Acre               Placido de Castro      16,952    4,051      23.9      Settlement
Amapa             Macapa                  23,042    5,417      23.5      (a)
hato Grosso        Colider                21,308    5,837      27.4      Mining
Karanhao           Imperatriz             17,230    5,430      31.5      (b)
Para              Sao Felix do Xingu    45,963   25,656        55.8      Mining
Itaituba               36,452   lu,661     45.7       Mining
Maraba                 26,968    9,513      35.3      Mng/Sett
Redencao               12,847    7,007      54.3      (c)
Santarem               15,985    4,767      29.8      (d)
Santana do Aragu^ia   12,855    4,285       33.3      Settlement
Rondonia          Ariquemes              136,091   44,211      32.5      Settlemcnt
Porto Velho           101,058   37,134      36.7      (e)
Costa Marques          53,626   21,252      39.6      Settlement
Jaru                   53,161   14,080      26.5      Settlement
Ji-Parana              37,591   13,5'.7     36.0      Settlement
Rolim de Moura         31,503   12,336      39.2      Settlement
Presidente !.edici     32,295   12,072      37.4      Settlement
Guajara Mirim          20,305    7,003      34.3      Mng/Sett
Cerejeira              19,970    6,781      34.0      Settlement
Ouro Preto d'Oeste    20,228    5,115       25.3      Settlement
Cacoal                 14,014    4,799      34.2      Settlement
Roraima            Boa Vista              29,984    5,160      17.2      (f)
(a)  Macapa receives cases from the whole territory, including the Calcoene and
Oiapoque mining camps, and neighboring islands; peri-urban transmission is
reduced.
(b) Imperatriz receives cases from mining camps and from the region of the
Belem/Brasilia highway.
(c) Redencao receives cases from the mining operations in Sao Felix do Xingu.
(d) Santarem receives cases from the Itaituba mining camps.
(e) Porto Velho receives cases from the Madeira River mining camps; there is
transmission in the rural areas as well as in the peri-urban areas.
(f) Boa Vista receives cases from the settlements and mining operations.
*SPR - Slide Positivity Rate



'35
AUN   4
KFIDDHOLOGICAL OIACMISTICS OF Iflw=G ClP*
1. Po3ulation. The inhabitants are primarily migrants from the
Northeastern states (Maranhao, Ceara, Piaui, etc.) and from the Center-West,
especially Goias. They are very mobile. Mining is a temporary activity for
some, but for most it is a professional avocation. Many have no knowledge
of the way in which malaria is transmitted and do not take preventive
measures such as the use of mosquito nets, screens, or repellents. Self-
medication is comuon. There are asymptomatic carriers of the plasmodium
(having no fever). The miners do not join together to combat malaria.
Social ties are generally weak.
2.  Housing.  Precarious wgrotas" or  baixoes   (ravines) are the basic kind
of dwelling. These have incomplete walls or none at all. Often they are
merely covered with plastic material and offer very little protection.
Dwellings may be of better quality in associated towns, in mining
headquarters", or along associated landing strips. Sometimes in the latter
areas conditions may permit spraying of walls with pesticides.
3. Environment. The mining operatons usually take place in the forest, on
a river bed from which the gold is extracted. Collections of water close to
the miners serve as breeding places for the mosquito and nearby vegetation
also provides natural protection for the vectors. Vector proliferation is
highly favored by the deforestation that occurs which exposes breeding
places to sunlight. Furthermore, the miners provide the vector with an
ample and easily accessible source of blood meals.
4. Vectora. Entomological researchers at Maria Bonita and Tucuma garimpos
in Sao Felix do Xingu captured 1240 specimens of which 437 were
intradomiciliary catches, 10 peridomiciliary, and 793 extradomiciliary.
Intradomiciliary catches were mostly An.(N) darlinji, with 86% of the
mosquitos caught in such areas (376) and 98% of the total number of
specimens of this species. Extradomicliary catches were predominantly
An.(N) Glbitarsis, with 684 specimens, corresponding to 98% of all specimens
of this species caught during the survey. An.(N) nunestovari follows with
44 specimens caught in intradomiciliar areas, 3 in peridomiciliar areas, and
40 in extradomiciliar areas, for a total of 87 specimens.
5. Parasites. In the Cumaru area, as well as in Itaituba, P. falciparux
predominates and there are often cases of strains which do not respond to
treatment with the drug schemes used by SUCAM, which include chloroquine,
amondiaquine, sulphadoxine/pyrimetamine, and even quinine for some cases.
* based on SUCAM data from the Cumaru garimpo in Para, up to 1986
Source: Agostinho Cruz Marques, 'Main Malaria Situations in the Brazilian
Amazon", paper written for TDR/WHO meetings on Research in Support of
Malaria Control in the Amazon Region held in Brasilia, April 28 - 30, 1988.



36
MINING CAMPS WI1TH IE   HN200 CASS O          JMAARTA (1984 + 1985~)
Municipio Sao Felix do Xingu:
Guarapara                 4,033
Gar. do Cuca              2,778
Grota do Gaviao           1,764
Grota do Aviao            1,400      Grota do Tarzan              487
Grota do Caxias           1,340      Grota do Fofoquinha          447
Grotao                    1,267      Grota da Pedra               442
Grota do Sargento            963     Grota da Acaizal             432
Grota do Recanto             9oO     Grota da Tereza              396
Grota da Cobra              869      Pista M. Bonita              391
Grota M.Ferreira            863      Grota Seca                   339
Grota do Axixa               816     Grota da Mutuca              308
Grota da Fofoca              741     Grota da Taboca              290
Grota Macedonia             675      Grota do Compadre            270
Grota do Oswaldo            612      Grota Rica                   238
Grota da Onca                513     Pista do Cabano              224
Grota Rica II                505     Garimpo Rio Branco           219
Municipio It ituba:
Garimpo Jamanxym          1,818
Garimpo Gripuri           1,754      Garimpo Penedo               412
Garimpo Marupa            1,650      Garimpo Mamoal               412
Garimpo Rio Novo          1,437      Garimpo Jorrao               345
Garimpo do Rato           1,022      Garimpo Mamae Ana            326
Garimpo Sao Jorge         1,020      Garimpo Est.das Cobras       318
Garimpo Palhal              994      Garimpo Jaboral              311
Garimpo Cuiu Cuiu           874      Garimpo Goiano               288
Garimpo Tocantins            848     Garimpo Tropas               283
Garimpo Batalha              759     Carimpo Botica               275
Garimpo Palito              611      Garimpo Canta Galo           270
Garimpo Sao Domingos         592     Garimpo Agua Branca          264
Garimpo Porto Rico          481      Garimpo Patrocinio           226
Garimpo Jutai II            472      Garimpo Sta. Felicidade    225
Garimpo Porto Alegre        428      Garimpo Surubim Velho        208
Garimpo Sao Jose II         417      Garimpo Serra Verde          202



37
ANUC 5
,P4g 2 of 2
la=g CAMPS WITH  OU TFAN 200 CASKS 0  MALARIIA (1984 + 1985)
Municipio Xaraba:
Grota do Sovero           1,709
Gariupo Serra Pclada      1,390     Grota da Onca               421
Garimpo Peladinha           770     Grota Rica                   277
Garimpo Rio Novo            596     Grota do Capim               252
Municipios Santana do Araguaia, Jose Porfirio,
and Conceicao do Araguaia:
Garimpo Morada da Prata    801
Garimpo Forquilha           674     Garimpo Ressaca            1,138
Mad. Jose Alves             540     Garimpo Japao                609
Garimpo Carrapato           522     Oca Hineracao                354
Garimpo Mandir              375     Garimpo Babacu               202



38
ozFuI                    IN C      O     A      TA
(A MANUAL GOLDt MIKNINGANI
MAY - im   1986
POPULATION
CAMP SITS                  ml          2        W3        U!4        VK5
Pista M.Bonita            129         56         49        99         12
Grotao                    296        144        365        352       173
Grota do Caxias           472        243        261        175        80
Grota da Fofoca           188        240        177        114        71
Grota do Indio            209        178        110        112        63
Grota do Mutuca           256        176         77        116        50
Grota do Barroso            21        20         13         30          2
Grota do Osvaldo            20        44         67         62        31
Grota da Agua Azul                    11         23         16         8
Grota da Fofoquinha          -         2         23         21        14
Grota da Ilusao              -        10         15         18         2
Grota do Tarzan              -       118        161        134        24
Grota di M.Ferreira          -        39        142         92        43
Pista Gorotire                         -          -          -        40



39
PAD  SkT  GAXEOSIDENTFIEDI   UA
(tP  0 MD OF 1985)
Itaituba                  576       Rio Maria                   6
Sao Felix do Xingu        165       Xinguara                    5
Maraba                    113       Jacunda                     5
Santana do Araguaia        13       Redencao                    3
Senador Jose Porfirio      12       Vizeu                       3
Conceicao do Araguaia      10       Portel                      1
Almerin                    10       Juruti                      1
Altanira                    9       TOTAL                     932



40
1. Poulation. Population comprised primarily of migrants from Parana,
Hato Grosso, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Espirito Santo states. Most have
no prior experience vith malaria. Many do not know how malaria is
transmitted and usually do not adopt protective measures such as the use of
mosquito nets or screens. The latter may be explained by the low economic
status of most migrants; their dwellings are rustic and provide no
protection against the mosquito vector. Some settlers who do understand the
nature of malaria transmission adopt some preventive measures such as
avoiding nighttime bathing in streams (-igarap*sT) or getting home early
(before nightfall). Some settlers practice self-medication but also go to
SUCAM and to other health care providers.
2.   Environnt.  Most settlement projects in the region are located in
areas of humid forest which are cut by many small streams. Such areas are
rich in arthropod vectors. The presence of the settlers and the process of
deforestation favors proliferation of the mosquito vector. Human activities
such as forest felling which result in the daming of igarapes provide
excellent breeding sites for accelerate reproduction of anopheles
mosquitoes. Much time passes between initial settlement and the beginning
of improvements in living conditions among the settlers; many families do
not withstand the difficulties, are especially weakened by repeated bouts of
malaria, and in the end give up their lands to move elsewhere.
3.  Ug_iJng.  Initial dwellings are usually precarious, bare;y providing
cover from the elements. They are often built only from materials found in
the immediate environment - small pieces of timber, palm leaves, straw,
vines, etc. The settlers are not well protected from the vector in these
dwellings in the absence of effectively sprayable surfaces. Over time,
dwelling construction improves providing better conditions for protection
against intra-domiciliary feeding by the mosquito v2ctor.
4. Vectors Entomological research is being carried out by INPA, FIOCRUZ,
and SUCAM. Anopheles darlingi has been found in densities suitable for
maintenance of high levels of malaria transmission. Other vectors are also
present. Studies are underway to determine the relative significance of
exophilic (outdoor feeding) activity of vectors in the transmission cycle.
5. arasites. Plasmodiu= falci2aru= is the main parasite form. In 1986,
it was responsible for 64.3 percent of all malaria cases recorded in INCRA
projects. Resistant strains of the parasite have been identified often.
Therefore, special training for physicians in the use of alternative
treatment schemes is required.
* based on data obtained from the Machadinho Settlement Project, Rondonia
Source: *Main Malaria Situations in the Brazilian Amazon", A. Cruz Marques,
1988



41
ANNME 9
KPDIOUGICALL CAATisTISO   R    MALARILA TRANSMISSION
1.              Some Amazonian cities receive malaria cases from rural areas
in the same municipality or from neighboring municipalities.   This is the
case with Santarem, REndencao, Conceicao do Araguaia, Altamira, Maraba,
Araguaina, Imperatriz, Mauss, Itacoatiara, Humaita, Ariquemes, and Guajara
Mirim.
2.              Other cities attract malaria cases from a much broader area,
even from the entire Amazon region; such is the case with Macapa, Belem,
Manaus, Boa Vista, Porto Velho, Rio Branco and Cuiaba.
3.              In many of the above cities, especially those undergoing
expansion, malaria transmission occurs in new neighborhoods which have some
rural characteristics; mosquito breeding sites are present as well as
infected individuals who come in from rural areas. This situation is common
in Porto Velho, Ariquemes, and Macapa. Porto Velho, which attracts many
migrants from the int3rior of Rondonia, had an estimatad 5,000 endoganous
cases in 1985. Most of these cases were concentrated in the new
neighborhoods of Chapadao, Sao Sebastiao, Caladinho, and Nova Floresta. The
city of Ariquemes is strongly influenced by high transmission rural zones
including the Machadinho and Cujubin settlement projects. In addition,
Ariquemes has several neighborhoods cut by streams that have become
excellent mosquito breeding sites (SUCAM has focused on eliminating them).
Macapa receives malaria cases from all of Amapa state and from the "islands"
of Para state. Out of 1,635 cases investigated, 193 were found to be
endogenous cases from the peripheral neighborhoods of Jardim Liberdade,
Auritizal, a;.d Pacoval.
4.              Some cities are little affected by the inflow of Plasmodia
carriers due to low or zero "receptivity"; transmission is residual and/or
the principal vector, AnoDheles danlinJ i is not easily found in the city or
its peripheral neighborhoods. Such is the case with Belem and Manaus.
Furthemore, the expansion of Manaus 'n recent years is due primarily to in-
migration from rural zones with low malaria transmission.
5.              Although urban peripheries in the Amazon region are
epidemiologically not as important as high transmission zones they have,
nevertheless, contributed to the maintainance of endemicity in some areas.
Source: "Main Malaria Situations in the Brazilian Amazon", A. Cruz Marques,
1988



42
ANR  10
_ _TCIDE APLICATI          Rs S       1983 -1987
1983        1984         1985           1986            1987
Par&             415,806     409,188      480,547        517,457         411,025
Rondonia         126,589     191,762      248,430        218,089         238,684
Roraima           17,146      14,715       21,211         17,595          17,763
Acre              45,260      41,574       44,009         59,755          59,295
Amazonas          49,795      84,071       83,266         80,662          75,868
Amapa             42,682      37,825       40,180         42,097          29,261
Kar^nhao         380,366     372,186      379,060        418,809         749,290
Hato Grosso      199,075     176,600      142,638        133,945         115,654
Goias            161,807     147,889      185,534        146,870         132,314
Amazon
Region         1,464,722   1,475,810    1,624,875      1,635,279       1,829,244



43
ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 5
SANK  0SS O    STCIDKS
HOW to Avoid Health Risks and Protect the Knviroxinent
General Princioles
All pesticides are a risk factor for human beings and animals, but
there is a difference between the intrinsic toxicity of the product and the
danger they represent.  Highly toxic preparations are not used for vector
control due tco the difficulty in reducing human exposure to them.
One way of measuring the potential toxicity of a pesticide, especially
in relation to humans and other mAmmals, is to estimate the quantity of
toxic component per kilogram of body weight needed, either orally or
dermaly, to kill 50% of experimental animals, generally rats and
occasionally rabbits. This is called the average lethal dose or LD-50.
Toxicity may vary by way of ingestion or contamination, or by formulation of
the product (liquid or solid). Based on these considerations WHO has
established tables for the toxicity and degree of danger of pesticides,
under the qualification of highly hazardous (HH), moderately hazardous (MH),
slightly hazardous (SH), and unlikely hazardous (UH).
Based on such characteristics of toxicity, health programs classify
pestiLides by risk groups, from I to IV, recoramending not to use the groups
I and II, and to use when possible groups III (slightly hazardous) and IV
(unlikely hazdrdous).
Studies on toxicology indicate that products belonging to the same
group, like the organophosphorus compounds (OP), have a different degree of
toxicity. For example, Parathion, which is used in agriculture, is the more
toxic with an LD-50 for rats of 3 mg/kg of body weight (oral dose); while
Temephos (Abate R) has an LD-50 for rats of 2.600 mg/kg (oral dose) and
4.000 mg/kg by dermal. contamination.
Another OP is Malathion, used for public health in Brazil, having an
LD-50 of 1.000 mg/kg of body weight (oral dose) in rats, and over 4.000 by
iermal contamination. However, inadequate storage in tropical areas may
allow changes in the chemical composition of the product, transforming it
into Isomalathion. which is highly toxic. An accident of this kind occurred
in Pakistan in 1976, and 2,500 workers (sprayers) of the malaria control
project became sick, of which five died.
Except for pirethroids and regulators of insect growth in the larval
phase, few insecticides have been incorporated in the Brazil control
programs.
Besides toxicity, another feature to be considered on chemicals is the
way it is used, i.e. type of formulation; concentration; method of
utilization; accidental food exposure; absence of labels; inadequate



44
Page 2 of 5
Ltooling either because of its content or the language used; contamination
of the barrel or boxes; inadequate storage; illiteracy; lack of proper
training; or lack of information of the beneficiaries. Very frequencly the
population is aware of the danger related to the ingestion of an insecticide
(orally), but not of the danger of its absorption through the skin,
particularly in hot climates.
Control of Endemic Diseases
SUCAM is responsible for the control of Malaria; Chagas Disease,
Leishmaniasis; Schistosomiasis; the control/eradication of A. a2p.fti and
A. albhoirtus in order to avoid the urbanization of the yellow fever of the
forests and to control dengue; pest control; filariasis bancrofti control;
and finally coordination of the program to control zoonoses in urban areas,
particularly rabies and kalazar.
The most common pesticides used by SUCAM for Malaria are:
Product              Formulation                   Program
1.   DDT             Powder/humidifiable 75%         Malaria-Leishmaniasis
2.   DDT             Technical degree 98-100%        Malaria-Leishmaniasis
3.   Deltametrina   Emuls. conc. 2.5%                Malaria
4.   Deltametrina   Powder/hum. 5,0%                 Malaria
5.   Fenitrotion    ULV-GT 95%                       Malaris/Aedes/Culex
6.   Malathion       Emulsionable concentrate        Yellow Fever/Dengue/Kalazar
7.   Malathion       ULV-300-1000 ml/ha              Malaria/Yellow Fever/Dengue/
Kalazar
8.   Temefos         Granulated 1% (lppm)            Larvicide/Aedes/Yellow Fever/
Dengue
The use of insecticides in a program has also favorable effects in
others.  For instance, the increase in control activities for Aedes aegyDti
and Aedes albooictus contribute to the control of Leishmaniasis vectors,
thus allowing a change in the work plans and goals of the latter.
Pesticides like chloropyrifos, malathion, diazinon, fenitrothion and
carbamates like carbaryl or propoxur inhibit the cholinesterase; thus it is
essential to control cholinesterase levels in the workers using pesticides.
Ir is also advisable that new workers hired for the application of
pesticides (organophosphorus), carbamates) be tested for Cholinesterase
before starting their work in public health, as frequently they are
originally from agricultural areas where interventions with organophosphorus
pesticides like parathion may have afferted their blood levels of
cholinesterase.  It is also recomAended that SUCAM spraymen be provided with
sufficient water and soap to wash themselves at frequent intervals.
Facilities must be available to enable them to take a bath or shower at the
end of a day's work.



45
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
Main Identified Proble
Stoag  Facilities
Imported pesticides arrive to preselected ports (Belem do Para in the
North, and Paranagua in the South) and are quickly distributed to the
Regional Directorates, and from there to the Districts. Storage facilities
vary from district to district, but in general they do have minimal
conditions for storage. Such conditions should irclude: (i) stand or wood
platform to avoid humidity and allow air circulation; (ii) free space to
allow air circulation over the boxes or barrels; and (iii) some security
elements or padlocks to avoid free access to the public.
Instructions exist, but in general, at a peripheral level of the system
they are not followed. It has been observed in a district, during non-
working hours, that boxes with pesticide have not been kept in the storage.
Handline at Storage Level
Instructions exist and are adequate, if applied with discipline.
Whenever boxes are damaged, but the pesticide is in good condition, it is
repacked. If there is contamination or mixture with the soil, the product
is collected and buried in areas where it could not harm the population or
sources of water.
Acouisition and SuDD1Y
Apparently the system of acquisition and supply of pesticides does not
follow a standard pattern in relation to the packing and labeling of the
product. To illustrate this point:
DDT in powder humidifiable at 75% arrived from Indonesia with labels
written in English in the boxes and in the plastic bags containing
individual packages (670 gr) prepared in the factor.
DDT bought from Italy had Portuguese labels in the boxes, but there
were no individual packages prepared et factor level.
DDT from Jamaica had English labels in the boxes, but the individual
packages in plastic bags had no labels at all.
The sixth edition of the WHO book on specifications for pesticides used
in publish health, 1985, details the content of each label, depending on the
product or its formulation. It is recommended that such label be in the
language of the country where the product is going to be used.



46
ANNEX 1 1
Page 4 of 5
Guidelines and Manuals
Personnel from the National Health Council of the Miiistry of Health
have prepared a manual in Portuguese on Pesticides in Public Health. The
manual is very useful but needs to be reviewed and updatod to include new
products that are being used and also indicate thie risk factors identified
in some products after the manual has been published.
There are no manuals suited to the use of medium level personnel or for
peripheral field workers. The sprayer's manual has not been updated.
Corrections are usually made through circulars for each program, and this is
not functional for an integral training of SUCAK workers.
The Regional Directorates and Technical Divisions at headquarters have
no bibliography on this subject. Spanish being a language easily understood
by high level staff, it is recommended to use material already available in
such language prepared by the Pan American Center of Health and Human
Ecology, Pan American i..alth Organization, Metepec, Mexico. This material
could easily be translated into Portuguese and adapted to SUCAM needs.
Some titles include: 'Risk Prevention in the Use of Pesticides" (1983);
"Pesticides: Risk Prevention in its Use - Training Manual," second edition
(1986); "Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Intoxications by
Pesticides," R. Plestina (Zareb, Yugoslavia), (1986); and "Classification of
Pesticides According to its Dangerousness," WHO (1986).
Trainiuig Courses
SUCAM has sent employees to Panama to attend a course called
"Techniques on Pesticides Utilization, and Equipment Use and Maintenance,"
organized by OPS, the University of Panama, and the Ministry of Health/SNEM.
The last course was in November 1985. SUCAM has also organized local
courses on the same subject, especially in relation with LECO equipment for
the anti Aedes aegy=ti program. However, no courses have been organized for
pesticides handling, and prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
intoxication. In 1985, SUCAM and OPS have contacted UNICAMP/Sao Paulo wi.h
the purpose of preparing some courses on the subject, but it has never been
implemented due to lack of funds. Both the personnel of SUCAM headquarters
and in the Regional Directorates agree on the need to give high priority to
this type of training.
ODtions for Solving Identified Problems
1.   Enter into an agreement with an entity in order to review existing
material and to prepare new material in Portuguese, to be used at
Regional, District and field levels.
2.   Re-training seminars for Inspector Generals would be given by SUCAM
personnel, for groups of about 20 people.



47
ANNEX 1 1
Page 5 of 5
3.   During the process of procurement of material, adopt the technical
specifications of WHO on formulation and packing of pesticides, and on
labeling of boxes and individual packaging in the language of the
country. Each label should include warnings concerning the toxicity of
each product.
4.   Include in SUCAM's rules and regulations, the obligations at each level
to comply with the norms of health risk prevention for the workers and
environmental pollution.
5.   Provide one Lovibond kit to each district for cholinesterase control of
workers, and of members of the comunity where activities are taking
place that would have accidentally been exposed to pesticides used by
the program.
6.   Each district should have an emergency kit for cases of intoxication,
and clear directions on what to do and criteria for referral to higher
levels of care if needed.



48
Duration
Malariology    bele3                3               16              upper
Manaus               3              16              upper
Entomology     Sao Paulo            3               12              upper
Epidemlology   Rio de Janeiro       3               16              upper
Sao Paulo           3               16              upper
Health
Education      Rio de Janeiro       3               16              upper
Teaching
Methods        Sao Paulo            2               16              upper
Health
Administration Rio                  2               16              upper
Subtotal                                           124              upper
Inspector
General        Belem              2.5               20              mid
Endemics
Inspector      Belem                2               24              mid
Porto Velho         2               24              mid
Entomology
Assistant      Belem                2               12              mid
Manaus               2              12              mid
Teaching
(mid-level)    Bele5                2               13             mid
Manaus               2              12              mid
Laboratory
Technician     Porto Velho        1.5               17              mid
Manaus            1.5               14              mid
Belem             1.5               18              mid
Sao Luiz          1.5               22              mid
Cuiaba            1.5               11              mid
P.Nacional        1.5               14              mid
Others         TBA                                1044              mid
Subtotal                                          1235              oid
TOTAL                                             1594



49
13
MAlARA    IDTAPIESAM DowE REISTANCE
Parasite resistance to malaria chemotherapies has been registered
In Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela. Physicians dispenising drugs
for malaria are in large part responsible for the drug resistance observed.
Drugs cannot be used indiscriminately without the serious risk of promoting
parasite resistance to them over time and the length of time an anti-
malarial does not encounter resistance is a matter of how the drug is
introduced and used by those who provide treatment. Resistance of P.
falciparum occurs frequently at lower levels (R-1) allowing effective
treatment with the 4-aminoquinolines.  Several studies (in vivo and in
vitro) have been carried out to analyze the status of current chemotherapy
for P. falciparum in the Amazon region of Brazil. P. falciparum resistance
was observed n vitro with chloroquine, quinine, and mefloquine in sample
strains taken from patients in the Amazon region. Follow up of another
group of patients with P. falciparum infections (from the same region) who
had been treated with sulfadoxine (1,500 mg) and pyrimethamine (75 mg) in
combination (PYR-SO) showed almost all patients had a certain degree of
resistance to the drug. Resistance of P. falciparum to the PYR-SO
combination has been ircreasing, bu~. thre do not as yet appear to be high
levels of resistance to tetracycline or to quinine when used in combination
with PYR-SO.  Other studies show, however, that chloroquine continues to be
important in preventing malaria mortality and morbidity, in spite of the
observed in vitro resistance.  Mefloquine has been tested in Brazil showing
100 percent effectiveness when given in a dosage of 1,000 mg (adult) or when
given in combination with sulfadoxine and pyrimethami-e with a minimum dose
of 500 mg mefloquine, 1000 mg sulfadoxine and 500 mg pirimethamine.
Tolerance to the treatment was good in all groups studied. In addition,
studies carried out by various Brazilian researchers have shown clindamicine
(an antibiotic) to be highly effective with good tolerance in the treatment
of resistant cases of P. falciparum.



50
A number of Brazilian research instLtutions are conductlng or
are planning to conduct research projects on malaria transmission,
treatmnt, or control. Many of these instltutlons are located outside of
the Amazon region. The latter include: (i) the Federal University of XMnas
Gerals/Canter for Development and Regional Planning Studies (CEDEPLAR) in
Belo Horizonte; (LL) the Ouwaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ) in Rio de
Janeiro; (ili) the National School of Public Health (ENSP); (iv) the Sao
Paulo Tropical Medicine Institute (INT); the University of Sao Paulo; (v)
the Sao Paulo Superintendency for EndemLc Disease Control (SUCEN); and (vi)
tne Iniversity of Brasilia/ Tropical Medicine Nucleus.  Research projects
are nilso underway or are being proposed by institutions located within the
Amazon region: (i) the Evandro Chagas Instltute (IEC) in Belem; (ii) the
University of Amazonas/ Institute for Troplcal Medicine in Manaus; (iii) the
National Institute for Amazon Studies (INPA) in Manaus; (iv) the Rondonia
Center for Tropical Medicine (CEMETRON) in Porto Velho; and (v) the
University of Mato Grosso in Cuiaba. SUCAM is also conducting research
projects of its own in Amapa and Para.



51
U- IESTITM  MAEL ACTIONS*ECMAD11
UFIED HEALTH SMMSTL_S (SUDS)
1.        In many areas SUCAM already maintains a close working relationship
and undertakes joint actions with state and municipal health agencies. To
date, such actions have been carried out on an informal basis and as
isolated initiatives. In malaria control, for example, SUCAM has worked
with state and municipal agencies on source reduction projects. It has also
cooperated with municipal institutions and State Secretariats of Health in
the area of treatment and epidemiological surveillance. The relationships
SUCAJ has formed iLth other institutions have been largely successful.
However, the success of some of SUCAM's most important activities, vector
control in particular, has depended on its vertical organization and close
supervision of a highly disciplined workforce.
2.        Under the Unified Health Systems initiative (SUDS) it is
envisioned that states and municipalities would begin to assume a broader
range of responsibilities in public health, including the surveillance and
maintenance of endemic disease control for diseases such as schistosomiasis.
While these activities are being slowly transfered, actual control work will
need to be undertaken by SUCAM for years to come since this can only be a
gradual process; the task is enormous and the present institutional capacity
of state and municipal health authorities varies greatly. In addition,
individual situationq must be carefully assessed before any steps are taken.
Therefore, detailed studies must be conducted and careful planning
elaborated for the gradual transfer of certain responsibilities from SUCAM
to state and municipal governments.
3.          SUCAM already provides training in epidemiological surveillance
to state personnel. In addition, SUCAM is normally the first institution of
government providing health services to the population; in many areas,
particularly in the Amazon region, SUCAM lays the foundations for the future
public health system. In the context of the SUDS, SUCAM will continue and
expand on such activities and will provide essential technical assistance in
planning and program implementation, to state and municipal health agencies
which propose to assume new responsibilities in the area of endemic disease
control.
4.        In general, among all of Brazil's health agencies SUCAM
collaborates most closely witii other development institutions in Brazil.
One of the most valuable contributions are the maps SUCAM produces which are
the most up to date maps of population distribution in Brazil. This is a
particularly important service in frontier areas. Likewise, ',UCAM compiles
the most up to date information on population size, growth, and movement in
the course of its regular activities, even in the most :emote areas of the
country. These data provide essential support not only to agencies of the
health sector but to institutions involved in agricultural development,
settlement schemes, and water resource development, such as the Nationa'
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform and other settlement
agencies, federal and state agricultural extension agencies, regional
development agencies (SUDAM and SUDECO), and others.



52
1.     Dh    athn.  Of the 200,000 Amerindians in Brazil, about 180,000 live in
Amazonia.  At the time of European contact, they numbered an estimated 2 to 5
million.  In this century , however, no less than 87 groups have become extinct
or nearly so. Frontier expansion has hastened their decline and one of the
principal causes of depopulation has been the introduction new diseases by non-
Indians.
2.     Hlth Status.  Health status among Indians varies widelv from area to
area in response to various factors including environmental degradation, access
to health services, and level of acculturation. Agricultural settlement and the
spread of placer mining has often brought devastating epidemics of measles,
malaria, and influenza to many tribal groups. Many Indians still remain
unprotected from these and other diseases including tuberculosis, yellow fever,
and chicken pox. Infant mortality among Amerindian populations in the region may
range from as high as 400 to 700 per thousand. Such estimates are tentative and
based on very limited data. For the most part, accurate statistics on Indian
health do not exist. It is known, however, that the most serious problems are
preventable, being the result of poor hygiene, poor sanitation and inadequate
nutritional intake. Such conditions result directly from post-contact disruption
of traditional cultural adaptations. The most common health problems today are:
i) malaria; ii) tuberculosis; iii) intestinal parasites; iv) acute enteritis; v)
dental caries; vi) diseases of the skin; vii) anemia and malnutrition; and viii)
acute respiratory infections.
3.     Malaria.  Indians have not been spared from the explosive increase in
malaria in the region. For example, the Indiar post of Igarape Riberac recently
reported 90 cases of malaria among a total population of 138 over a period of 12
Months. This high prevalence is due to increasing proximity or contact between
Indians and non-Indian miners, settlers and road construction crews. Furthermore,
malaria deaths appear to be higher among Indians than non-Indians.
4.     Health Services.  Health care for Indians is primarily the responsibility
of FUNAI. However, the system lacks sufficient personnel, training, transport,
equipment and infrastructure. Little attention is given to the integration of
traditional medical practices. Preventive medicine is not sufficiently
emphasized and care at the village level is limited. FUNAI operates 205 village
level health posts in Indian areas and 29 'Casas do Indio" which provide limited
health care and lodging to Indian patients and their families when they must seek
treatment outside of Indian areas. FUNAI is supported by some hospitals at the
regional level and by other agencies of MOH including FSESP, SUCAM, MPAS and
State Secretariats of Health. FUNAI has a system of mobile health teams to visit
village health posts but in many areas these teams function erratically or not at
all. Endemic disease control is carried out by SUCAM (which is the only agency
other than FUNAI making regular visits to these areas), although it is often
hampered by lack of air transport. Over the past year SUCAM has been working
more closely with FUNAI, particularly in the area of in-service training, under a
convenio between the two institutions.



53
COST TABLEsS



BRAZIL
AMAZO BASIN MALARIA CONTROL
PROJECT COST SUIK RT
t(07  '0003                              (USS '0S00
LOCAL     FmIG           p TOTAL        LOCAn LIk                                 -
A.   MALARIA PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROGRAM
1.  VECTOR CONTROL                           6,189.3    3,806.7       9,996.0       49,873.4    30,674.5        80,547.9       38
2.  EPIDEMIOLOGY                             2,272.2       401.0      2,673.2       18,309.6      3,231.1       21,540.7       15
3.  ENTOMOLOGY                                 420.0        74.1        494.1        3,384.5        597.3        3,981.8       is
4.  SANITATION                               1,768.3       312.1      2,080.3       14,246.9      2,514.5       16,763.5       15
5.  COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION                     205.3        36.2        241.5        1,654.1        291.9        1,946.0       1S
6.  ENDEMIC DIS.CONT. INDIAN AREAS             606.7       107.1        213.8        4,889.0        862.8        5,751.8       15
.--- -  ___........    --------        .........    --------      ....._...       ---
SUB-TOTAL MALARIA PREV. & CONT. PROGRAM         11,461.8    4,737.2    16,199.0         92,359.6    38,172.1      130,531.7        29
B.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT PROGRAM
1.  TRAINING                                    967.3       170.7      1,138.0        7,794.7      1,375.5        9,170.3       15
2.  INFORMATION SYSTEMS                        1,040.5    1,130.9      2,171.5        8,384.7      9,113.0       17,497.8        52
3.  SUCAM FACILITIES                            327.7        57.8        385.5        2,640.7        466.0        3,106.7       15
4.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         350.0      :16.4        466.4        2,820.6        937.7        3,758.2       25
   RESEARCH FUND                               337.5        -'.6        397.0        2,719.2        479.9        3,199.0       15
.......    .......      .......       ...... ..   s........       ........
SUB-TOTAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM   3,023.1    1,535.4          4,558.4        24,359.9    12,372.1        36,732.0       34
C.   REPAYMENT OF PPF                                 24.6        87.1        111.7          198.0        701.8          899.6       78
........    .......    --------        ----- - _.. ......          ......... _
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                              14,509.5    6,359.6    20,869.1        116,917.5    51,246.0       168,163.5       s0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                             684.8       432.9     1,117.7         5,518.3      3,488.6        9,006.8       39
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                              1,742.1      849.5      2,591.6        14,037.9     6,845.5       20,883.4        33 a3
TOL P C  C  16,936.4    7,64 2.  ........                         ....7..... 6,0  ..  31
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               16,936.4    7,642.1    24,578.5        136,473.7    61,580.0       19S,051.8       31                O_



BRAZIL
*AKZOO B*SIN MALARIA COUrtOL
PROJECT COUPO  NTS *Y Y TR
TOTALS INCLUDING COUTIEC0CIDS
1990     , 19*1           -1922          itt         19.            TOA
A.   MALARIA PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROCRAM
1.  VECTOR CONTROL                                15,469.8      19,141.9    19,309.8       20,007.6    20,731.1        94,660.2
2.  EPIDEMIOLOGY                                   4,322.2       5,091.4      5,191.3       5,404.2      5,625.7       25,634.9
3.  ENTOMOLOGY                                       778.8         957.9        960.4         999.8      1,040.7        4,7j7.6
4.  SANITATION                                     2,710.4       2,854.1      3,983.4       5,183.1      5,395.6       20,l76.7
5.  COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION                           430.4         453.2        474.5         493.9        514.2        2,366.1
6.  ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL INDIAN AREAS             587.2         938.0      1,692.6       1,772.5      1,845.1        6,635.4
........  __---- ___.._    ........      ........    .. _.__ _.....  "     _ *_
SUB-TOTAL MALARIA PREVENTION & CONTROL PROGRAM   24,298.8          29,436.6    31,611.9       33,861.0    35,152.5       154,360.9                 Lu
*.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.  TRAINING                                        3,051.6       1,674.7      1,753.2       1,825.0      1,099.9       10,204.4
2.  INFORMATION SYSTEMS                             5,417.5       4,871.8      2,730.0       3,589.9      4,257.4       20,696.5
3.  SUCAM FACILITIES                                1,169.3       1,231.3      1,289.0         ---          ---          3,689.6
4.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              473.0         828.5      1,214.2         902.9        939.9        4,356.6
5.  RESEARCH FUND                                     328.4         691.6      1,085.9         753.6        784.5        3,644.1
_.,._. ,       .. ..._ _    -------       .. ...__ _   ._. _.. _.    ........
SUB-TOTAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM           10,439.8       9,297.9      8,072.3       7,071.4      7,911.7       42,793.1
C.   REPAYMENT OF PPF                                     899.8            -                        ---         ---            899.6
________ --------S____ .__....._. .      ...... ..    ......._.     ......._..
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               35,638.4      38,734.5    39,684.2       40,932.4    43,064.2       198,053.5                 t
O -



BRA2IL
AMAZON ASIN MALARIA COITROL
SU"IARY ACCOUNTS RY TSLA
TOTALS INCLUDING COOTIDEUCIES
1990           991        1992           9l9.        JL
A.   UINVESTENT COSTS
1.  CIVIL WORKS                                    4,487.7       3,905.4      5,240.8       2,96.3       5.456.9       24,287.1
2.  TRANSPORT                                      3,347.6       3,511.9        ---           ---          ---          6,S59.5
3.  EQUIPMENT                                      3,779.1       4,512.8      2,388.4       2,630.7      2,649.0       16,200.0
4.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             292.6         651.7      1,732.7       1,452.7      1,522.4        5,652.1
5.  RESEARCH FUNDS                                   384.4         691.6      1,085.9         753.6        784.5        3,700.0
6.  TRAINING                                       2,732.0       1,356.9      1,351.0       1,413.0      1,495.5        8,348.4
7.  ISCELLANEOCS                                    351.4         419.5        357.7         688.1        696.S        2,515.5
8.  PREPARATION                                      899.8         ---          ---           ---          ---            899.0
..._.....    .........  ............   --------- ........  __.. __............ ________
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                       16,274.6       15,049.8    12,156.5       12,134.4    12,647.1       66,462.4
D.   RECURRENT COSTS
1.  SUPPLIES                                        6,582.4       7,098.0    7,537.7         7,986.3      8,466.0       37,692.5
2.  SALARIES                                          388.8         287.4       155.0          123.4        126.5        1,0S3.0
3.  FIELD EXPENDITURES                              8,912.2      12,409.7   15,509.6        16,051.6    16,612.9        69,496.0
4.  OPERATION S MAINTENANCE                         3,480.4       3,889.5    4,325.4         4,636.8      4,987.1       21,319.S
.. ._.____._._  ...... I.    ........    ........  _ . ...._* *_.--- *--- a
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                         19,363.8       23,684.6   27,527.7        28,798.0    30,217.1       129,591.4
. ___..........  .. __ .......... . _______-___   .............._____....._.-
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           35,638.4       38,734.5   39,684.2        40,932.4    43,064.2       198.053.8
gol
O -



57
ANNEX 8
MAI
A        HAZUBASIN LZ  COI, P
SUCAX - BUDGET   MEPENDITURES 1987 - 89
1987                  1988                  1989
(millions)            (millions)            (millions)
CzS      USS          CzS       USS         CzS       USS
SUCAM
Total Expenditure    2,801    202.4         19,281    231.2        56,424    317.0
of which:
Malaria Control           967     69,9        3,934      47.2      15,955      89.6
% of SUCAM total:       34.5      34.5         20.4      20.4        28.3      28.3
Ministry of Health
Total Expenditure   13,796    996.8          75,769    908.5    236,268  1,327.3
SUCAM as % of
Ministry total:         20.3      20.3         25.4      25.4        23.9      23.9
Sources: 1987/88 Lei Orcamentaria; 1989 Projeto de Lei Orcamentaria
Notes: (i) Exchange rates used were officially estimated "dolar
orcamentario": 1987 (CZ$13.84); 1988 - (Cz$83.40; 1989 - (Cz$178.00); (ii)
FINSOCIAL is the principal source of SUCAM funding; and (iii) there is
currently a budget amendment (No. 1460-1) before Congress proposing to add a
further Cz$8.6 million to the Malaria Control Program for 1989.



58
(TO DR RIPOTID AISUALLY)
1.   Anr,..al Parasite Incidence by State
2.   Annual Parasite Incidence for the 30 municipalities of highest
incidence
3.   For each State:
Number of blood slides collected
Number of positive blood slides analysed
Number of households visited
Number of houses sprayed
Number of dwellings protected with impregnated curtains
4.   Number of in-service training courses provided by category of personnel
5.   List of locations for, and specifications of, environmental sanitation
and source reduction works



59
A=20
MAZIL
AMAZON8 BASIN MAARIA CONTROL PROJECT
KSTTATK  SHDLOF DISUUSDENTS
IBRD                  Annual                Cumulative
Fiscal Year           Disbursement          Disbursements
and Semester          (US$ millions)        US$
FY 90:
First (1)         8.5                   8.5        8
Second          10.4                   18.9       18
FY 91:
First             9.5                  28.4       29
Second          10.3                   38.7       39
FY 92:
First            9.0                   47.7       48
Second          10.1                   57.8       58
FY 93:
First           10.2                   68.0       68
Second          10.3                   78.3       79
FY 94:
First           10.3                   88.6       89
Second           9.2                   97.8       99
FY 95:
First (2)         1.2                  99.0      100
(1) Special Account deposit of US$6.0 million
(2) Project Completion date is December 31, 1994, Project Closing Date
is June 30, 1995.



ANR!X 21
60
WCAM OROATON CHART
mmO~ OSWK=Oftz ESTUIF UNOAION
Cm   S N E             OF |      PA nEAN CAM  EAroNS
X, IM             PEnaoL           FWA| l
...." ~  ~      ~      Oim              DkimM
F=MgR  OOWAODO C14UZ FOT   FOUNDATf
SUCAM * sUTEMCY FOR P@UC HE&TH CASlAK
PSE* PWUC H4LTH SERVES OMATION
coPLAN- PLAWU  COOOlATION UNT
DIM - OUPANrENT OF IEN:OC DISEASE CONTROL
COW - OCOOSiATION UIT  R PROECTS MANAEMNT
EKM43n



ANNEX 2 2
61
PROECT ORGANWATION CHAR
m~~~~x
XCOGEP       rTECHNICAL|
COPLN-PRECT l           -                                   ADVISORY  I
I I                           t~~~~~~~~~~~MAN~WGRHItrOMMnrrpF
DEA  WR                 DEPARTMENT                     D  EPARTMENT              DEPIANCIN3N    l
-ChOg D~-  r;e Division                                    RevtIn olato Div.      t Bud9g1 O#rsion
- ScI4o _nsi Dbbbn        - Met*  Supp.Dvilon               L"ga DOswn                 Financing Dhision
- L'iuhms Dkivion         - Comnwnleons Dulvon
Tomi Division
REGIONAL DIRECTORATES
EKNW43M8S



62
Pag 1 of 3
COLP
SKLRKrTKD AcICROUN  DOCUNDIS AVIAlKIN PRCOJRCT FILK
1.   Programa Controle da Malaria na Bacia Amazonica (project
proposal), COGEP/SUCAM/MOH, August 1988
2.   Projeto de Atencao a Saude das Comunidades Indigenas da Amazonia
Legal, FUNAI/SUCAM, September 1988
3.   Prevalen&cia * Controls da Malaria, A. Cruz Matques, SUCAM, March
1988
4.   Ur Estudo sobre a Dispersao de Casos do Malaria no Brasil, A. Cruz
Marques, SUCAM, 1987
5.   Principais Situacoes de Malaria na Amazonia Brasileira, A. Cruz
Marques, (with English version: Main Malaria Situations in the
Brazilian Amazon Region) 1988
6.   Present Role and Prospects of SUCAh in the Control of Endemics in
Brazil, Lelio Bringel Calheiros and A. Cruz Marques, SUCAM, 1988
7.   Situacao Atual da Malaria no Brasil, A. ',ruz Marques, November
1986
8.   Sintese Historica do 'ombate a Malaria no 'rasil e Situacao Atual.
Evolucao da Luta Antipaludica em Rondonia, ,.. Cruz Marques, SUCAM,
May 1986
9.   Reuniao de Belem (Para), 14-22 January 1987 (notes on meeting of
SUCAM Regional Directors of Amazonia)
10. Recent Migration in the Legal Amazon Region of Brazil, John
Wilson (consultant), World Bank, 1987
11. SUCAM: the Implementing Organization (First Draft), Glynn
Cochrane (consultant), World Bank, November 1983
12. Malaria and its Anopheline Vectors in the Amazon Region of
Brazil, Chris Schofield (consultant), World Bank, 1986
13.  Consulta Tecnica Regional de Expertos en Control de la Malaria,
PAHO/WHO, June 1986
14. Malaria Mortality in Brazil - 1977-1982, Jose T. Fiusa Lima,
University of Brasilia, 1988



63
AM=NE 23
Page 2 of 3
15. Malaria Studies and Control in Brazil, Leonidas M. Deane,
FIOCRUZ, 1988
16. Relatorio sobre Pesquisa Aplicada em Malaria, Wilson D. Alecrim,
SUCAM/PAHO, March 1988
17. Educacao em Saude e Mobilizacao Comunitaria, Maria Auxiliadora
Bessa Barroso, SUCAM/PAHO, January 1988
18. Relatorio de Consuitoria na Area de Recursos Humanos, Geysa de
Freitas Mendonca, SUCAM/PAHO, March 1988
19. Consultoria de Administracao Sanitaria, Antonio H. Menezes,
SUCAM/PAHO, July-August 1988
20. Relatorio Preliminar da Consultoria em Demografia e Sociologia,
Donald e Diana Sawyer, SUCAM/PAHO, February 1988
21. Malaria on the Amazon Frontier: Economic and Social Aspects of
Transmission and Control, Sawyer and Sawyer, Federal University of
Minas Gerais/CEDEPLAR, March 1987
22. Colonizacao, Malaria e Interacoes; Fatores socio-economico e
demograficos da transmissao da malaria numa area de fronteira,
Rogelio Castilla and Diana Sawyer, Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais/CEDEPIAR, 1988
23. Notas sobre Diferenciais Comparativos da Prevalencia de Malaria em
Machadinho-Ariquemes nos Anos de 1985 e 1987, Diana Sawyer,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais/CEDEPIAR, March 1988
24.  Economic ane Social Consequences of Changing Patterns of Malaria
in New Colonization Projects in Brazil, Donald R. Sawyer, Federal
University of Minas Gerais/CEDEPLAR, October 1987
25. Jornada de Malariologia. Projeto Saude/POLONOROESTE. 26 a 28 Maio
1986.
26. Relatorio de Consultoria sobre Entomologia de Malaria, Wanderli
Ped-o Tadei, SUCAM/PAHO, March 1988
27.  Estudio sobre la lucha antivectorial para control de malaria en la
Amazonia, Victor A. Valenzuela P., SUCAM/PAHO, January - March
1988
28. Relatorio [sobre operacoes de campo], Francisco Oliveira Ferro,
SUCAM/PAHO, March 1988



64
Amu"
Page 3 of 3
29. Flano Diretor de Informatica, SUCAM, 1988
30.  Recomendacoes ao Banco Mundial sobre o Control. da Malaria en
Areas Indigenas da Amazonia, Joan Paulo Botelho Vier& Filho,
Escola Paulista de Medicina, March 1988
31. Proposta para o Plano de Saude a ser Implantado no Parque
Indigena in Xingu, Escola Paulista de Medicina/Departasento de
Medicina Preventiva, July 1987
32. Convenio no. 009/87, between Ministry of Health/Superintendevacy
- for Public Health Campaigns and Ministry of the Interior/National
Indian Foundation (Objectives: Prevention, Control and Combat of
Endemic Diseases in Indian Areas) (translation), dated October 23,
1987
33.  Convenio no. 39/87, between Hinistry of Health and Ministry of the
Interior establishing a national program for indigenous health,
dated 1987
34.  Diariu Oficial, publication of Portaria No. 935 of 20 October 1988
regarding organization and norms for functioning of the
Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Projetos (COGEP) of SUCAM, and of
Portaria No. 936 of 20 October 1988



IORD 213U
(V  E  N  E b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A O    / QNy BASIN  AOLA                                                 ,1 PROJECT
C O L O M B I A g  t   BOVI*    % \  _<__{   \                                               MALARIA COI ',O  'OGIRAM
qI:OR^IjUA *            (_    ~~~~~~AMAPA.t                               CAMPAIGN PHASES
{   q     .   .          A    Nbs~moapa,^
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~-Xz/$>' -                                                     vt-  }!-/-{tDiuted  f'ortaheza
St!- i A  M ,A  Z Q   <   SE    / '9  P ~ A   R  A  lX  lARANHAOrssinwatCEARA /R101,ANDE DO NORTE
R S --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Na/!/\J\t! i *Oal
{     _   0   , '   *   .   <'                        -             <    ' s  q          t I A  U  i    fw ~~~~~~~~~~~~ > P  NiB c o Jo6o`soa       |
_A C a t <s_ Velho / - ~~~* - - -fji E { S . vPERNA                                                                        MBUO  Rc
vo                                                           'B                     A             A       < Arcl
P  E  R  U          \                                                 M     A    T   O                                         B,   A    H FI,    AeSrre
! _ / G R O S S O G ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GO  l  I                                              S*Salvador
t   \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                      w t                                  O: RAILIa uv\
(   B  O   L  I V  I A                                                 oi6mo GOOI-     
<   /   ~~ OUborloroSo   Gowern oor   zS   ,   ~~Co avelos
V             {                             CampoGronde }  -   _  _  h                  * ATO  GROSS  /"ESPIRITO SANTO
?         /                 i       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DO  SUL  . 1,1 *o   Rlibt          Horizortew   oubro
-20    !  j_-_ !-<zU                            l_  ^    v   / SAY UPAULO sJZSOO-                                                                                  0
CH  I LE )     '                     \ _   J                 X S&O tauloe   ,,  '       Rea rJe Joneara~~U
>   'te ^ fu Bs s sta ewi4s               X   Sonto Morirn~~~~~~~~~~~ltd-  W,                            JoneiroCpio
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" c    Ph.as oe  Bqj\Priority  Rive
j                                                                                                        n4 '                                       Ud  Srvteillonce Cbr>URUGUA   0
'L -1                                                                                        '.)  .r.. S    0. 5 0 Tj ^ubaRrc, 



IBRD 21337
_ <     ;                                        i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V E N E Z U E L sA                        GUYANA  
r 2 . x * . W A ,, va*.wi. 1* vM ( S U R I N AM E (< F R ffi A t / o n t /  c     I N A    E                                               F R
,JA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                   tlnt.
I~~~~GJ NA
'_,?t^s  ~B            R A 7  l 1.                   COLOMBIA  /                                                   4
< _ t - . 3\ .......... ~...e,!' l<z, 0...........   t,irf        c e  o  n
AMERICA                                                                                                                                                                      PA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
- 'to -  _-,!     .rh)F     ..ii- 
-  I Ah~~4Ct.               , .                          \ .0 * 5 *EN                                                            O M- 9               .  7,
7M,   It-7 .     1A7                       .N         AREAS                                                                                                                Y
R .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       aARA                                                           Z
te Boundaries                                  o.,,X    \c .' A  A  I             A                                                                  .            CNA _
,,,,,,, ic ,fi,-           -  Inen to a  B,nare                                   v                                                      --, ,     .'     '         A-4 Q                   '"          '                   - ' 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                        O                                 n i'      *~c               ;  c   *   -  , :.   \  , ,.             , ,  O               /   \     2^t 
; n/ * ' / ) / t ' ffi * >c <t;-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R                                                                                           A  
V.-                              i. .RA
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                             
AMERINDIAN AREAS                                                                      '        'B< j0                                                                                               A H I A 
|                              ' ~~~~~~~~~~Amerindian Areas (1986)                                                                          0 GR l     (     S       ;?       f                                        x 
Legral Amazonia' Boundory\                                                                                     j            ..o-J                         '     )            7           VtZ7 
Main Paved Roads  0,_*-a /'^ .1  l    ,
-Unpaved Roads                                                                                                                    <                                                           A
State Boundarires                              ,OIFFR ,      lc    200   3C,   4- s                                    O                i    \9    t7    >F                          C  (A  
--Internatonl  lloundaries v;.,,,; ;\</l,/>1/
i ess t . A S .. 7 C j S iss rv . s 7;/ - 7-c j oeoe / ANUA;w 1989~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUA~ 98



