Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16482
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Loan 3072-BR
April 10, 1997
Social and Human Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1997)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$ 1.00     =  US$ 1.01
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
API             Annual Parasitic Incidence
CODEPRO         Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Proj etos
Project Management Coordination Unit
COGEP           Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Projetos
Project Management Coordination Unit
DALY            Disability-Adjusted Life Years
FIOCRUZ         Funda,ao Instituto Oswaldo Cruz
Oswaldo Cruz Institute Foundation
FNS             Funda,co Nacional de Saide
National Health Foundation
FSESP           Funda,co Servi,os de Saude PuIblica
Public Health Services Foundation
GIS             Geographical Information System
IBAM            Instituto Brasileiro de Administra,co Municipal
Brazilian Institute for Municipal Administration
IEC             Information, Education, and Communication
MOH             Ministry of Health
MPAS            Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social
Ministry of Social Security and Welfare
NGO             Non-Government Organization
PAHO            Pan America Health Organization
SES             Secretaria Estadual de Sauide
State Health Secretariat
SUCAM           Superintendencia para Campanhas de Saude Publica
Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns
SUS             Sistema Unico de Saude
Single Health System
Vice President            Shahid Javed Burki
Director                 Gobind T. Nankani
Country Sector Leader     Alain Colliou
Task Manager              Alexandre Abrantes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 3072-BR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................................i
PROJECT  HIGHLIGHTS .........................................................                                       ii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .........................................................                                      iv
PART I: DETAILED FINDINGS AND LESSONS
A.        Background ..............................................1
B.        Project Objectives ..............................................                               3
C.        Project Implementation .............................................                            5
D.        Project Sustainability .............................................                            9
E.        Performance ..............................................                                      10
F.        Assessment of Outcomes ..............................................                           13
G.        Future Operations ..............................................                                15
H.        Key Lessons Learned ..............................................                              16
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..........................................................                  18
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................................   19
Table 3:  Project Timetable .......................                    ...................................   20
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..........                                ........ 20
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................                       ....................  21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................... ................  22
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ..........................................................              30
Table 8a: Project Costs .31
Table 8b: Project Financing .31
Table 9: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis .31
Table 10: Cost-Benefit Analysis .32
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants .33
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................. 34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual ........................................ 34
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................                 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 3072-BR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Amazon Basin Malaria Control
Project in Brazil. Loan 3072-BR in the amount of US$99.0 million equivalent was originally
approved on April 21, 1989 and made effective on September 20, 1989. In December 1991,
US$16.1 million and in December 1994, US$10 million were canceled from the original loan
amount; thus the revised loan amount was US$72.9 million.
The ICR was prepared by Alexandre Abrantes (Senior Public Health Specialist, LASHD), in
collaboration with Claudia Rosenthal and Dariush Akhavan (consultants), James Cercone
(consultant), Brenda C. Enuton (Operations Analyst, LASHD), and Pamela Glass (Editor). It
was reviewed by Alain Colliou (Country Sector Leader, LAI) and Orville Grimes (Projects
Adviser, LA 1). The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final completion mission, on July 10,
1996. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower provided reports and other
materials and contributed insights through interviews.






ii
BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 3072-BR
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Objective: Control the spread of malaria in the Amazon Basin - where it had reached
epidemic proportions - by helping the Brazilian Government improve the delivery of health care
services to the sick, and more effectively eliminate mosquitoes that carry the parasite.
Cost: US$72.9 million financed by the Bank (22 percent of the total program cost of US$602
million)
Year started: 1989; finished June 30, 1996.
Achievements: The project was highly successful in three main areas:
1. Controlling the disease: Greatly reduced the deaths caused by malaria and the
severity and occurrence of the disease. The project did this by radically refocusing malaria
control efforts in the Amazon. The traditional approach of eradicating mosquitoes was replaced
with a strategy that emphasized early diagnosis and immediate treatment of the disease, coupled
with targeting insecticides to infected areas. The result: cases of severe malaria dropped 13
percent, while malaria deaths were down 51 percent from what would have been expected had
the epidemic gone unchecked. The number of deaths caused by infectious diseases which were
ravaging the Amazon's 200,000 Indians also dropped sharply.
2. Training local personnelfor long-term malaria control: The project helped the
Brazilian Government more effectively oversee its malaria control efforts by training thousands



iii
of state and local personnel in things like early diagnosis and treatment of the disease, the
application of pesticides, and other areas. This created a strong cadre of specialized people who
can keep control efforts going long after the project has finished. The project also set up a new
system of accountability, gave more responsibilities to local and state governments, and allowed,
for the first time, non-government groups to administer medicine.
3. Keeping the project cost-effective: At US$67 per DALY saved, the project was
highly cost-effective. This comes from (1) improved epidemiological surveillance, diagnosis and
treatment (48 percent of impact); (2) improved prevention (42 percent); and (3) reduction in the
proportion of severe malaria infections (10 percent). The project saved millions in treatment
costs due to the reduction in the number of malaria cases, and saved much more if one accounts
for the economic value of the life-years saved. Project benefits outweighed the investment costs
by 1.3 to 1. Project benefits will pay back the investment in just seven years.
Future directions: This project has set the stage for a smooth and effective start for future
communicable disease control projects. With better-trained health care providers and a more
efficient management structure in place, future health operations in Brazil should be
implemented with fewer obstacles and also more quickly. New Bank-financed projects should
continue the trend started in this one to further decentralize health care activities of the Brazilian
Government, so that local communities have a greater role in keeping their citizens healthy.



iv
BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 3072-BR
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction:   For years, malaria was an indiscriminate killer in the Amazon region, taking
the lives of thousands of men, women and children. Efforts to control the disease had focused on
wiping out the epidemic level, infecting 40,000 people more than the year before. The disease
had taken both a financial and a social toll, killing large numbers of Amazon residents, and
costing up millions of dollars in medical bills for the Brazilian Government. There was also a
loss to the economy, as thousands of young workers died in the prime of their productive years.
The biggest reason for the increase in the disease was the migration of people into the
Amazon who were poorly prepared for the hardships and poverty of the area. They were largely
landless families, mostly from the southeastern states of Parana and a few northeastern states,
looking for jobs in agriculture and mining. With them they brought malaria, and they
unwittingly passed it onto the local population. Particularly hard hit were the native Indians, who
had never been exposed to the disease before. In one village in the state of Roraima, for
example, one-third of the population of 80 residents was wiped out by the disease in 1993.
Another contributing factor was the migration within the Amazon region, as people infected with
the disease - mostly miners (garimpeiros) who moved frequently from job to job - took it to other
areas that had not been exposed. This situation posed a problem for health programs because the
relatively stable population being targeted was not the same over time.
The lowland tropical forest in the Amazon Basin covers over 5 million km2, and in 1989
was home to some 16 million people. Nine states make up the Amazon: Rondonia, Acre,
Amazonas, Roraima, Para, Amapa, western Maranhao, Mato Grosso and Tocantins. Most of the



v
malaria cases were concentrated in Rondonia and Maranhao - in towns that were either new
settlements, mining towns, or localities near these settlements.
In 1989, the Government of Brazil asked for the Bank's help in addressing malaria
infestation in the Amazon area. The Bank was familiar with such projects, as the health sector
had made control of endemic diseases a priority. The Bank had already financed a project to
control endemic diseases in northeastern Brazil (Northeast Endemic Disease Control, Ln. 2931-
BR). This time, the Brazilian government wanted to strengthen and expand its control efforts in
the field and develop a successful management program within SUCAM (Superintendencia para
Campanhas de Saude Publica), the federal agency that oversees endemic disease control.
SUCAM was represented in all states of Brazil and employed more than 40,000 workers. The
agency was known for its strong staff and line organization, good record in implementing control
program, and ability to keep programs going in remote areas of the country.
Project Objectives:    As originally conceived, the project's objectives were to bring the
malaria outbreak under control, reduce the risk of it spreading into uninfected areas, strengthen
operations at SUCAM, and kill malaria-carrying mosquitoes. This was to be done by eradicating
mosquitoes, tracking and treating the disease, training staff at SUCAM, and implementing
special health programs for native Indians.
Implementation experience and results:  The project however got off to turbulent start,
due to political and institutional instability. Management was poor during the early years, and
SUCAM was eventually dissolved and folded into another federal agency. This happened at the
time of the Collor government, under which there were four Ministers of Health and six different
project managers. The situation greatly improved in 1992, when the Bank and the Borrower
agreed to a radical reorientation of the project. The strategy was to move away from mosquito
eradication and untargeted application of pesticides, to a focus on diagnosing and treating
malaria, and targeting the application of pesticides to high-risk areas. In short, the project began
to put people first, mosquitoes second. From 1993 onward, management of the program became
more stable and showed excellent results: mortality from malaria went down, while local control
over disease control programs increased.



vi
The project was able to demonstrate that people who contract malaria do not have
to die from it. The Malaria Program preventive activities saved about 3 million years of
life (DALYs). In 1996, the number of sicknesses from malaria was 45 percent lower than
what it would have been if the epidemic had gone unchecked. Improved diagnosis and
treatment helped reduce the severity and fatality of disease, saving 5.7 million years of
life (DALYs). The program saved about US$670 million in direct and indirect benefits,
or 1.3 times the program investment costs. These results correspond to a Net Present
Value benefit (NPV) of about US$270 million, an Internal Economic Rate of Return
(IERR) of 66%, and a payback of period of seven years. At a cost-effectiveness index of
US$67 per DALY saved, and US$260 per case averted, the Malaria Program and its
activities fall into the category of high cost-effectiveness interventions 1. Twenty two
percent of this impact is attributable to the project. (Tables 9 and 10).
Also important was the creation of a new scheme of management and accountability
for health projects that did not exist before, and the transfer of more power and authority for
health programs to local states and towns. Many towns now have laboratories to make
diagnoses, trained staffs to administer treatments, and specialists who can spray insecticides
on infected areas.  Further, the project introduced management contracts, performance
indicators, monitoring, supervision and evaluation, which are now common practices not
only in the regional offices but also in state and municipal health secretariats.
Sustainability and lessons for future operations:   This new generation of trained
personnel in the field makes it possible that diagnosis and treatment of malaria will continue
after the Bank's involvement has ended. The project's benefits will thus continue for many
years to come, with hopefully fewer people contracting the disease , and those who do get it
experiencing only a short-lived nuisance, as opposed to the risk of death.
"Malaria" by Najera, Lilese and Hammer, in Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries, Oxford Medical
Publications, NY, 1993.



vii
Observed and expected malaria mortality rate. Amazon Basin,
1981-1 996
. . . . . . .   . .   .   .   . . . .
6
0
0
C A 
1981    1983    1985    1987    1989    1991    1993    1995
Years
Observed and expected malaria incidence. Amazon Basin 1980-
1996
4000 
30004
@    /                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Observed
1000t
980   9812   1984   1986   1988   1990   1992   1994   1996
Year



BRAZIL
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan No. 3072-BR)
PART I: DETAILED FINDINGS AND LESSONS
A. BACKGROUND
Malaria was widespread in the Amazon Region. The Malaria Eradication
Programme in Brazil had succeeded, by the late 1970s, in freeing from the malaria risk
the majority of the population of the country. Nevertheless, the Amazon basin, with its
enormous extension and its rapidly growing but dispersed and elusive population,
remained resistant to the antimalarial measures massively applied in accordance with the
traditional campaign strategy. By June 1984, Amazonia accounted for 97% of all the
reported malaria cases in the country, with high specific mortality.
The epidemiological studies of Dr. Agostinho Cruz Marques showed that
malaria was concentrated in relatively few, but rather unstable and inaccessible areas,
made up of new agricultural colonies and open gold mines (garimpos), where malaria was
by far the main health risk for its mostly non-immune population, in their great majority
immigrants from malaria freed areas in the rest of the country; those areas were also
concentrated in a few municipalities. In 1985, two of the nine States of the Legal
Amazon, Rondonia and Para, produced more than 73% of the cases of Amazonia. These
States were also the source of infection of most of the cases identified in the rest of the
country.
The Rondonia Health Project within the Development Program of the
Northwestern Region, 1981-86, although making major contributions to health
development in the region, was unable to contain the rapid deterioration of the malaria
situation due to the explosive uncontrolled migration into the area. This showed the



2
inadequacy of the prevailing anti-malaria strategy for the Amazon. At the time of project
preparation, malaria was still the most pervasive public health problem of the Amazon
region, and was spreading at an alarming pace. By 1989, malaria had reached an epidemic
level, infecting 40,000 people more than the year before. At the end of 1983, there were
280,000 reported cases of the disease, but that number rose to almost half a million four
years later.
In 1987, the API (Annual Parasitic Incidence) was highest in the states of Rondonia
and Maranhao, accounting for 80 percent of the reported cases. In 1986, only 22 out of 458
municipalities of the Amazon region accounted for 60 percent of reported malaria cases.
These municipalities were either areas of new settlements, wildcat mining areas, or were
adjacent to such areas.
At the time of project preparation, three major federal institutions supervised by
the Ministry of Health were responsible for endemic disease control in Brazil: the
Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM), the Public Health Services
Foundation (FSESP), and the Osvaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ). States and
municipalities played a minor role in malaria or other endemic disease control. SUCAM
implemented nationwide programs of prevention, control and surveillance; it was semi-
autonomous and was the lead agency for endemic disease control. It was represented in
each of the 26 states and employed over 40,000 workers. The agency was noted for its
strong staff and line organization, its excellent record in implementing endemic disease
control programs, and, in particular, its ability to sustain programs in remote areas under
difficult conditions.  In 1988, SUCAM  created a Coordination Unit for Project
Management (COGEP) to coordinate Bank-supported projects: the Northeast Endemic
Disease Control (Ln. 2931-BR) and the Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project (Ln 3072-
BR). In 1991, SUCAM and FSESP were closed and their functions transferred to a new
institution: the National Health Foundation (FNS) with headquarters in Brasilia. The FNS
created a special unit, CODEPRO (Coordenadoria de Ger8ncia de Projetos) to manage
Bank-funded projects.



3
Brazil's Constitution of 1988 called for universal health coverage for all citizens.
This Constitution established the principles of a Unified Health System (SUS) which
would publicly finance personalized health services for the entire population, to be
provided through a decentralized network of public and private providers. The SUS was
created in 1990, and state and municipal governments have been progressively gaining
more health care planning and management responsibilities, including those of endemic
disease control.  SUS hospitals and ambulatory networks did not have a tradition of
diagnosing or treating malaria or other endemic diseases. All malaria patients seeking
care in a SUS facility were referred to SUCAM (later NHF) units.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives and Definition. The primary goal of the project was to reduce the
prevalence of malaria in the Amazon region and stop the spread of this and other endemic
diseases to indigenous areas. At first, the project focused on killing mosquitoes which
carried the parasite. But it soon became clear that this approach alone was not enough to
address the problem. The project thus refocused the Program on early diagnosis and
immediate treatment of infected patients and targeting pesticides to high-risk areas.
Specifically, the project's objectives were to: (1) reduce the prevalence of malaria
to a level which no longer constituted a public health problem, and reduce the risk of
malaria reintroduction to areas in which the disease was under control; and, (2) make
SUCAM a stronger and more effective agency in controlling the disease.
Cost and Timing.  At an expected cost of US$99 million, the project became
effective in September 1989, and was to be completed on December 31, 1994, with the
closing date set for June 30, 1995. The closing date was extended once to June 30, 1996.
There were two cancellations from the original loan amount: (i) US$16.1 million, in



4
December 1991, and (ii) US$10 million, in December 1994; thus, the revised amount of
Ln. 3072-BR was US$72.9 million.
Achievement of Objectives. Between 1988 and June 1996, the Malaria Control
Program, which the project supported, reduced the incidence, severity and mortality of
malaria, and strengthened not only the federal agency responsible for endemic disease
control (SUCAM/NHF), but also established significant endemic disease control capacity
in a number of state and municipal health secretariats (i.e., Amazonas, northern Mato
Grosso and Para).
Between 1988 and 1996, the overall incidence of malaria declined from 35 to 31
per 1,000 population. This corresponds to a halt in the epidemic conditions observed at
the time of project preparation, when the average annual increase registered was 40,000
cases of malaria per year. In 1996, the observed malaria incidence was 45 percent lower
than would have been expected if the epidemic had continued unabated.
Reduced incidence and severity of malaria brought about by the Malaria Control
Program resulted in saving a total of 8.7 million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs),
of which 22 percent can be credited to the project. Forty percent of the life-years saved
(DALYs) can be attributed to a drop in the number of deaths caused by malaria, thanks to
improved diagnosis and treatment; 42 percent comes from a reduction in the number of
new cases of malaria per population, due to improved prevention, which included an
effective mosquito control program; and the remaining 10 percent is attributed to a drop
in the number of severe malaria cases caused by Plasmodium falciparum, which causes
the most severe infections.
In the area of institutional development, the project left a network of well-
equipped public health laboratories in all health districts in the Amazon region; a pool of
100 high level malariologists (enough to staff all regional offices); and hundreds of
trained middle level staff, not only in the FNS federal and regional offices, but also in
state and municipal health secretariats. In addition, the project introduced a new



5
management culture and instruments, including management contracts, performance
indicators, monitoring, supervision, and evaluation.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Malaria Control Program.
The project tested two major changes to the traditional the malaria eradication
paradigm. First, the project began to target vector control activities to a limited number of
municipalities, and localities with highest malaria incidence, to control the spread of the
disease, as opposed to the traditional approach of making widespread use of insecticides
to eradicate the disease. The region was stratified on the basis of epidemiological data,
resulting in its division into three main areas of transmission (high, moderate, and low
risk) together with a characterization of a large no-risk area. This division allowed more
efficient targeting of both diagnosis and treatment services, and of vector control
activities.  This conceptual development, developed in collaboration with WHO,
constituted a major contribution, and provided the first large scale empirical basis to the
development of the global malaria control strategy adopted by the WHO Ministerial
Conference on Malaria Control in Amsterdam in 1992.
Second, after 1992, the project tested a shift from the traditional focus on reducing
malaria incidence through vector control, to reducing the severity of the disease through
early diagnosis and effective treatment of patients. Hospitals and ambulatory centers
were equipped and staff were trained to agressively diagnose and treat malaria. The
lessons learned with this approach are now being used in the India malaria control
program which the Bank supports.
After a slow start the project used the full proceeds of the loan:



6
(a) Vector Control. This subcomponent of the project executed 63 percent of funds,
including application of insecticides in dwellings and fogging of high-risk community
areas. This is a much higher proportion than had been planned, and resulted from the
excessive emphasis given to vector control during the first three years of project
implementation. Up to 1992, before project reorientation, this was the main strategy and
accounted for 94 percent of project costs.
(b) Entomological Surveillance. This subcomponent executed 7 percent of funds, and
included setting up of laboratories, purchase of supplies, and training of technical
personnel. This was more than three times than what had been planned (2 percent). With
the new strategy, widespread insecticide application in areas of high incidence was
replaced by application in selected high-risk communities.  Technical capabilities
installed by the project allowed the Government to develop projects to help control other
endemic diseases transmitted by vectors, mainly the eradication of Dengue in the
country.
(c) Reduction of Sources of Mosquitoes. Reduction of sources of mosquitoes executed
two percent of funds, including civil works for drainage and regulation of water flows in
several larger cities in the Amazon region (Boa Vista, Manaus, Porto Velho, and Rio
Branco). This subcomponent was not developed as had been planned (8 percent). As
described, the original implementing agency -- SUCAM, was discontinued and its
replacement -- FNS, was not able to carry out the amount of work required. Most
drainage and water flow regulation works were made possible through interinstitutional
partnerships with local health secretariats (municipal) and the army, which carried out
many of the works through agreements (convenios) with the Ministry of Health. Many of
the works were seasonal and did not leave behind a permanent structure because of the
lack of adequate urban planning to guide the expansion of the cities in the region.
(d)   Epidemiological Surveillance and Treatment.  About six percent of funds was
devoted to early diagnosis and treatment of malaria patients, which was much less than
the 11 percent estimated during project preparation. Up to 1992, little importance was



7
given to this component. After 1992, it became the main priority and accounted for 10
percent of available resources. Project implementation contributed to the integration of
malaria treatment into the health care services of SUS, and led to a significant increase in
hospital-based treatment of malaria patients as mentioned above. Nevertheless, the
supply of antimalaria medication is still insufficient at the health posts and in other health
care facilities. The focus on this component as priority also led to an increase of 20
percent of the efficiency in parasitoscopic diagnosis.
(e)   Disease Control in Indigenous Populated Areas. This subcomponent was more
active than anticipated during appraisal, and focused on control of malaria and
tuberculosis, on immunizations, sanitation, basic health care, and on training of 750
indigenous community health workers and 610 other health agents working in indigenous
areas, using three percent of project funds. A total of 43 percent of this component was
executed through NGOs. The promotion and prevention activities accelerated after 1993,
and in 1995 the project financed about 43 percent of all activities for indigenous health of
the Ministry of Health. This subcomponent pioneered partnerships with NGOs, which
executed 38 percent of the subcomponent funds. The weak interinstitutional coordination
between FNS and FUNAI (Funda,ao Nacional do Indio), the National  Indian
Foundation, and the latter's dependency on external financial resources, are a concern for
the sustainability of the disease control activities in indigenous areas in the future.
(f) Information, Education, and Communication (IEC). This subcomponent executed
about 1 percent of funds, as had been planned during project preparation. IEC activities
only started in 1993, and in 1995, a mass communication campaign was launched which
motivated state and municipal level authorities to program local initiatives for malaria
control.
Implementation and Major Factors Affecting Institutional Development. The
implementation of this subcomponent was delayed as a result of the health sector reform
initiated at the time of project implementation, as new roles and responsibilities were
being defined within various levels of the health care system, especially those related to



8
the activities of the SUS. Despite the delay, it ended up being one of the most important
project successes because it left a network of well-equipped facilities in the Region,
trained a large pool of high-level malariologists and other middle-level staff, and
introduced a new management culture and instruments, including management contracts,
performance indicators, monitoring, supervision, and evaluation.  The institutional
development component executed 20 percent of funds, as follows:
(a)   Training. The project trained personnel from the FNS in the new strategy and in
the new focus on diagnosis and treatment of patients. The Specialization Course on
Malaria Epidemiology was expanded and produced a pool of 100 malariologists that will
be sustaining the management of malaria control programs. SUS personnel in each of the
states affected by malaria were trained to diagnose and treat malaria-infected people,
which was previously only done by professionals from FNS. The training of health care
services personnel of health secretariats at state and municipal levels contributed to the
decentralization of the control program. An interactive audiovisual program was created
for malaria education to be used in schools.
(b)   Information Systems. This subcomponent was delayed because of government
importation restrictions on electronic equipment. However, information systems were
developed which allow health districts to quickly access epidemiological information
needed for actions at the local level. These information systems and supervision
processes developed by the project not only created a culture of management, but as of
1995 has allowed for feedback of analyzed data to all municipalities in the Amazon
region, in less than 15 days of data collection. The project also developed the GIS
(Geographical Information System), a malaria mapping system, and improved the
mortality statistics in the region.
(c)   Infrastructure.  The local offices, health posts, "unidades mistas," regional and
local laboratories of the FNS were refurbished and better equipped. The car fleet and
boats used for water transportation of the FNS were renewed. The project extended its



9
resources to the state and municipal health secretariats for installation improvements and
acquisition of equipment.
(d)  Operational Research. This subcomponent was initiated only in 1994, when the
adoption of the new strategy made the lack of knowledge of the new approach, at the
local level, evident. The project pioneered in the development of a commitment between
the scientific community and the malaria control services, and the results are highly
satisfactory. From the 60 research proposals presented the project has approved and
financed 30 which are already completed or underway. The project contributed to
operational research capability through the creation of a program of 70 scholarships at the
graduate level that should assure academic betterment of professionals involved in
malaria control.
(e)  Interinstitutional Activities.  This subcomponent executed 8.4 percent of funds to
finance malaria control activities carried out by states, municipalities, NGOs (ex-miners'
association, rubber tappers' association), Army, research institutes, and the IBAM
(Instituto Brasileiro de Administracao Municipal). Initially, 5 percent was planned for
this subcomponent, but the new national health system with its emphasis on
decentralization led to more investment on decentralization of vector-transmitted disease
control activities and on the multisectoral approach to endemic disease control in the
country.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
This project leaves behind a strong base from which Brazil can continue to carry on
its already successful malaria control program. The infrastructure and equipment
established by the project, all the staff of whom were trained by the project and the
experience gained in the fields of management and partnerships should not disappear now
that the Bank's involvement has ended. The introduction of endemic disease control



10
activities among the expenditures reimbursable by the Unified Health System (SUS) will
cover recurrent costs and further ensure sustainability.
. The project put malaria control on the agenda of state and municipal governments,
as well as on the agenda of other key agencies operating in the regions which are
increasingly assuming responsibility for vector-borne disease control. The project trained
hundreds at the state and municipal levels enabling a follow-up of all necessary activities,
and the decentralization of health actions in the region. These benefits were gained in spite
of the fact that the project was implemented at a time of political and macroeconomic
instability, of reduced technical and managerial capabilities, and changing and uncertain
institutional environments. The project also leaves a culture of management and
accountability which did not exist before. Management contracts, performance indicators,
monitoring, supervision and evaluation were introduced by the project and are now
commnon practice not only in the regional offices of FNS but in state and municipal health
secretariats
E. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Borrower performance. Project management was poor during the early years of
project implementation due to frequent changes in Government. In the early 1990s, a series
of political appointees in a volatile political environment almost brought the project to a
halt. During the project's life, there were eight Ministers of Health. These resulted in
further changes at other levels of government, including six project coordinators in 1991
and 1992 alone, halting actions and decisions and thus delaying project implementation.
Also, priorities changed from one administration to another, and commitments made in
prior administrations were not always maintained by others.
In its early stages, project implementation was also slowed by counterpart fund
and procurement problems. Counterpart funds were difficult to secure during the first
part of project implementation, but have been adequate and timely since 1994. The fact



11
that the Bank allowed the use of Special Account funds to be used as advances, together
with matching counterpart funds, facilitated disbursements, because there was no longer a
need for the counterpart funds to cover the full cash flow up to the reimbursement. The
project disbursed the full proceeds of the loan with only small deviations from the
proportions agreed with the Bank for each disbursement category.
International competitive bidding for insecticides and pharmaceuticals was
extremely difficult because the international market is oligopolistic. The interest groups
involved are extremely powerful, and tried to invalidate the bidding procedure in court.
As a result, further large purchases of insecticides, pharmaceuticals, and specialized
equipment were done using limited international bidding, through PAHO. The latter
process was very efficient: prices were very good, and the process was transparent. But it
took longer than six months between the request to purchase and the delivery of the
goods, much longer than both the Borrower and the Bank had anticipated, but still within
the time taken by other UN agencies such as UNICEF. National competitive bidding at
state and municipal levels was more effective than similar bidding at the federal level to
purchase smaller quantities of goods, again because of the interests involved in a large
federal bidding processes, and because the federal level was not able to plan and carry out
procurement and distribution in a timely fashion, resulting in periods of lack of inputs
alternating with others of inefficient stockpiling.
In 1992, project management became competent and stable and from 1993,
showed excellent performance. Some committed governors and mayors took
responsibility for malaria control, developed state- or municipal-based malaria control
programs and allocated local funds to communicable disease control At the federal level,
strong support by the Minister and by the President of the National Health Foundation
between 1993 and 1995 accelerated project implementation.
Bank Performance. The Bank and the Borrower identified and prepared the
project with much care. The staff appraisal document and the respective background
documentation are very complete, including 17 different field studies and the proceedings



12
of a series of tropical medicine and malaria seminars where the problem and the control
strategy were discussed with key experts in the area.
Retrospectively, we can now say that there were two siginficant flaws in terms of
the objectives and targets set for the project. First, it was estimated that the project would
be able to reduce the incidence of malaria by 50 percent using, mostly, a vector control
strategy. Second, there was no clear objective or strategy to reduce the severity of malaria
among those infected. It should be understood that, at the time of project preparation, the
"conventional wisdom" was that it was possible to erradicate malaria through broad-based
vector control. The malaria control paradigm changed in the mid-1980s, towards targeted
vector control, and later towards focusing on patients and the severity of disease, as opposed
to vector control and reducing the number of cases.
At the early stages of project implementation the Bank devoted insufficient time to
project supervision and focused excessively on vector control. Project supervision was
strengthened significantly after 1993, assisting the Borrower in turning the project into a
highly satisfactory performer. From 1993, project supervision emphasized: (a) outcome
indicators (i.e. reduced incidence, reduced mortaltity, reduced Pl. falciparum infections), as
opposed to project outputs (i.e., houses sprayed, blood slides collected) or inputs (i.e.,
procurement and disbursements); (b) diagnosis and treatment in addition to vector control;
(c) shifting the accountability for project performance from the PCU to states and
municipalities; (d) intensive informal supervision through electronic mail with
communications flowing to and from the PCU more than once a week ( the project was one
of the first to have an All-in-1 account at the Bank's Resident Mission, and later switched
to a Brazilian internet server); and (e) flexible interpretation of the Loan Agreement to
adapt to new environmental and political realities during the long period of project
implementation.



13
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Between 1988 and June 1996 the Malaria Control Program prevented 1.9 million
new malaria cases and averted 236,000 deaths, which translates into a total of 8.8 million
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) saved. The program saved about US$670 million
in direct and indirect costs, or 1.3 times the actual program investment costs. These
results correspond to a Net Present Value (NPV) of about US$270 million, an Internal
Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 66%, and a payback of period of seven years '. At a
cost-effectiveness index of US$67 per DALY saved, and US$260 per case averted, the
Malaria Program and its activities fall into the category of high cost-effectiveness
interventions. Twenty two percent of this impact is attributable to the project. (Tables 9
and 10).
As previously stated, 48 percent of the DALYs saved can be attributed to a
reduction of the number of deaths caused by malaria, due to improved diagnosis and
treatment. Improved epidemiological surveillance, diagnosis and treatment reduced the
severity and fatality of malaria, saving 5.7 million DALYs. Between 1988 and 1996, the
malaria mortality rate fell from 6/100,000 in 1988 to 1.8/100,000, and the proportion of
severe infections caused by Pl. Falciparum, decreased from 15/1,000 cases to 10.4/1,000
cases. In 1996, the proportion of severe malaria cases (i.e., caused by Pl. falciparum) was
13 percent lower, and the proportion of malaria cases which resulted in death (i.e., the
fatality rate) was 51 percent lower, than would have been expected if the epidemic had
continued unchecked.
l Direct treatment savings resulting for the reduced number of malaria cases. Indirect savings in terms of the monetary
value of the DALYs saved. Assumptions: (a) the affected population falls in the poorest 80 percent of the
population; (b) the average income of the affected population is US$190; (c) discount rate of 8 percent. Other
indirect savings, i.e., those associated with reduced time and transport costs, with time and costs for family
members who look after patient, were not accounted due to lack of data.



14
The reported decline in the mortality and severity of malaria is the result of three
strategies: (a) SUS hospitals and health center laboratories were equipped to diagnose
malaria, their pharmacies were supplied with antimalarials, and staff were trained to carry
out early diagnoses and treatment of malaria; (b) all severe or borderline malaria cases
were refered to a hospital; and (c) Artisiminin, a natural antimalarial imported from
China, which allows effective treatment of Pl. falciparum even on an ambulatory basis,
was licensed and distributed to NHF and SUS units. The greater emphasis in treatment
can be partially measured through the number of malaria hospitalizations, which
increased from 10,000 in 1988 to 50,000 in 1995. Improved quality of care can be
inferred from the fact that in 1988, 7 percent of PI. falciparum infections were treated in
medical facilities with a fatality of 0.54 percent; while in 1995, 20 percent were treated in
medical facilities with a reduction of 30 percent in fatalities.
Forty two percent of the project's impact on DALYs is attributable to a reduction
in the number of new cases of malaria per capita caused by improved prevention. Vector
control, entomological surveillance and reduction of sources of mosquitoes halted the
malaria epidemic and saved about 3 million DALYs. Although between 1988 and 1996,
the overall incidence of malaria fell only from 35 to 31 per 1,000 population, this
corresponds to a halt in the epidemic conditions at the time of project preparation, when
the average annual increase registered was 40,000 new cases of malaria per year. In
1996, the observed malaria incidence was 45 percent lower than would have been
expected if the epidemic had remained unchecked.
Ten percent of the DALY reduction is attributable to a reduction in the proportion
of severe malaria infections caused by Pl. falciparum. In 1996, the proportion of PI.
falciparum infections was 13 percent lower, and the proportion of malaria cases which
resulted in death (i.e. the fatality rate) was 51 percent lower, than would have been
expected if the epidemic had gone unabated. Part of this improvement is due to better
treatment and the introduction of Artisiminin.



15
In addition to the benefits associated with the number years of life saved and with
the disability days saved, another benefit of the project was an estimated US$44.4 million
in avoided treatment costs, of which US$9.8 million can be attributed to the project,
freeing public funds to spend on other medical needs.
Between 1989 and June 1996, the Malaria Program spent the equivalent of
US$605 million, 22 percent of which was financed by the Project. At US$67 per DALY
saved, the program can be placed among the most cost-effective interventions.
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Environmental and demographic conditions in the Amazon Basin, i.e., the strong
immigration to and within the region, will continue to favor the occurrence of malaria and
other communicable diseases in the area. State and municipal capacity to control malaria
has greatly improved, but is still weak in many places. Some states and municipalities, such
as Amazonas, northern Mato Grosso, and Para, are now able to take more responsibility for
communicable disease control than before, but other states such as Amapa and Roraima will
continue to need strong assistance from the federal level, i.e., from the National Health
Foundation. Bank support for a follow-up communicable disease control operation is thus
justifiable. Such a follow-up operation will probably (a) have broader objectives (i.e.,
include the control of malaria as well as other communicable diseases such as Dengue); (b)
include demand-driven components to finance state and municipal communicable disease
control subprojects; and (c) have an institutional development component to (i) strengthen
the capacity of weaker states and municipalities, and (ii) assist in restructuring the National
Health Foundation, from a federal vertical program organization towards a mostly
regulatory, monitoring and technical assistance agency.
More broadly, conditions for future operations in the health sector are good.
Political, economic, institutional, and managerial conditions have improved significantly,
and the country is much more capable of carrying out social programs with objectivity and



16
efficiency. With better-trained human resources and improved management capability
achieved through this project and other health-related Bank projects, future health
operations in Brazil should be implemented with fewer obstacles and in less time. Future
operations in the health sector, including those in the area of communicable disease control,
should include efforts towards the decentralization and municipalization of health care
activities through the SUS.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Through the experience gained during project implementation the following are the
key lessons learned:
(a) Early diagnosis and immediate treatment of malaria to reduce mortality is a
cost-effective intervention for reducing the burden of malaria. It should be the
centerpiece of any malaria control strategy;
(b) Focused application of insecticides for vector control based on the
epidemiological stratification by municipalities and by community, according to
levels of risk of malaria transmission, offers an efficient and environment-
friendly alternative to traditional widespread insecticide application for vector
eradication;
(c) Management contracts, performance indicators, monitoring, supervision, and
evaluation are crucial to successful project implementation. Active Bank
supervision at state and municipal level, as well as at the federal level,
reinforced the need for decentralized management and accountability;
(d) Competent and stable project management is necessary for continuity of the
project in a changing political environment. In the early 1990s political
appointees in a volatile political environment almost brought the project to a
halt;
(e) Government commitment is key for the project. States with more committed
governors were more successful than others. At the Federal level, strong



17
support by the Minister between 1993 and 1995 accelerated project
implementation.
(f) Training and other forms of institutional strengthening should be implemented
at least at the same pace as investments in civil works and equipment.
(g) Flexible project design and interpretation of the Loan Agreement are necessary
so that projects can be adapted to new environmental and political realities
which may arise during the long period of project implementation.
(h) The Unified Health System can play an important role in endemic disease
control at two levels: first, by reimbursing health promotion and disease
prevention activities carried out by municipalities, states and the National
Health Foundation; and second, by providing early diagnosis and prompt
treatment of malaria and endemic diseases through the public and health care
provider network contracted with the SUS.
(i) UN specialized agencies such as PAHO/WHO and UNDP can offer valuable
technical assistance and facilitate project implementation in the areas of
procurement and contracting.



18
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial  Partial  Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                             E         El             x
Sector policies                  x         O         O              O
Financial objectives            n          O         O              x
Institutional development        x         El                       El
Physical objectives              x                                  E l
Poverty reduction                                    El             x
Gender issues                                                       x
Other social objectives                                             x
Environmental objectives        O          x         OI             [l
Public sector management         x         OI O               
Private sector development      E          O         O              x
B. ProJect Sustainability           Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
X               OI               El
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                      n                    x                  F
Preparation assistance               E                   x                  [
Appraisal                            El                  x                  O
Supervision                          X after'93                             X before '93
D. Borrower Perforrnance        Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                         g                    x                  R
Implementation                       X after'93          X before '93       E
Covenant compliance                  x                  OI                  OL
Operation                                                x                  O
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome   Satisfactoly   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
x            o                               OL



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                                                            Year of
Credit Title                          Purpose                     Approval    Status
Preceding operations:
Loan 2061-BR               To improve the health status of Rond6nia's       1981    Closed
Northwest Region Integrated   increasing population with malaria control, extension  6/30/88
Development Program -      of basic services, training of health workers and
Health                     operational research.
Loan 2448-BR               To improve the Government's ability to address a  1984    Closed
National Health Policy     variety of health needs through strengthening policy      12/31/89
Studies                    formation.
Loan 2447-BR               To improve the health status in five main target areas    1984    Closed
Sao Paulo Basic Health Care   and nine health districts in Greater Sao Paulo and    6/30/92
improve the cost-effectiveness of health services
delivery within Greater Sao Paulo.
Loan 2699-BR               To improve the health status of 3.6 million small  1986    Closed
NE Basic Health I          farmers and other poor peasants living in specific        12/31/95
areas of the states of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio
Grande do Norte, and Piaui.
Loan 2931-BR
NE Endemic Disease Control  To reduce the prevalence of three endemic diseases  1988    Closed
(Chagas disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis)     6/30/96
in the Northeast, to levels where only
epidemiological surveillance are needed to keep
these diseases under control.
Following operations:
NE Basic Health II         To strengthen basic health services in selected low-  1989    Closing
income areas of the Northeast to reinforce               Date
implementation of sectoral reforms, including the        12/31/97
decentralization of financial resources and
administrative authority within the NE states.
AIDS & STD Control         To strengthen AIDS and STD prevention and        1993    Closing
services, and build up institutional capacity for AIDS   Date
and STD control at the Federal and State levels.         6/30/98
Health Sector Reform       To improve the delivery of care under the Unified  1996    Closing
Health System (SUS), which is the sole source of         Date
publicly subsidized care for the poor.                   12/31/00



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned               Actual Date
Identification                      May 1986                  May 1986
Preparation                        April 1987                 April 1987
July 1986              September1986
Appraisal                          August 1988               October 1988
Negotiations                      February 1989             February 1989
Board Presentation                 March 1989                 May 1989
Signing                             June 1989                 June 1989
Effectiveness                       July 1989                August 1989
Midterm Review                         --                     June 1994
Project Completion               December 1994              December 1995
Loan Closing                        June 1995                 June 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY                   90    91    92    93    94    95    96
Appraisal Estimate                  18.9  38.7  57.8  78.3  97.8  99.0
Actual                              17.1  33.1  39.7  45.5  52.0  63.6  72.2
Actual as % of Estimate              90    86    69    58    53    64    992
2 USS26.1 million were cancelled from the original loan amount of US$99 million; the percentage therefore was based
on the revised loan amount of US$72.9 million.



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators               J      Actual Date Accomplished
Development of a computerized information  September 1987
system for the management of epidemiological
and administrative data.
Yearly submission of work program.         First work program received in October
1987.
Hiring of additional staff for malaria control  August 1989
operations in the Amazon Region.
In-service training courses for field workers,  November 1989
including some courses in entomology.
Preparation of convenios with the National  August 1990
Department of Sanitation Works and the
Evandro Chagas Institute.
Establishment of an integrated project     September 1991
management system.
Appointment of a Research Steering Committee  August 1992
for operational research.
Completion of all entomological studies.   August 1993
Appointment of a public health specialist with    August 1993
experience in malariology to each of the
Regional Directorates in Amazonia.
Arrangement for contract staff to be retained by   August 1993
States and Municipalities.                                                    l
Yearly submission of audit reports.        First audit report received in
June 1991 and last audit report in July
1996.
Submission of annual action plans for Indian  First action plan received in September
health activities for each participating State.  1992
Submission of annual malaria control action  First action plans received in September
plans for the States of Para, Rondonia, Mato  1992
Grosso and Amazonas.l
Conduct a series of annual project reviews.  First series began in July 1993.
Mid-term review of the project.           June 1994



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Actual Date
I. Key Operating Indicators in SAR/MOP                       Accomplished
1. Annual parasite incidence by State. (IPA)                     Item I
2. Annual parasite incidence for the 30 municipalities of highest  Item II
incidence.
3. For each State:                                              Item III
Number of blood slides collected.                              (a)
Number of positive blood slides analyzed.                      (b)
Number of houses sprayed.                                       (c)
List of locations for, and specifications of, environmental     IV
sanitation and source of reduction works.
Modified Indicators:
IFA - Annual P1. falciparum Incidence
Annual Mortality Rate in the Amazon Region
Annual Hospitalization Rate for Malaria in the Amazon Region



ANNUAL PARASITE INCIDENCE - IPA IN TH-lE STATES OF
AMAZON BASIN
BRASIL
1900 - 1995
No. Cases/I ,((() 1Po1uln. I io
1 S       .u A         I < I                  ~  PRIOD; 1 980'- 1995                                           PC
STA'i.. ., . '1-IE ....  R- 1                                                                                113
98O~ ''9814, ~1~9.82~ ~99~    ~     ~'j19FLA  A'198   IF' E  ,.f.,, I119         Le P "OJ RV i   Jp, 1O 19iJ ____
AC         21.5  31.71   22.8   35.0  33.90  28.30  32.30   57.4  54.24  38.60  34.20  33.30  28.43  34.92  59.46  79.22
AP        9.94  16.88   26.7   23.7  34.80  34.20  36.10  31.50  38.68  43.20  39.50  31.40  23.02  15.90  38.58  52.21
AM         3.55  5.452   8.38   6.35   5.06   6.38   8.39   8.01   9.79  17.00  13.20  21.90  16.70  24.44  30.14  22.67
MA         5.17  5.522   4.18   4.98   5.44   8.1 8  11.40  11.50   7.76   7.30   6.52   3.81   3.66    3.1   5.54   6.27
MT       18.   12.35   11.0   11.2   7.36   O3.14  11.30  '12.10  14.51  23,80  66.10  72.00  91.92   55.8  4406  2
PA         12.7  14.58   18.7   29.7  31.40  26.50  23.60  25.40  25.63  24.90  20.40   20.1  22.99  24.08  29.15  34.12
RO       344.0  98.05    77.5  125.0 16.00 162.00 159.00 163.00 ( 171.40 129.90  79.60 149.00 |111.69  76.95 -103.64 100.21
RR       242.0  140.3  175.0  175.0 154.00. 143.00  92.00  88.80 109.90 1416.50 162.00 116.00 100.97  62.27  98.71  150.93
TO         3.94  6.018   9.43   l.11;   (3.20 6(.72   G,55   5.'i 4    5.59   4.9()  4.06   4.51   3.62    2.6   2.13   3.69
|  TOTAL  I[  15.31l 14.98ll  15.9jl  21.111__21Ai5l 22.1fflj_23Ai3j 2G.32|| 28.32|| 35.02|| 33.11ll 30.99|| 32.02  20.77l_ 30.103E  30.00
Source: G'I'M/CRS-FNS
n P



Table 6
Item II
24
HIGHEST ANNUAL PARASITE INCIDENCE FOR THE 30 MUNICIPALITIES
OF THE LEGAL AMAZON BASIN IN 1995
Campo Novo de Rondonia            RO            2.381,39
Machadinho f'Oeste                RO              943.87
Candeias do Jamari                RO              873,89
Rio Crespo                       RO               75.07
Xinguara                          PA              715,82
V;la Nova dc Mamor6              RO              605,74
Apiacas                           MT              842,62
Jamari         -                  RO              630.,12
Cumaru do Ncrte                   PA              613.43
Costa Marcues                     RO              612_.86
Alto ParaisC                      RO              601.41
NovO Progr_sso                    PA              583.43
Matup; a_                         MT              519__81
Seringueiras                      RO              505_79
Capixaba                          AC       -      478.14
Monte Necro                      RO               451.93
Caracarai                         RR              430.63
Acu( ndia                         AC              423Q06
Sdo Luis                          RR              414,40
Curion6polis                      PA              409,91
Bonfim                            RR              403,10
Placido de Castro                AC               402!34
Senador Jos- Porfirio             PA              36__,97
Amapari                           AP              356006
Mucajai                           RR              348,14
Peixoto de Azsvedo                MT              292,84
Nova Brasilandia                  MT              291,67
Eldorado do Carajas               PA              288,45
Apui                             AM               259,90
Jacareacanaa                      PA              259,49



NUMBERll OF 111,001) SIDIl)ES EXAMINEI) IN 'I'Ill, STATI'S OFT'1IE-1
AMNA7()N  IIASIN
BIIASIL
?to.Cases/, 000 Population
TATE ||it/1                                                                                             -K99KI PERIOD:  1980 - 199 
AC         37.537    42.654    29.989    42.U140    55.914    51.019    61.693    79.327    87.741    60.244   66.545   70.670   68.500   70.G10    88.594   117.146   S2.366
AP         16.118    19.403    19.478    20.430    24.740    26.070    35.761    27.860    35.344    38.064    36.773   31.960    30.747   25.937    42.492    60.654   40.094  L
AM         92.693   107.104   111.348   107.281    98.047   110.519   106.301   103.323   120.300  162.133   155.197   197.224   138.982  197.383  235.831   225.306   174.762
MA        305.922   312.661   314.590   352.164   384.075  440.486  473.949   360.004   376.326  373.577   400.264  325.985  231.894  216.904  253;113   264.334   168.513
MT         99.502   101.2.035  111.431   115.30    172.80    :39.5sr8    I 7.s5:4  102.1i78   129.40n   104.n0s  .151.0u2   361.344   452.17| 364.014   322.137   225.470   114.043
PA        370.724   399.073   304.187  404.UGG   567.556   553.G90  459.347   496.353  573.912  59s.704   561.623  465.206   522.322  491.664  561.419   647.776  330.191
no        100.149  203.G69   213.443   245.807   433.408   504.02e, .5G1.35S  621.461   83f.302   001.090  629.6s11   506.214  511.049  433.34n  514.755   565.GOr   307.094
lii    |  49.48r.    45.090    49.0of(0   57.01     53.4)25   r,.: 1l0    4: 7'.1U   441.34 410   n 144   7(1.94    118.41    91.093   80.69|  70.304    93.402   133.32z   93.374
I ( 111 tr;tl()4|{7 I1 .|}| t 1 rB,z 4Z 14*,o}X 1.4  Ifi ....__ __114;M.;.  !.7 1r 1  54,7    u1.)  P  7   1 7111 .  71!5.n  12.11
_;T-4 ..                                .9.....2......2 3. ---     .23.
_T_L_  1.i3l.s3E  J11   sJ 105  -1.32.264 !165 iS li)l4n704i   701.0l,w10 9CO 350 .i;l  2.3                                       3. 2  r5 0 2 l2i
OUrcC: GTM/CRS-FNS
96 - January tllrougl August
H aq
tD H
(D
H
w



NUIMIBIEIR Ole MA IARIA CASE4S; IN 'Etil STATES 0" Tlz'l'lIIV, AMA7,()N
IJASIN
IlItASII.
No.Cascs/l,000 Population
'TATE    ~ '~'~" ~I~'~?  *         b,J~J'1l tI'~ ,    WtP S                   1984 - 1996 |
AP        1.731 |3.100   5.139   4.755   7.270 |7.461|  8.219   7.4UI   9.57r  11.156  10.677,  9.093   6 .969   5.020  12.254  17.031   9.5G!
AM        4.447   8 .16G9 |13.152  10.299   8.528  11.198| 15.319  15.233  19.392  34.944  28.479  45.849  36.157  55.422  68.395| 52.602  40.32f  oo
MA       19.141  22.8380  17.90G  21.973  24l.468  37.t809  54GG6| 5GG627  39.233  37.725  34,955  18.781  10.399  16.222  28.588| 32.819  14.90.
M'l      1!; 2111  5'.65]i    5 '.'10()  15.2.0-I  0.00(11   I 2t.032  1!. -ll   Z l,llzl  Z /,/! ilos.l ;1/.  t43.n53 14. 5(13 1!1l.392 IZ9.71   99.00()3  59.0119  20.64
PA       30.023  5Z.45( 7| 71.172 116G.GGG IZl.U3(1 -113.04 '3 105.725 119.120 125.744 127.941 109,73G 102.Z35 129.291 137.135 155.442| 18U5.000  06i.0Sf
- --- - 11 - ----- --- - - -~I-- -  --' -,         I                 I                 El
RO       59.170  59.590  57.03G  00.75Z 151.140  108.920 191.797 2211.9     242  244.1508 174,330 138.472 137.426 101.298  133.821 134.231  11.03t
AM        444781.1.55   1 3.152  10.);   15.952   11.1'8  151    15.(;'I   1-.3_2  34.944  248A07  45.814  23.007  10.20J 24.0542  50574 20.J7(
1TO            | 5.12(   9.2!;  MYtl     6.2 II  G.90I  t; l:l / i. 9(;65   (.2591  5.61/  4.67.3  4.10    3.417   2.551   2.100   3.71C   1.01'
TOTAL  ||1161.1571 U9.1 9||2  .50|| 8G990| G.989|| 38.03|42.27l 4U1.33||5042.55|07 87|546.095 53.0256.7 479.133 551.10G8 561 ,025 275.09'
urce: GTM/CRS-FNS
1996 - Janiary Ilhrotigli August
0D '
3 F



89 ~   ~l99O    1  SPRAYED 110i131''S            9
AC             78.462      49881    52.213    48.728    58.158    23.576    21.074    29.297         361.389
AR            05.906        89.337 5 184    41.2851    98.710         6.763     13.120. 12.440    853.295
RR             26.977       17.923 57.9F2    27.132 617.85            2.57U    15.014      7.118     134.409
RO  358.906    289.561.  178.974~~~~~~~L  15253673                    310       8I4 7.2
TO             7;. 1 'I7    510.2.51    :9. IH  4 v1.I55i  2i. 6 27       4) .640          3.080     240.460
.hinunry.e  1Iu1ougIl Augs6te
13.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
95,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
1-4
-40'



MORBIDITY AND MOIt'I'ALI'I'Y l)UE TO MALARIA
IN T'IlE LEGAL AMAZON BASIN
1988 - 1995
!I FJ-SPOPULA  10N: I NO   F   ; a   1 rip.!{}jrTiX  ;!  ;.,-$MOIrlTAITV
[OILAT1ON ~No ? OF                 .f      J          ~MOUIA  iTO,. 
CAEV4 ~            "CSS                                                 TOTAL
Y'EARt                               . 7j o) tCASES  ;E  No. OF CASES:;FAY1 |NO. 01 I)EATIIS  RATE X  FATALITY
trpi g    -t.(l, ,K,  I ,@te,  t  ,.  itXf ) ,,;t! ' ;-;rf 'S'rF ..i! * !f '4s'toti j'' l:ilt  iP " ..  1  I;.  .~ P:*- ;  10.000  POIj. *,;  I.'},(
1988      17.366      542.558    28,32       276.593      15.93      1040 (c)         5,98          0,38
1989      .18.277     557.787    35,02       264.469      14,47       915 (c)         5,00          0,35
1990      19.260      546.095    33,11       243.622      12,65       841 (c)         4,36          0,34
1991      17.098      533.302    30.99       212.592      12,43       705 (c)         4.12          0.33
1992      17.686      566.278    32,02       237.576      13,43       545 (d)         3,00          0,23
1993      17.897      479.133   ,26,77      171.690       9,59       423 (e)         2,36          0,24
1994      18.307      551.108    30,1(       192.505      10,52       375 (e)         2,01          0,20
1995      1f1.704     561.025    30.00      '196,671      10,62       197 (0          1,03          0,10
IPA: Aiiinali Par asiIc incidImace x 10(00 IMIRIkliOlota
11W'A: I iacidenec or 1'. falcipa rotus x year x 1000 popollnkfalion
IATIAl,ITY: No. of deuthIn/No. P. falciparumo cases x Itl0
SouI-ce: (a) 1988 - 1995: DITEC/SESI-/SUCAM/MS
1992 - 1995: FIBGE/CENEPI/FNS/MS
(b) GTM/SUCAM AND FNS/MS
(c) DATASUS
(d) SESAU, all States; (c) missing AP; (f) missing AP, MT and RO



BRASIL
HOSPITAL ADMISSIONS AND DEATHS BY MALARIA
PERIOD: 1984 - 1994
.    _  r   LEGAL AMAZON BASIN  |prygY@|;  AMAZON OTHER    2.-'i,nilt,ilSl:6.           i 'A' OHER       TOTAL          '
LEGAL              u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'i.I                       OA 
YEAR  ADMISSI0NS| DEAT,IIS %FATALITY ADMISSIONs DEATHS  %FATALITY ADMISSIONSDEATHS %FATALITY
1984                4.591         15              0,33            2115         18                0,85            6.706        33             0,49
1985                4.920        35               0,71            1621         22                1,36            6.541        57             0,57
-1986               6,024        37               0,G61            1979        23                1,16            8.003        60             0,75
1987               12.646         56              0,44            4176         3S                0,84           16.822        91             0.54
1988               1848-1         74            , 0,40            51-18        54                1,0G          23.599        128             0,54
1989               22.814       116               0,51            5246         42               0,80           28.060        158             0,56
-1990              28.456       -141 -,                           28)85        49                1,7l          31.341        190             0,61
1991               43.192       2-14              0,50      ,     2002         25                1,25          45.194       239              0,53
1992               53.540       241               0,45             1792        24                1,34          55.332       265              0,4D
1093               48.627       230               0,4/             I I)        22                1,98           19.737      252              0,51
1994               52.418       210               0,40            1032         17                1,65          53.450       227              0,42
1995                            173                                            21          -                                 194
SOURCE: DATASUS/FNS
(b 
3 H



30
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
1. Prevalence of Malaria in Mato Grosso do Norte. Imunologic and serologic survey. Maria
Sanchez, Sao Paulo Institute of Tropical Medicine
2. New immunologic diagnosis methods to identify Plasmodium in body fluids. Antonio W.
Ferreira, Sao Paulo Institute of Tropical Medicine
3. Plasmodium Sensitivity to antimalarial drugs in Peixoto de Azevedo, using in vitro micro-
techniques. Silvia M. di Santi. Endemic Disease Superintendency of Sao Paulo
4. Risk factors for frontier malaria. Donald R. Sawyer. Society, Population and Nature Institute.
5. Receptivity to malaria in the Belem metropolitan area. Marinete M. P6voa. Evandro Chagas
Institute.
6. Evaluation of the effectiveness of natural insecticides in controlling anophelin mosquitoes.
Benjamin Gilbert. Oswaldo Cruz Foundation and Endemic Disease Superintendency of Sao
Paulo
7. Evaluation intra- and peri-domiciliary blood feeding behavior of the Anopheles darlingi and
other potential malaria vectors in Rondonia. Ricardo L. Oliveira. Oswaldo Cruz Institute.
8. Application of space-time models to malaria surveillance. Flavio F. Nobre. COPETEC
Bioengeneering Program.
9. Buruticupu endemic disease research and control project in Maranhao. Jackson M. Costa.
Federal University of Maranhao.
10. Antigen and antibody identification to control the transmission of malaria through blood
transfusions. Amadeo S. Alquezar. Sao Paulo Blood Center and Prosangue Foundation.
11. Development of Bioinsecticides based on Bacillus sphaericus for biological control. Eloan
S. Pinheiro. Oswaldo Cruz Foundation.
12. Malaria in Manaus: Entomology and transmission dinamics. Wanderly P. Tadei. Amazon
National Research Institute.
13. Rationalization of malaria control data processing in Peixoto de Azevedo. Diana Sawyer.
CEDEPLAR/MG
14. Efficiency of antimalarial distribution posts in remote area malaria control, in Mato Grosso
do Norte. Maria Luisa 0. Cunha, Mato Grosso Federal University.
15. Geographical information systems for malaria control in Rondonia. Gustavo Bretas.
National Health Foundation
16. Clinical, parasitological and malaria risk factor survey among wildcat miners in Mato
Grosso do Norte. Cor J. Fontes. Mato Grosso Federal University.
17. Operations research training for health personnel involved in endemic disease control in the
NE and North regions of Brazil. National Health Foundation and National Council for Science
and Technology Development
18. In vitro and in vivo sensitivity of PI. falciparum to quinin and mefloquin in the Amazon
Basin. Crispim C. Junior. Sao Paulo University.
19. Epidemiologic survey in the Alto Sulimoes River Basin. Maria Margareth Machado.
National Health Foundation.



31
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual (US$M)
Local    Foreign               Local      Foreign
Item                   Costs     Costs      Total      Costs      Costs      Total
A. MalariaPreventionand               92.4       38.1      130.5       60.5       61.7      122.2
Control Programl
B. Institutional Development          24.3       12.4       36.7      12.0        17.8       29.8
Program
C. Repayment of PPF                    0.2        0.7        0.9        0.4        0          0.4
Total Base Costs                      116.9      51.2      168.1      72.9        79.5      152.4
Physical Contingencies                  5.5       3.5         9.0      -           -          -
Price Contingencies                    14.0       6.8        20.8                  -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                136.5      61.5       198.0      72.9       79.5      152.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                 Actual (US$M)
Local     Foreign                   Local      Foreign
Source              Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs        Total
Federal Government            99.0         0.0        99.0       79.5                    79.5
IBRD                          37.5        61.5        99.0                   72.9        72.9
TOTAL                      136.5        61.5       198.0       79.5        72.9       152.4
Table 9: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary. 1989-1996
Malaria Program costs                                                  US$605.1 milllion
Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project costs.                            US$133.7 million
Proportion of the Malaria Program financed by the project                   22.1%
Malaria Program effectiveness
No of malaria cases saved                                                  1.9 million
No of malaria deaths saved                                                  236,000
Proportion due to reduction in the incidence of malaria                     42%
Proportion due to reduction in severity of malaria                          13%
Proportion due to reduction in fatality of malaria                          48%
No of disability adjusted life years (DALYs) saved                         8.8 million
DALYs saved through vector control                                       3.1 million
DALYs saved through early diagnosis and treatment                        5.7 million
Cost-Effectiveness
Costs/DALY saved                                                           US$69
(a) DALY -- Disability adjusted life years



32
Table 10: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary. 1988-1996
(US$ million, 1996)
Total investment                                      513.4
Present value of investment                           399.4
Method One
Direct cost savings                                   48.0
Indirect cost savings                                 897.6
Benefits, present value                               668.7
Net benefit, present value (NPV)                      269.3
Internal economic rate of return (IERR)               66%
Method Two
Direct cost savings                                   48.0
Indirect cost savings                                 956.2
Benefits, present value                               710.2
Net benefit, present value (NPV)                      315.4
Internal economic rate of Return (IERR)               97%
The economic analyis is based on a stream of benefits and costs estimated over the
project implementation period. The main assumptions are:
Method One: (a) population affected by the project falls in the poorest eighty percent of
the population; (b) average income equals six percent of the total output as measured by
GDP, i.e. US$190 for 1995; (c) discount rate of eight percent.
Method Two: (a) average minimum wage constitutes a subsistence income for the
Amazon Region of Brazil and serves as a proxy for the economic value of each disability
adjusted life year (DALY) saved.
There are two reasons for selecting an 8% discount rate, a little lower than would be
appropriate for a private investment project. First , the highly redistributional nature of
the project, demonstrated by a high proportion of the target population in the lowest tiers
of the income distribution. Second, the public goods nature of the investment provides
justification for a discount rate different from the discount rate traditionally assumed for
investments where the output is a private consumption good.
The analysis presented above underestimates the total economic value of the project
given that indirect costs savings, such as the time and transport costs, time costs for
family members who look after the patient and time and money costs of preventive action
taken by households and the community are not considered due to lack of data.



33
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
L.A.    Covenant  Status    Original    Revised
Section    Type             Fulfillment  Fulfillment    Description of Covenant
Date        Date                                       Comments
3.01(a)     5         C                             Carry out project through   Complied with.
FNS, with diligence and
efficiency.
3.01(b)     5         C                             Ensure project manager is   Complied with.
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.01(c)     5         C                             Retain adequate staff at FNS    Complied with.
in States and Municipalities.
Ensure States and Municipal-
ities are reimbursed for
project-related staff costs.
3.02       5        C                              Procurement and contracting    Complied with.
of consultants according to
Bank guidelines.
3.03(a)     10        C                             Complete entomological      Complied with.
studies.
3.03 (b)     5        C                              Submit to the Bank and     Complied with.
Implementation Agency
plans regarding source
reduction sanitation works.
10        10       C                              Execute all sanitation works    Complied with.
according to schedule and
allow the Bank to approve all
contracts.
3.04       5        C                              Maintain a Research Steering   Complied with.
Committee for operational
research, to review/select
projects.
3.04(b)     5         C                             Sign contract with Institute  Complied with.
Evandro Chagas, after
clearing with the Research
Steering Committee.
3.06       5        C                              FNS to appoint a Public     Complied with.
Health Specialist with malaria
experience for each Amazon
Basin Regional Office.
4.01(b)     1         C                             Each year, audit loan       Complied with.
accounts, including those of
the Special Account.
Covenant Types:
I = Acount/audits
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
Present Status: C = Covenant complied with



34
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
N.A.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
Stage                                      FY
Total
86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Preparation     5.2  29.8  37.9  14.4                                                 87.3
Appraisal                         22.2                                                22.2
Negotiations                       8.6                                                 8.6
Supervision                             15.3  3.3  4.9  16.0  10   11.8  7.4          58.7
Midterm                                                        5.7                     15.7
Review
Completion
TOTAL    I  l                                            1 l             IhIZ[_ll_



35
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
*             Rating3
Days    Specialized
Stage of Project     Month    No. of         in     Staff Skills    Impl.      Devt.
Cycle           /Year   Persons    Field   Represente          Status    Objs.   Types of Problems4
d
Identification           5/93        2          8          PH
Preparation              9/86        7          18     PH, EP, M
11/86       2          7          H
9/87        2         15          IT
3/88        2         11          H
Appraisal                10/88        5         14      PH, A/M,
F, IH
PLW**                    8/89        6          5       PH, A/M,
D, F, L, P
Supervision:          I         I
I              8/89        2         7        PH, A/M          I          I
II             3/91        2         14       PH, A/M          1          1
III            10/91        4         11      PH, A/M,         2          1             M, PR
TD
IV              2/92        4         3       PH, A/M,          2         2               M
IC
V              7/92        2          1 1     PH, A/M          2          2               M
VI              7/93        1         12         PH             2         2               PR
VII             12/92       2         12       PH, A/M          2          2             M, P
VIII            12/93        3         11     PI-H/A/M/IC       2          2          A, M, PR, L
IX              6/94        4         11         PH            HS        HS
(Mid-Term Review)
X              2/95        4          12         PH            S          S           M, CF, PR
XI              8/95        3         12         PH             S         S             M, PR
XII             7/96        1         12          PH            H         HS
Completion            I____                                                                        ____
* A = anthropologist/malaria specialist; D= Disbursement specialist; EP = epidemiologist; F = financial
analyst; PH = public health specialist; IC = IEC specialist; IT = information technology specialist;
IH = indian health specialist; L = legal; M = management specialist; P = Procurement specialist; PH = public
health specialist; TD = tropical diseases specialist.
** PLW = Project Launch Workshop
3 Ratings: I /HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems.
4 Types of Problems: A = accounting; CF = counterpart funds; L = legal; M = management;
P = political situation in country; PR = procurement; T = technical.



36
Documents in the Project File
A. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis (by Dariush Akavan)
B. Cost-Benefit Analysis (by James Cercone)



MAP SECTION






B R A Z I L
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
DISPERSION OF MALARIA FROM AMAZONIA
^@;25. 7Areos of Malaria Transm,ss,on                                  *     Stote Capitals
M.grat-on of Molorio Cses                                                             Notional Capital
0 500                I00       15X  -IIOMETERS                                                               A--io Boudory                                                ------  State Boundor,es                                            _AR An Ir, n,,s ocne,n  or,. An,o 0/
c i-,ers                                                                     International Boundor-es                                    Rn.c   , c A  on ,nann,,0       me r,,,   5n   m
0                5X0             IX0 ,MULES                                                                                                                                                                                                   vm7~ cn 1e D rt sK 'ne Lu7Z1d d.nz ,a, t. MPernaNona/ f oance CorDDIeiiOn An   AiiniAA
VENEZUELA   1.  o             (FrcNCn GUANOA                                                                ( VENEZUELA           %  *.     (FRE0CO GUIANA                                                          '*     ( VENEZUELA  )     o   J        (        Ut0tC A GUNA
| ;musurnonr                                                                                                .           . (5UFno NCOL                                                             COLOMBIA *                              SiNOA$E
^Ax niEO,,IMo a_ _ _       > '   AMA7OS            Atlontic    Oceon Atlro~ti    0--                                                                                                                                                                                            Atlantic    Oce-n
ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
k   !8 M A T O  OSSO ~~~~>  A          >PRS105AN1~~       0    NOT                                                                                                        00,405LC m   F ' & e O 5 N0   .                                                      tAntO /0    A.'SU  COOt  AOMt5GE
(I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I A* -W ROcAOOtARAGU             I                                                              ' -, Tf50 F   _  <'_ los/ Newo   t-  c  2   LF   WARAGUAG\.  ,-  - S   Fou  DEI  A CS'  I  --- YTJ                                                   - ---- - ,--
_           10     0P    \O                                                                                                                                  O E R  U  <  O O a _,                                A
u       \ , ,              L001cR                                                                 P E RUA-i,'c'^ -r A F l-l A     A  =  k                                                                                                                                ,    l.S          B A niA      -      i  tP R
BOLIVIA                                                BOLIVIA                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA
j,                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -TEIC          GFNOE , /     9 ; , F10 GR  IAS Gt/ | , E10RG.ANAS   I  O
j  .~-     00 'DO SS-                                                                                                                                                                                         5 - f DOSUL  SA.TO           DO SULC- tS
IAo roIVURUGUA5     4D'.                                                                                                                                                                                                               I 50'r-
P!ZAGA,1 ',RAGUAYI OR,atL(R                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRArUAY'                                 OORAARR
R,-R-..,,                                         a0                                                                                                                                         'I.R,dSAAAe
A R G E N T; N A                                                                         RGENTINA~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ AP-t,,e                                                                                 AqET NA
j,~,~,,,,,MSULt CAOiO                                                                                          fr      .j"Jo~Ae
!URUGU'AY                                                                            l           ~(URUGUAY~                                                                                         I,                      f[URUUA
~~t~~k   TA'  ~~~40'                              00.                           00'                 Tn.                                                                                                                                                                       JANoARl






IBRD 21336
(VENEZUELA                                       L(FRENCH          S0                                     40'
L ISURINAME\GUIANA                                              BRAZIL
C O L O M B I A,-,'                        Boo V,st.?"   7 Y\               ;   /  \              AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
/ -RRIA   Y A57                                 GARIMPO MINING AREAS, NEW SETTLEMENT AREAS,
I                        I@ 21'  /  ,   __\AMAPA  AND MUNICIPALITIES OF HIGHEST MALARIA INCIDENCE
_0,   )      ;      _             g~~~           ~~~/ rl i           npll.o
-0- ~ ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
:            '- /BW                                                                                                                      0 :    ,SXS     /    _
/                                                                           A     :  4  V   E  c
AM           Z< 0    NA                     oo                      Q;  G O  I AS                                 Fari-aIeOaO
/          'usb            ,, KdealC  OC Ohv
z                     -ub.~                    ~          ~ P                           8...~4~AR N A0~  o,,-y    I>0   C  5 A  V
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~RN                            res 8RSiIAi3 r         M
/                                         / eres~~~~~~~~~~~~OInaCEARA  /RlOt-R4NDE DO NORTE
Natal
<  B O  LIV  I A<PARAIBA  Jo ooPessoa
|~~      ~~~ \                                                                          PI-          AOGOS    9  Ueab             -RAUI S   ,. 
J'p,3~ ~~~7                                 -A /Sno1,~          '-                           PERNAMBUTO:  ecl
-':    ' r '~                                                                                  '1                                       eM\   cejompoGrande,3oi Hw   *Belo    /ESPIRITOSANTO
\to                        /               )        DO SUL       J 5=o Jgse d=do    RObDcdo F-eto    Horwtonte    = s ho=  =   ;ALAGOAS
~~~~Gco~~~~~orO  *~~~~~~  -''                                   '~~~~~~~'~~~'    ~ ~ ~ ~       *~Aracalu
PvC H i LE .)      ri~~          *Polls             \                                           B,  A   HoO  Ao"ulo       de  nSERGIPE
P~~~~ E R UJ                                                                                                              I  A pRor,N= b@=gr
En,,0 dsSn'n
~~C~~~~$~~~sjR  ~GO~                                                   Sal~ocdor
Cuiab6                   ~~~~~~~Federal I,
| 0  Lo I    j_ I A                                          =urg GmoMi6ningAreo
t7<~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NRZLm,    A R  G  E NR lp  A                          I S==,?u>s
s3roR>cLrt t 4s=JqVVbt <tz /R~~~~~~'.                     n ,     1 0 U GANE  O   SL9LA o n i oVo l   C o pB ol
DOSi          d eel  0ESPIRITO SANTO
20                                                                 fSc~~~oJ~~,~o~~  R,b~~8oa  En,,o    k      Vttdria 'C  o   Be
41w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D   SU                                                         Hor_one         eTbrL 
2 1v '.\ -T/\                                      /  SAl9Srlv */-,F,PAUL/  f  X   9;    !    KltOMETERSO lOo 200 300npns 400 S00    -' -  3tote 3 O20-
\PARAUGUAY                                   c                    DE JANEIRO               o : 5 -
/       |                                         -      Go-nmpo Minirg Aeo
)                                '     ~~~~~~~~~~~~SANTA CATARINA                         N' ete,n ~o
j SOUTH'  -            (                                              t"            .        a                                     n       f\     Mol/- 1-cid-n- 9
t' BRAZIL             IA                 G    N       TI    ATtVooio                      Cb.,6o
'-,Bnos,lio                                   RIO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRANDE DO0 SUI-e0s                   (    Nati-nI C.pito1
*0'0  5505 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   *~~~~~  sftos  Capitol
is.,.,, s.o.s  .ocns    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~      Por'to Alegre`: -nono                             0   S-eted T-wn
*'n.snenn.cen        U*    Boos                                            -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stote Boondoc-e
A',         Kic',.*.,                                                     ILOWTERES 0    ICC  200  300  400  500
hi'.                                           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MI~~~~~-LES 6    100  200   3 CC  neioinlBone
osi,oi'ns,'iaaSioSwo.                         ~~~~~~~~Rio On-sde
K    RUGUAY   k)36
I  50                Bo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-RI16






IRRD 21337
_ Ja . E_<<,, ..... t - -  .: ..............70*                                                                   A 50  -' l
-'7   ,  ....   I                                 .............   ~~~V   E    N    E   Z  U    E   L  A        GUYANA            /                                                                                                  s
,-=          8        Z B  R A  Z  I                         8  2I  COLOMBIA   /
S O U T H                                            *R   R A
AMER CA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A  
P   E   R  U                 .*TAAAA
rEL~O                                                                                                          Ap  _ |- *  ; GF - \
A),,,,,,',,,SFX,*~e                                           755   05 r0    AQ    50 I                                                    /             AAA.'., 5A\ 
p____ __ 2 / _ t ~~-        .  -   ntera'o a  BoNdarie                                   ILE    _________________________                                   A"    y   i*A**  PA.U p
P  E  R U          j*;h     
t-                   ;,, ~~~~~~~BAZI                                                         M    A                                                         T     0-AS  /    A R       AA 2
AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT                                                                                                                                                         G ;  ,  O GRO   AA S  \
AMERINDIAN AREAS    9'^--.A    '   V   /   1   7   X  +  r  t X A AA 
1 986                                                                                                                              i                     od._2                           | 
*A.-rdi-n A-eo (I 986)                                                                                                                    O5                ItG   - 29  . / Z-       \.    s4
Moin P-vd Roods                                                                                            C      SES                        H                \ \          \       I  5     /,,
Stt B-d.H.IOEIES                                                 0     2040   300    00'\<D                                                                                                         a  
--    ntenotonoB-ud.,-e                                 IILESO50   100 1o50  W0   230  300              \_             _                             ;\ (                     A F>;     
75 70' rS' 1r A~~TOGOSWOSL e7s, ..... d.. iUAY









IMAGING
Report No.:          16482
Type:     ICR



