Page  1
February 6,  1990
His Excellency
Mailson Ferreira da Nobrega
Minister of Finance
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Re:
Loan 3072-BR (Amazon Basin Malaria Control
Project) Amendment
 Dear Mr. Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil 
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) dated June 2, 1989. 
The Bank is pleased to inform you of its agreement to include maintenance of 
buildings and equipment in the definition of incremental operating costs in answer to 
SUCAM's request, received during their visit to the World Bank in December 1989.
Specifically, we propose to amend paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of 
the Proceeds of the Loan) to read as follows:
"(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means (i) payments for field 
workers retained after December 31, 1987, including per them and transport, 
(ii) supervision expenses, (iii) fuel and maintenance expenses for buildings, 
equipment, and vehicles, (iv) transport of pesticides and other supplies, and 
(v) 
other operating costs specifically agreed upon between the Bank and SUCAM.  
All of 
the above costs shall qualify as incremental operating costs to the 
extent 
they are incurred for purposes of the Project."
Additionally, paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 of said Loan Agreement will be 
revised to reflect an increase in the amount of retroactive financing from" $US6.0 
million to $US9.0 million as follows:
"(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $9,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that 
date but after November 1, 1988; and"
Please signify your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form of 
confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.  Because of 
their interest in this matter,
copies of this letter are being sent to the Coordinator of Special Projects (COGEP) of 
SUCAM and to the Secretary of SEAIN.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Director
Country Department I (Brazil)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Confirmed:
Page  2
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Helio Gil Gracindo
Authorized Representative
Date: 
cc:
Dr. Ernani Motta, Coordenador, COGEP/SUCAH
Minister Clodoaldo Hugueney Vilho, Secretario,
SEAIN/S
