Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3072 BR
(Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 2, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3072 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1989, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated  October 
16, 1986 and February 17, 1987 between the Borrower and the Bank.
(c)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil;
 
(d)
"Cruzado" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(f)
"SUCAM" means the Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica,  the 
Ministry's Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns, in charge, with  financial and 
administrative autonomy, of the direct execution of activities related to the 
eradication and control of endemic diseases as established by the Borrower Decrees No. 
66,623, dated May 22, 1970, and No. 79,056, dated December 30, 1976, and governed by 
the By-Laws (as hereinafter defined); unless the context otherwise requires the term 
"SUCAM" shall be used in this  Agreement to mean SUCAM, a Superintendency within the 
Ministry that will  act as agency of the Borrower for carrying out the Project 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Manager" means the Head of Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Projetos 
(COGEP) established in SUCAM by Portaria No. 421, dated August 27, 1987;
(h)
"By-Laws" means the internal regulations of SUCAM as set forth in the 
Ministry's Portaria No. 161/BSB/76, as modified by the Ministry's  Portarias No. 
221/BSB/82, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on  September 14, 1982, No. 
229, published in such Gazette on September 23,  1982, No. 265, published in such 
Gazette on October 29, 1982, No. 421, published in such Gazette on August 27, 1987 and 
No. 407, dated September 4, 1986; and the Ministry's Portaria No's. 935 and 936, each 
published on October 20, 1988;
(i)
"to retain" and "retaining" mean any legal form of acquiring and 
utilizing services of staff by SUCAM, or on behalf or on account or for the  benefit 
of SUCAM, for the Project including any situation where staff is  reassigned from 
other positions within the Borrower's public sector, or by means of any other 
administrative arrangement adequate for that purpose;
(j)
"Other staff" means staff other than professionals and technicians  (the 
latter hereinafter called "Higher Staff"), including guardas;
(k)
"Research Steering Committee" means the Committee referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement; and
(l)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha 
Mercante-AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant 
Marine established by Decree Law 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 
31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the 
Bank, may substitute it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to ninety nine million dollars ($99,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
Page  3
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges  thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate  per annum for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per  annum above the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such 
Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Health of the Borrower or the person or persons 
designated by him are designated as representatives of the Borrower  for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Ministry acting  through SUCAM with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with  appropriate administrative, financial and public 
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Manager is at all  times a 
person whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through SUCAM, shall take all necessary measures to:
Page  4
(i)
enable SUCAM to retain a substantial number of the staff required 
for the Project and to do it with due regard to their 
qualifications and experience so as to ensure adequate Project 
execution;
(ii)
obtain from each applicable Borrower's State or Municipality, 
under separate agreements to be entered between SUCAM and such 
State or Municipality, the commitment thereof to retain, if 
warranted, the remainder of the Other staff required to perform 
services in respect of the Project in each such State or 
Municipality which has not been retained by SUCAM or the State in 
question, as the case may be; and
(iii)
ensure that in the case that Other staff are retained in 
accordance with (ii) above by a State or a Municipality, SUCAM 
shall pay the State or Municipality in question to cover the 
corresponding costs.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through SUCAM shall:
(a)
ensure that all studies under Part A (2)(b) of the Project are completed 
by June 30, 1990, or such other date agreed between the Bank and SUCAM;
(b)
promptly after the completion of the studies, seek the agreement of the 
Bank in respect of an implementation schedule for works under Part A  (3)(a) of the 
Project, including time table thereof, and identification of  (i) Federal, State or 
Municipal agencies who may be proposed to carry out said works using their force 
account on behalf of SUCAM and (ii) the corresponding works.
(c)
execute all of the aforesaid works in accordance with the schedule 
referred to in (b) above, as and when agreed with the Bank, ensuring that each 
contract under (b) above is approved by the Bank prior to the signing  thereof; 
provided, however, that, the Bank shall not disapprove any such  contract without 
prior consultation with SUCAM.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through SUCAM shall maintain the Research 
Steering Committee of leading scientists established by SUCAM for purposes of Part B 
(4) of the Project by SUCAM's Portaria No. 133 dated  February 17, 1989 and whose 
functions, inter alia, shall be to: (i) review and select projects under said Part of 
the Project; (ii) analyze reports on the monitoring of the selected projects; and 
(iii) derive to the appropriate institution any basic research project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that a contract, on terms and conditions 
approved by the said Committee, is signed by Instituto Evandro Chagas, as required by 
said Portaria, with each entity or individual responsible for the execution of each of 
the aforesaid projects selected by the Committee,  before expenditures are incurred 
thereunder.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SUCAM, shall prepare a final plan,  by not 
later than December 31, 1990, for the appointment of a technical  support unit in 
Belem, and shall promptly thereafter furnish said plan to the Bank for comments.
Section 3.06. SUCAM shall appoint, by not later than July 31, 1990, a full time 
public health specialist with experience in malariology to each of its Regional 
Directorates within the Amazon area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through SUCAM, maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with  sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
SUCAM, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the By-laws  shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to  affect materially and 
adversely, in the Bank's opinion, the carrying out of  the Project without alternative 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank  having been made.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01  (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue  for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower to perform its  obligations pursuant to this 
Agreement, together with all necessary powers  and rights in connection therewith, 
have been performed or given.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, or by any agency thereof or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower to perform its  obligations pursuant to this 
Agreement, together with all necessary powers  and rights in connection therewith, 
have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of August 31, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
0611506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
With copies to:
Ministro da Saude
Ministerio da Saude
Esplanada dos Ministerios,
Bloco 11, 5o Andar
70058 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINSAUDE
0611752 MS BR
Brasilia, D.F.
Superintendente
SUCAM
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco 11, Anexo, 3©  Andar
70058 Brasilia, D.F.
Page  7
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SUCAM
0611603 MS BR
Brasilia, D.F.
Secretario
Secretaria de Assuntos
Internacionais da SEPLAN/PR
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco K, 5© Andar
Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SEAIN/SEPLAN/PR
611928 SPPR BR
Brasilia, D.F.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Cid Heraclito de Queiroz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works including        $10,000,000       50%
     architectural
     fees
(2)  Chemical               $28,000,000
     supplies,
     drugs and
     other
     materials
     (i)  internationally                     100% of foreign
          procured                            expenditures and
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures
Page  8
                                              (ex-factory cost)
     (ii) domestically                        50% of local
          procured                            expenditures
(3)  Equipment, other       $ 8,000,000
     than electronic
     or micro-computer
     equipment, and
     furniture
     (i)  internationally                     100% of foreign
          procured                            expenditures and
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures
                                              (ex-factory cost)
     (ii) domestically                        50% of local
          procured                            expenditures
(4)  Consultants'            $4,000,000       50% of local
     services,                                expenditures
     training                                 for training,
     and research                             research acti-
     activities                               vities and ser-
                                              vices of consul-
                                              tants residing
                                              within the
                                              territory of the
                                              Borrower and
                                              100% of foreign
                                              expenditures for
                                              services of other
                                              consultants
(5)  Contractual             $2,000,000       50%
     services other
     than consultants',
     for infor-
     mation system
     maintenance
(6)  Incremental            $30,000,000        60%, until with-
     operating                                 drawal appli-
     costs                                     cations under
                                               this Category
                                               (the Applica-
                                               tions) have
                                               reached the
                                               aggregate of
                                               $6,000,000;
                                               thereafter
                                               50%, until the
                                               Applications
                                               have reached the
                                               aggregate of
                                               $11,000,000;
                                               thereafter
                                               40%, until the
                                               Applications
                                               have reached
                                               the aggregate
                                               of $18,000,000;
                                               and 32.5%
                                               thereafter
(7)  Refunding of                900,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
     tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                               Agreement
(8)  Unallocated              16,100,000
Page  9
                             ___________
          TOTAL              $99,000,000
                             ___________
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means (i) payments for  field 
workers retained after December 31, 1987, including per diem and  transport, (ii) 
supervision expenses, (iii) fuel and vehicle maintenance expenses, and (iv) transport 
of pesticides and other supplies. All of the  above costs shall qualify as incremental 
operating costs to the extent they are incurred for purposes of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$6,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for  expenditures before that date 
but after November 1, 1988; and
(b)
payments made to finance the purchase of goods the importation of which 
has been prohibited by the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to reduce the prevalence of malaria to a 
level which no longer constitutes a public health problem and to reduce the risk of 
malaria reintroduction to areas where transmission  has been interrupted; and (ii) to 
strengthen SUCAM's institutional development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Malaria Control Program
 
The program will adjust SUCAM's control strategy by strengthening conventional 
field operations and by introducing new activities more appropriate to changing 
conditions in Amazonia. The adjusted program will be comprised of:
(1)
Vector Control
 
(a)
Intradomiciliary pesticide application, ultra low volume spraying, aerial 
fogging, and utilization of pesticide impregnated curtains;
(b)
Acquisition and utilization, for (a) above of about 3,000 tons of DDT 
(75% concentrate), a smaller quantity of other pesticides equivalent in value to 20% 
of the estimated cost of the aforesaid DDT, and of specialized spraying equipment.
(c)
Retaining services of field personnel, materials and supplies including 
fuel and other maintenance supplies for the activities under (a) above.
(2)
Entomological Surveillance
 
(a)
Surveillance of vector density, behavior and physiological adaptation to 
pesticides;
(b)
Execution of entomological studies to identify source reduction projects 
to be carried out under (3) below;
(c)
Enhancement of the existing SUCAM regional entomological surveillance 
teams who supervise capture of vector specimens for analysis by providing them with 
greater and appropriate orientation from higher level specialists;
Page  10
(d)
construction and equipping, including microscopes and supplies, of new 
entomological reference laboratories in Belem and Manaus;
(e)
Retaining additional personnel to set up entomological units in all SUCAM 
regional directorates and districts; and
(f)
training programs and fellowships for all of the above.
 
(3)
Source Reduction Projects
 
(a)
Execution of works, primarily in urban areas with drainage and sanitation 
problems that result in vector breeding sites and high levels of  transmission, as 
determined by SUCAM's Regional Directorates on the basis of studies under (2) (b) 
above; under agreements with municipalities or specialized institutions; and
(b)
Acquisition and utilization by SUCAM of technical assistance and training 
in engineering services to upgrade SUCAM's capabilities in planning and coordinating 
environmental sanitation activities.
(4)
Epidemiological Surveillance and Treatment
 
(a)
Reinforcement and extension to newly settled and expanding areas  of 
human occupation of activities concerning active and passive case  detection, 
stratification of transmission (by area), and diagnosis and  treatment of all positive 
or febrile patients.
(b)
Retaining services of field personnel, and acquisition of equipment, 
drugs, materials and supplies, including fuel and other maintenance supplies, for the 
activities under (a) above.
(5)
Information-Education-Communication (IEC) Activities 
 
(a)
Exploration of options for community education and involvement, and 
implementation of IEC programs.
(b)
Acquisition and utilization of: (i) equipment and materials, (ii)  
services for the preparation of educational material and for the dissemination thereof 
through radio and other mass media, (iii) technical  assistance services in community 
education and mobilization, and (iv) services of educators; and
(c)
Training of, and Project related travel by, field staff. 
 
(6)
Special Measures for Disease Control in Indian Reservations
 
(a)
Reinforcement of malaria and related endemic diseases control through 
treatment of cases, vector control and education.
(b)
Establishment of improved methods for collection, registration,  
processing and consolidation of epidemiological data.
(c)
Strengthening of epidemiological surveillance by the establishment of 
notification posts, and training of personnel who conduct epidemiological surveillance 
activities.
(d)
Stregthening of health education programs, through development of 
educational materials which will take into account indian values and  ethnomedical 
concepts with the assistance of specialized institutions; and
(e)
Leasing of aircraft and other services for the transport of personnel and 
supplies to remote areas in Amazonia in order to supervise services adequately.
(7)
Support Enhancement
 
Retaining of about 1550 field workers for (1), (2), (4), (5) and (6) above.
Part B:
SUCAM's Institutional Development Program
 
(1)
In-service training
 
(a)
Training courses for guardas, Endemic Disease Inspectors, and  General 
Inspectors, jointly with SUCAM field operations personnel, and courses for health 
Page  11
agents and volunteers (notificantes), who will be  trained by Inspectors in local 
communities;
(b)
Training of mid- and upper-level professionals in Public Health 
Administration, Health Education, Planning, Epidemiology and Entomology; and
(c)
Trainer training and preparation of manuals, guidelines and standards.
 
(2)
Information Systems
 
(a)
Acquisition and utilization of services of data processing analysts, 
organization and methods analysts, data processing programmers, and computer operators 
to assist SUCAM in all activities below;
(b)
training of SUCAM personnel to enable SUCAM to adopt a micro-computer 
based technology for the processing of the data gathered by SUCAM;
(c)
development of a data processing system and maintenance thereof;
 
(d)
leasing, purchase and utilization of software and software maintenance 
services;
(e)
purchase of a central mainframe computer to be installed in SUCAM 
headquarters and utilized in providing a repository for historical data and  
performing other data processing functions such as payroll and accounting;
(f)
construction and subsequent maintenance of a central computer site and of 
370 micro-computer sites; and
(g)
acquisition and utilization of supplies for the aforesaid sites.
 
(3)
Infrastructure
 
(a)
Upgrading and enlargement of SUCAM's regional offices in Amapa and Para 
or in other places as agreed between the Bank and SUCAM.
(b)
construction and utilization of district and sub-district offices, and 
mini-posts in places as agreed between the Bank and SUCAM; and
(c)
construction and utilization of supply warehouses in Para, Maranhao and 
Amapa, or in other places agreed between the Bank and SUCAM.
(4)
Operations Research
 
A program of operational research on malaria control consisting  of specific 
Sub-projects approved by a Research Steering Committee set up for that purpose.
(5)
Inter-institutional Actions for Health
 
A program for the transfer by SUCAM to other agencies of responsibility for 
certain endemic disease surveillance activities which  SUCAM considers could gradually 
be transferred without impairing SUCAM's other functions. In this context, plans will 
be prepared by States and  Municipalities so as to increase their participation in 
training, treatment,  health education and other activities reated to disease 
surveillance and control.
*   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1994
through March 15, 2004
4,950,000
Page  12
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding
on the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not 
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before 
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
Page  13
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent possible, contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to permit 
international competitive bidding.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  
indicate any preference which would be granted, the information required to  establish 
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages 
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods contain 
components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the completed goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale of 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding:  (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of custom duties and  other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid, or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (a) the 
amount of custom duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest custom duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for (a) civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
less, up to an aggregate amount of $15,700,000, and subject to the provisions of 
paragraphs 2 (a) and 3 below, and (b) goods (other than pesticides) estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $25,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $250,000, up to an 
aggregate amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan not exceeding the 
equivalent of $16,000,000, may be awarded in accordance with competitive bidding 
procedures locally advertised, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for (a) civil works estimated to cost not more than $30,000 equivalent 
up to an aggregate amount to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan not 
exceeding the equivalent of $4,500,000 and subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 
below, and (b) readily available off-the-shelf  goods or standard specification 
commodities estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 up to an aggregate 
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent of 
$16,000,000, may be awarded following evaluation and comparison of quotations 
furnished by at  least three contractors or suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.  
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated quotations.
Page  14
3.
Civil works comprising extension of existing facilities, or construction of 
small scattered new facilities in remote locations, up to an  aggregate amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000, 
may be carried out by force account  by SUCAM in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded under the procedures referred 
to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule and the first five contracts for goods and 
the first five contracts for civil works, in both  cases to the extent each such 
contract exceeds the equivalent of $100,000  and is to be awarded under paragraph 1 of 
Part C of Section 1 of this Schedule, and contracts for civil works consisting of the 
construction of new facilities estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modifiedto ensure that the two  conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 25% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and  terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "custom duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 6 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the  eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  15
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which  do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish  to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was  made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount  of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in theSpecial Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not  eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of  this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
