Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3072-ZIM
Development Credit Agreement
(Community Action Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  June 25, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3072-ZIM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AWPB” or “Annual Work Program and Budget” means a work program and 
budget for any fiscal year submitted, or to be submitted, annually in advance by 
the Borrower, and pertaining to the Project, or any part thereof;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a rural-based community or community group, 
which is determined to be eligible for a Grant, as hereinafter defined, in terms 
of the eligibility criteria specified in the Project Operational Manual, as 
hereinafter defined, and for whose benefit a Grant is provided, or proposed to 
be provided;
(c)
“CSO” means the Borrower’s Central Statistical Office;
(d)
“DLRS” means the Department of Labor Research and Statistics of 
MPSLSW;
(e)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for the benefit of a Beneficiary to finance a Subproject, 
as hereinafter defined; 
(f)
"IPMAS" means Integrated Poverty Monitoring and Analysis System, an 
information network established by the Borrower to provide integrated poverty 
monitoring and analysis, and referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(g)
“IPMAS Operational Document” means the IPMAS Operational Document 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) (i) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 hereto, as same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
IPMAS Operational Document;
(h)
“MPSLSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Service, Labour 
and Social Welfare;
(i)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating pursuant to 
the Private Voluntary Organizations Act, Chapter 17.05 of the Borrower’s laws;
(j)
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
under the Project on account of (i) local contractual staff salaries and related 
employment costs, travel costs and allowances, (ii) operation, insurance and 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and (iii) office rent, supplies, 
utilities and communications charges;
(k)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, and referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“PMS” means Poverty Monitoring Section established pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (c) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and referred to in 
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 hereto;
(m)
“Project Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, and 
referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 hereto, as same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Operational Manual;
(n)
“SDF” means the Social Development Fund, a department of MPSLSW;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
Page  3
(p)
“Subproject” means an activity referred to under Part A of the 
Project, and in respect of which a Grant is provided, or proposed to be 
provided, for the benefit of a Beneficiary;
(q)
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower and 
a Beneficiary, and referred to in paragraph 8 (g) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(r)
“TAG” means the Technical Advisory Group established pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (c) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 hereto; and
(s)
"Zimbabwe Dollar" or "Z$" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty five million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a 
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of eligible expenditures relating to a 
Subproject, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
 (b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in a freely-convertible currency a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later 
date as the Borrower and the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Page  4
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 
2008, and ending April 15, 2033.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 15, 2018, shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid, and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through SDF, and Part B thereof 
through DLRS, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical  practices, and 
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, 
Page  5
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall allocate an amount of the Credit not exceeding such amount as may be 
allocated from time to time to Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to provide Grants to finance Subprojects, on the 
terms and conditions specified in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the 
Association. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying 
out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
Page  6
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain in any fiscal year a ratio of Operating Costs to aggregate amount 
disbursed on account of Subprojects of not more than 15 percent, or such other 
percentage as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Operational Manual has been duly approved by the 
Borrower and the Association, and adopted by the Borrower;
(b)
the SDF Advisory Board referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement and PMU have been established, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and the Project Manager referred to in paragraph 
3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement selected, in accordance with Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and 
accounting system, and designed a management information system, in accordance 
with paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  7
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Senior Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag 7705
Causeway, Harare
Zimbabwe
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
22141 ZW
Harare
Zimbabwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
By /s/  Amos Midzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment and
100% of foreign
vehicles:
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
90% of local
expenditures for
other items pur-
chased locally
(a) under Part B of
    250,000
the Project
(b) under Part C of
    500,000
the Project
(2)
Consultants' services
100%
and training:
(a) under Part B of
    750,000
the Project
(b) under Part C of
    650,000
the Project
(3)
Grants
 36,000,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(4)
Operating Costs:
80%
(a) under Part B of
  1,200,000
the PRoject
(b) under Part C of
  1,650,000
the PRoject
(5)
Unallocated
  4,000,000
TOTAL
 45,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement;
(b)
in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been provided in 
accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
Page  9
referred to, in this Agreement and the Project Operational Manual; or
(c)
in respect of payments for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), 
(2) (a) and (4) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless (i) the 
IPMAS Operational Document has been duly approved by the Association, and 
adopted by the Borrower, and (ii) the TAG and PMS have been established, under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and the Poverty Monitoring 
Manager referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement duly 
appointed, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and 
consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent, Grants, operating costs and training, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the standard of living of 
poorer rural communities through increased opportunities for such communities to 
organize themselves, and plan and implement activities responsive to their 
needs, and through improvements in the monitoring system in place to monitor the 
impact of poverty reduction policies and programs on the poor and, hence, in the 
design of such policies and programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Community Subprojects
1.
Provision of grants for the financing of the following activities:
(a) 
identification, design, preparation, implementation, and operation 
and maintenance, of development activities sponsored by rural-based communities 
or community groups, including construction and rehabilitation of essential 
community-based social and economic infrastructure, and natural resource 
management activities; and
(b)
training of local communities and community groups in skills 
required for identification, design, preparation, implementation, and operation 
and maintenance, of Subprojects, and effective maintenance of community-owned 
assets, and in specialized programs covering particular themes or specialized 
skills. 
Part B:
Poverty Monitoring
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, for the production of annual poverty profiles and trend analysis of 
household data and other relevant data, establishment and maintenance of a 
primary data bank on poverty indicators, and modification of the national 
household survey program to serve poverty monitoring needs.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, for the carrying out of regular participatory poverty assessments and 
other priority studies, upgrading of data collection efforts, preparation of 
policy briefs for the benefit of appropriate central and local planners, and 
dissemination of information on social welfare dimensions to the public, 
Page  10
policymakers, NGOs, academic institutions and other groups and associations, 
using newsletters, workshops and other media.
Part C:
SDF Institutional Support
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, for the  establishment and operation of the PMU.
2.
Carrying out of research activities to assess the real benefits of 
Subprojects, maintain a continuous dialogue with local communities and community 
groups, control the quality of Subproject design and maintenance, and monitor 
the achievement of expected outcomes of Subprojects.
3.
Carrying out of a training program in the processes and procedures for the 
review, appraisal, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of Subprojects 
for the benefit of SDF and local government staff, including training in group, 
problem-solving and decision-making; financial management of Subprojects, and 
strengthening of links between SDF, on the one hand, and field offices, local 
governments and Beneficiaries, on the other.
4.
Organization of workshops and seminars, as well as on-the-job training and 
on-site support, for the benefit of facilitators, and district and regional 
officials, in procedures and processes pertaining to review, appraisal, 
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, and skills required for 
identification, design, preparation, implementation, and operation and 
maintenance, of Subprojects, as well as in sector-specific aspects of 
Subprojects.
5.
Promotion of information and outreach activities amongst the poorest and 
most vulnerable rural-based communities and community groups to ensure that such 
communities and community groups are made aware of investment opportunities 
offered under the Project and other similar programs, and given assistance to 
undertake the initial steps involved in the preparation and submission of 
Subproject applications.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, 
and September 1997 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  11
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, and works, required for 
Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, and 
specified in the Project Operational Manual.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works required for Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to exceed $41,300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions under Parts B and C.1 above, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  12
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 
or more, as well as the first five contracts procured in accordance with the 
National Competitive Bidding procedures, and the first three contracts for small 
works in each District under Part A of the Project, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for audits, the 
management information system, poverty monitoring, beneficiary assessments and 
environmental impact assessments under Parts B and C of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection.
Services for technical advisory services under Parts B and C of the 
Project which are estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Community Participation
Services required to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Subprojects may 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to Borrower and the 
Association, and specified in the Project Operational Manual.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical advisory services under Parts A and B of the 
Page  13
Project estimated to cost less than $1,000 equivalent, tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
For purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
establish:
(a)
an SDF Advisory Board, consisting of representatives of concerned 
Ministries of the Borrower, social development programs, NGOs and the private 
sector, to be responsible to provide overall policy guidance under Parts A and C 
of the Project, including approval of Annual Work Programs and Budgets, and 
review of implementation, progress and geographical distribution of Subprojects, 
and to ensure consistency of Subprojects with the Borrower’s underlying 
objectives and strategy; and
(b)
a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be responsible, subject to the 
overall policy guidance of the SDF Advisory Board referred to in subparagraph 
Page  14
(i) of this paragraph, for the day-to-day coordination of the execution of Parts 
A and C of the Project, including coordination of procurement and disbursement 
activities, preparation of annual and quarterly progress reports, audits, and 
Annual Work Programs and Budgets, and coordination of the review, appraisal, 
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of Subprojects. 
2.
(a)
For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall establish 
a multi-agency Technical Advisory Group (TAG), to be chaired by MPSLSW, and 
consisting of representatives of central planning bodies, line Ministries, CSO, 
research institutions, NGOs, the private sector and donors, to guide the process 
of development of the Borrower’s proposed Integrated Poverty Monitoring and 
Analysis System (IPMAS), including facilitation of opportunities for regular 
technical exchanges between institutional partners on poverty information and 
use, identification of priority policy issues for further studies and 
investigation, approval of guidelines for the financing of studies and 
commissioning of priority studies, and approval of the Annual Work Programs and 
Budgets.
(b)
The Borrower shall designate the Poverty Monitoring Section (PMS) 
of DLRS to serve as secretariat of TAG and, as such, to be responsible for 
coordination of the execution of Part B of the Project, including coordination 
of procurement and disbursement activities, preparation of annual and quarterly 
progress reports, audits, and Annual Work Programs and Budgets, preparation of 
guidelines for the financing of studies and commissioning of priority studies.
3.
(a)
PMU shall be headed by a Project Manager, who shall be assisted by 
a Finance and Administration Unit, a Technical Services Support Unit, and a 
Monitoring Unit.
(b)
PMS shall be headed by a Poverty Monitoring Manager, who shall be 
assisted by other higher level and support staff, as appropriate.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of Project Manager, 
Poverty Monitoring Manager and other higher level staff involved in the 
implementation of the Project, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate 
officials, having qualifications and experience acceptable to the Borrower and  
the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Association
(i)
a Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the Association, 
giving details of 
all procurement and disbursement arrangements, 
performance indicators and 
other administrative, 
financial and organizational arrangements, as shall have 
been 
agreed with the Association for purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, 
including, in the case of Subprojects, details of all procedural 
arrangements 
for the review, appraisal, supervision, and monitoring 
and evaluation, of 
Subprojects, procedures for submission 
and review of requests for financing, 
criteria for the 
determination of eligible Beneficiaries and approval of 
Subprojects, monitoring and evaluation processes, applicable procurement, 
disbursement and other implementation guidelines, and model 
forms of 
Subproject Agreements, and
(ii)
an IPMAS Operational Document, acceptable to the Borrower 
and the Association, giving details of all procurement and 
disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements, 
as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes 
Page  15
of Part B of the Project; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Operational Manual and IPMAS Operational Document, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Schedule, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction 
with the Association, a joint annual review of the Project or, in the case of 
the review to be undertaken not later than November 30, 2000, a midterm review, 
during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its respective 
obligations under this Agreement, including
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation 
of the Project, 
having regard to the performance indicators 
referred to in paragraphs 4 (a) 
(i) and (ii) of this Schedule,
(ii)
a review of the proposed Annual Work Programs and Budgets 
for the forthcoming fiscal year,
(iii)
a review of the progress of Subprojects and, in the case of 
completed Subprojects, a review of the status of compliance 
with requirements relating to maintenance of the productive 
assets resulting from such Subprojects and payment of 
recurrent expenditures generated thereunder, and
(iv)
a review of the results of surveys and beneficiary 
assessments, and an evaluation of the impact of the Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving 
details, of the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or cause to be implemented, such other measures as may have been 
agreed between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year, submit 
to the Association, for review and approval, proposed Annual Work Programs and 
Budgets for the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary 
allocations and disbursement estimates, proposed procurement activities, and 
such other particulars as the Association may require.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review,
(i) 
annual and quarterly progress reports on the status of the 
Project, to be 
submitted not later than two months 
after the end of each fiscal year and one 
month after the end 
Page  16
of each quarter, respectively, and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the 
Project.
7.
The Borrower shall by June 30, 1999, establish, and thereafter maintain, a 
management information system, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, 
to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, and the performance of the 
Borrower thereunder, having regard to the performance indicators referred to in 
paragraph 4 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Schedule.
8.
Further to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
(a)
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to provide Grants 
to finance Subprojects, in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual;
(b)
no Grant shall be granted except to finance a Subproject which (i) 
is technically sound and feasible, and financially viable, (ii) has benefits to 
offer to the most disadvantaged and vulnerable rural-based communities and 
community groups, irrespective of any consideration of ethnicity, political 
affiliation or religion, and (iii) contributes to poverty reduction in one of 
the eligible sectors of activity, in terms of the criteria set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual;
(c)
no Subproject shall be considered for approval unless (i) the 
Beneficiary has provided a plan for the maintenance of the productive assets 
resulting from the Subproject, upon its completion, and for the payment of 
recurrent expenditures generated thereunder, and (ii) in the case of a 
Subproject involving the involuntary resettlement of persons, an action plan for 
the settlement of such affected persons has been established and agreed upon 
with such affected persons, and deemed acceptable by the Association;
(d)
every Subproject proposal shall be classified according to 
environmental impact category, and subjected as necessary to environmental 
impact analysis, to ensure that: (i) it is fully consistent with environmental 
appraisal criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual, and (ii) where 
appropriate, mitigation measures designed to minimize adverse effects of the 
proposed Subproject are identified and incorporated in the Subproject design;
(e)
Grants shall be provided for the benefit of eligible Beneficiaries, 
and according to a cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the 
Association and specified in the Project Operational Manual; provided, however, 
that 
(i)
the proceeds of a Grant shall not be used to finance taxes 
or duties levied on 
or in respect of eligible expenditures 
relating to a Subproject, or any part 
thereof, and
(ii)
the amount of each Grant shall not exceed 80 percent of the 
total cost of the Subproject;
(f)
goods, services and works required for the purposes of financing 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and set forth in the Project Operational Manual; 
and
(g)
for purposes of each Grant, the Borrower shall conclude an 
agreement with the Beneficiary in the form of the model provided in the Project 
Page  17
Operational Manual, setting forth the respective obligations of the parties 
thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement 
procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of the 
Subproject, and the right of the Borrower to
(i)
require the Beneficiary (A) to carry out the Subproject with 
due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, 
engineering and technical 
practices, and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and to maintain adequate records, and (B) upon 
completion of the Subproject, to make provision for the maintenance 
of the 
productive assets resulting therefrom, and for 
the payment of recurrent 
expenditures generated thereunder,
(ii)
obtain all such information as the Association or the 
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the 
implementation of the Subproject and the performance of the 
Beneficiary thereunder, and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use 
of the proceeds of a Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary 
to perform its obligations under such agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as 
amounts paid or to be paid under Grants,  and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association, pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
Page  18
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for the Special 
Account.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
Page  19
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
