Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15099-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1996
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 12, 1995)
Currency Name = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 8.3
Y 1.00 = $0.119
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September I - August 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEII   -   Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas Project (Second Basic Education Project)
CAS    -   Country Assistance Strategy
EDPP  -   Education Development in Poor Provinces Project (First Basic Education Project)
EMIC  -   Educational Management Information Center
EMIS  -   Educational Management Information System
FILO   -    Foreign Investment and Loan Office
GOC   -   Government of China
HES    -   Household Education Spending
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -    International Development Association
LAN    -   Local Area Network
LSS    -    Lower Secondary School
MIS    -   Management Information System
MOL   -   Ministry of Labor
NCB   -   National Competitive Bidding
NER    -   Net Enrollment Ratio
PEC    -   Provincial Education Commission
RMC   -    World Bank Resident Mission/China
SDR    -    Special Drawing Right
SEdC   -    State Education Commission
SOE    -    Statement of Expenditure
SPC    -   State Planning Commission
STR    -   Student to Teacher Ratio
TIS    -   Teacher Information System
UBE   -   Universal Basic Education
GLOSSARY
Province-China is divided into provinces, autonomous regions and province-level
municipalities. In this report "province" refers to any of these, as appropriate.



CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency:    State Education Commission (SEdC)
Beneficiaries:           SEdC and 124 poverty counties in seven provinces (Anhui,
Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Jilin, Qinghai)
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  Credit: SDR 67.3 million ($100 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with 35 years' maturity, and 10 years' grace
Commitment Fee:           0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See Table 3.3
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-36950



CONTENTS
1. BASIC EDUCATION IN CHINA                                        ................................................1
A. Background and Current Status ...............................................1I
B. The Basic Educational System: Disparities and Issues ......................................3
C. Government Strategy, Policies and Programs ................................................                  6
D. Bank Group Involvement in the Sector ................................................1.1
E. Lessons Learned ...............................................                                             13
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMENT   .                                                         ............................. 15
A. Project Objectives ...............................................                                          15
B. Project Design and Preparation ...............................................                             17
3. THE PROJECT ...............................................                                                           21
A. The Project Area ...............................................                                           21
B. Detailed Project Description ...............................................                               23
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................................                                  30
D. Project Costs ...............................................                                              31
E. Financing Plan ...............................................                                             31
F. Sustainability and Affordability ...............................................                           33
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                          ............................................... 36
A. Management of Project Implementation ...............................................                       36
B. Procurement ...............................................                                                38
C. Disbursements ..............................................                                               40
D. Reporting ..............................................                                                   42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in October/
November 1995. Mission members were Halsey L. Beemer, Jr. (General Educator,
EA2RS, Task Manager), Hena Mukherjee (General Educator, EA2RS), Sandra F. Erb
(Operations Analyst, EA2RS, Consultant); Mun Tsang (Human Resource Economist,
Consultant) and Wingon Lee (Educator, Consultant). Substantial contributions to project
design and preparation were also made by Eid Dib (Architect, Consultant) and R.K.
Ramachandran (Education Officer, UNICEF/Beijing). Peer reviewers were Lee Travers
(Environmental Economist, EA2EM), Tom Eisemon (HDD); M.C. Chang (MN2HR) and
J. Middleton (EDINP). The responsible Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg and the
Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- ii -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................................                                                  43
A. Benefits ........................................................                                                43
B. Project Financial Analysis ........................................................                              43
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 46
A. Agreements ........................................................                                              46
B. Recommendation ........................................................                                          47
ANNEXES
Annex  1:   Social Sector Expenditure Review-Education  Section ................................. 49
Annex 2:  Proposed Basic Education III Project Questionnaire
Concerning Review  of OED  Audits ........................................................                      53
Annex  3:   Key Provincial Benchmark Indicators-Primary Education ............................ 56
Annex 4: Key Provincial Benchmark Indicators-Lower
Secondary Education, 1993 ........................................................                            57
Annex 5:   Selection Criteria for Provinces ........................................................                           58
Annex 6:   Provincial Allocations to Nonproject Counties ............................................... 59
Annex 7:   Project Indicators for Project-Supported Counties .......................................... 60
Annex  8:   Technical Assistance Summary ........................................................                              62
Annex 9:  Dissemination Projects Component-Implementation Guidelines ................ 66
Annex  10: Chinese Experts Panel-Terms of Reference (TOR) .                                          ..................................... 69
Annex 11: Expenditure Accounts by Components-Base Costs                                                      . .    73
Annex  12: Economic Analysis ........................................................                                          75
Annex  13: Project Sustainability ........................................................                                     85
Annex  14: Project Implementation Provisions                                   ........................................ 86
Annex  15: Distribution of Force Account Funds by Province .                                       ........................................ 88
Annex  16: Loan Disbursement Schedule ........................................................                                 89
Annex  17: Implementation Timetable ........................................................                                   90
Annex  18: Supervision By IDA ........................................................                                         91
Annex 19: Provincial Counterpart Funding as a Proportion of
Provincial Education Budgets ........................................................                         92
Annex 20:  Sources of Counterpart Funding                                   .......................................... 93
Annex 21: Documents and Data Available in the Project File .                                       ........................................ 94
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 3.1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component ....................................................... 32
Table 3.2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category ........................................................  33
Table 3.3: Financing Plan ........................................................                                             33
Table 4.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements ........................................................ 40
Table 4.2: Estimated Disbursement Profile ........................................................                             41
Table 4.3: Disbursements ........................................................                                              41



- iii -
MAPS
IBRD 27694  Third Basic Education Project-Map of Anhui Province
IBRD 27695  Third Basic Education Project-Map of Fujian Province
IBRD 27696 Third Basic Education Project-Map of Gansu Province
IBRD 27697 Third Basic Education Project-Map of Hebei Province
IBRD 27698  Third Basic Education Project-Map of Henan Province
IBRD 27699 Third Basic Education Project-Map of Jilin Province
IBRD 27700  Third Basic Education Project-Map of Qinghai Province



1. BASIC EDUCATION IN CHINA
A. BACKGROUND AND CURRENT STATUS
Sector Reform Agenda
1.1   Educational development is a major instrument in China's drive for
modernization to the end of this century and the early stage of the 21st century.
Educational reforms and development, responsive to the changing human capital
demands of the growing economy, were encapsulated in a series of policy and legal
documents, such as "Decision to Reform the Educational Structure" (1985), "Compulsory
Education Law" (1986), "Outline for Reform and Development of Education" (1993),
and "Education Law" (1995). The current reforms relevant to basic education focus on
the following areas: (a) the provision of nine years' basic education for all school-age
children; (b) the development of vocational and technical education at the secondary and
postsecondary levels; (c) the strengthening of education management at all levels by
strengthening the role of principals and local authorities in the design of the reforms, and
transferring the responsibility for providing basic education to local governments under
the central government's policy guidance and financial support; (d) the great increase of
investment in basic education by the governments at all levels; (e) the continuous
improvement and gradual standardization of school operational conditions; (f) the
enhancement of teachers quality by further strengthening of teachers' education and
training. The State Education Commission (SEdC), created in June 1986 as the successor
to the Ministry of Education (MOE) and responsible nationally for policy, budgeting and
coordination of this sector, therefore has the mission of overseeing the above reforms at
the national level.
Basic Education: Targets and Current Situation
1.2   China's achievements in the provision of comprehensive schooling have been
spearheaded by pursuing the national target of achieving universal basic education (UBE)
with differential timescales throughout the country. In 1986, the Government passed a
"Compulsory Education Law" that instituted a nine-year basic education system, divided
into two stages: primary education (with 5 or 6 grades) and lower secondary (with 3 or 4
grades, depending on provincial plans). According to specific implementation plans,
"compulsory" education should be achieved gradually in different regions, with urban
and more developed areas in the interior achieving universal education first, and less
developed areas more gradually. Universalization of the nine-year program throughout
China is expected to be achieved by 2000.
1.3   National criteria for successful achievement of nine-year compulsory education
are highly specific and include the following: net enrollment rates for primary education



-2 -
of over 98 percent and the transition rate into lower secondary of approximately
95 percent; retention rates of over 97 percent within each year at the primary level;
promotion of more than 95 percent of primary completers to lower secondary; and a
national completion rate of 98 percent for primary education in urban and developed
areas, with individual provinces determining completion rates for lower secondary.
Dropout rates at primary level are to be held at under 1 percent and under 2 percent at
lower secondary level. The ratio of qualified teachers at primary level will be more than
90 percent and at lower secondary more than 80 percent. The illiteracy rate among the
population aged 15 is not to exceed 1 percent. Floor space norms for primary schools are
3 to 5 square meters per pupil and 4 to 6 meters for lower secondary. Refinements of
these norms change according to number of classes in the school, with the unit generally
decreasing as the number of classes increases.
1.4   Criteria for poor rural areas are different. The net enrollment target rate for
primary schooling is 95 percent; for lower secondary is 85 percent; and dropout rates for
primary and lower secondary are 1 percent and 3 percent, respectively. The percentage of
primary graduates among the 15-year-old population is determined by the provinces. The
illiteracy rate among the 15-year-old population is not to exceed 5 percent.  The
enrollment and dropout rates for girls, and illiteracy rate among girls aged 15 will follow
provincial criteria. More than 90 percent of rural primary teachers (the same as the
national criterion) and not less that 70 percent of lower secondary teachers will be
qualified.
1.5    Despite the challenges posed by an 80 percent rural population, and immense
variations in agricultural and economic conditions, China has already gone far in meeting
these targets. In 1994, enrollment rates for the first nine years of schooling were
reportedly 98.4 percent of the 6-11 age cohort enrolled in primary education, and more
than 60 percent of the 12-15 age cohort in lower secondary schools. Of primary
graduates, 81.8 percent went on to secondary schools (regular or vocational). Almost 98
percent of all school-age girls were enrolled in primary education. A significant
consequence of these high enrollment figures is the high literacy rates: 80 percent for
those above 15 years of age and about 93 percent among those between 15 and 25 years
of age. The projected figures for 2000 are 134 million pupils at primary level, compared
to 124 million in 1994, and 70 million at lower secondary level, an appreciable increase
over the 41 million students in 1994. Currently, China runs the largest primary school
system in the world, with 5.6 million teachers and about 697,000 schools. At the lower
secondary level (typically grade 7-9), there are 2.6 million teachers and 68,500 schools.
Regular senior secondary schools number 14,000, with 560,000 teachers.
1.6   China's record of progress may be attributed to five factors:  a strong and
sustained political commitment to the development of basic education as evidenced by
the growth in public expenditures on education from Y 9.9 billion in 1983 to Y 41.4
billion in 1993 (constant 1987 Renminbi) (see Annex 1, Table 1.3); effective organization
at all levels from the national to the local; the overall national policy of decentralization
to local authority and responsibility; strong community support to and participation in



-3 -
basic education development; and a pragmatic approach to resolving problems and
constraints.
B. THE BASIC EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM: DISPARITIES AND ISSUES
1.7   Global figures, though indicative of substantial progress, tend to mask disparities
in basic education development. Because the bulk of funding for primary and lower
secondary schooling falls on the shoulders of local governments at the village, township
and county levels, there are noticeable imbalances in the availability of educational
services between the economically advanced regions that can amply supplement national
funds, and the underdeveloped areas with very limited resources. For example, the
average rural income in poor counties is Y 400 compared with the national rural average
of Y 921.6.' Generally, urban and coastal areas have achieved the goal of nine-year basic
education but many poor, sparsely-populated and remote areas have not reached primary
education targets. The State Council in its recent "National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan
(1994-2000)" designated 592 counties to be national poverty counties which, as a
consequence, will be the focus of special poverty-targeted programs, financing and other
interventions. These counties are variously called "national poverty counties" or "8/7
counties." Schooling in these national poverty counties is marked by poor attendance and
high repetition and dropout rates.
1.8   The net enrollment ratio (NER) for primary school-age children now lags the
national average of 97.7 percent by a significant margin in five provinces-Sichuan,
Guizhou, Gansu, Yunnan and Qinghai-and in three autonomous regions-Tibet,
Ningxia and Xinjiang. The proposed project covers counties in Qinghai while the other
four provinces plus Xinjiang and Ningxia have been covered by earlier basic education
projects. Regional disparities are also indicated by completion rates (proportion of
children entering first grade who eventually complete grade 5). While the national
average in 1991-92 was estimated at 91 percent, it ranged between 99.7 percent in Beijing
and 78.6 percent in Jiangxi Province.
1.9   Two groups in the poor areas tend to be particularly disadvantaged-minority
nationalities and girls.  This reflects both cultural factors and the poverty of the
inhabitants, who need children to help the family subsist. In areas populated by minority
nationalities, economic and education levels are lower than the national average. China
has 55 minority nationalities totaling 91.2 million people and constituting 8 percent of the
population. Areas inhabited by these minorities cover 64 percent of the entire country.
There are 80 spoken languages and over 30 writing systems used by the minority
nationalities. In a study of school age children in 25 minority counties conducted by the
State Education Commission, the gross enrollment rate was 20 percentage points lower
than the national mean, with female enrollment being particularly low. This occurs
despite findings of a household survey done in four poor counties in two provinces,
l Both are State Statistical Bureau (SSB) figures for 1993 expressed in 1993 prices.



-4 -
which shows a high demand for and willingness to pay for basic education that seems to
be uniform for minority and nonninority populations in poverty areas. (See para. 5.7 for
more details.)
1.10 Among the deprived sections of the population, girls and women continue to be
more disadvantaged. Facilities for basic education are equally available for boys and
girls, yet there is a significantly lower level of utilization of facilities by girls. Almost
half the rural population is illiterate or semiliterate, and women make up 70 percent of
this number. While almost 98 percent of all school-aged girls nationwide were reportedly
enrolled in primary education in 1994, an increase of nearly 80 percent over that of China
in 1949, about two thirds of 2.6 million school-age children not in school in 1994 were
girls. China's western regions and remote, rural areas show even worse enrollment
levels.  Government studies have identified economic, sociocultural, and religious
hindrances, and lack of information regarding the potential benefits of education as the
major factors constraining girls' education.
1.11  The disparity in basic education coverage between coastal/urban areas and poor,
rural areas is manifested in a range of specific problems, the most notable being:
(a)   Rural primary and lower secondary schools are more inefficient than
their urban counterparts. This is evidenced by low student-teacher
ratios, incomplete schools, low completion rates, and low girls'
enrollments, particularly in minority schools. A survey of 328 counties in
1992 found an inverse correlation between net income per capita and
dropout and repetition rates; the lower the net income, the higher the
dropout and repetition rates. Some estimates show that nearly one third of
the children who enter grade I in poor areas drop out before completing
grade 5. Generally, there are no mechanisms to identify efficiency-related
issues and to provide and monitor corrective measures.
(b)   Seriously underfinanced rural schools in poor counties provide highly
inadequate schooling facilities. Buildings are in such poor physical
condition that they are officially classified as "dangerous." In counties in
the proposed project area, 6 percent of primary schools and 5 percent of
lower secondary schools have dangerous buildings.   The school
environment is not conducive to learning: bilingual instruction facilities,
which are needed to teach non-Chinese speaking minority children, are
lacking; both books and instructional equipment are scarce. The average
figure for project county schools meeting equipment standards for primary
level is 28 percent, increasing to 45 percent for lower secondary schools.
Distribution of teachers is uneven between urban and rural areas; the low



pay of minban2 teachers in poor communities results in low motivation
and a high turnover.
(c)   Primary schools in poor and minority areas often do not offer all six
grades. About 30 percent of the rural primary schools in project counties
are incomplete schools, i.e., they do not offer the full primnary program and
some offer only three or even fewer grades. Small villages are served by
"teaching points" which offer only two grades, 1 and 3 or 2 and 4:
counties in the proposed project currently have 9,726 (1993) such
"teaching points." Since complete primary schools may be located 4 to 5
kilometers away from small villages and boarding schools are costly,
many children tend to discontinue their education after attending an
incomplete school.
(d)   Gender disparity persists. Low enrollment of girls is most evident in
Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Ningxia, Sichuan, Tibet, Qinghai and Yunnan,
where a significant proportion of the population belong to national
minorities. The primary school completion rates for boys and girls in
these eight provinces in 1991-92 were 94.2 percent and 89.3 percent,
respectively, with girls constituting about 75 percent of dropouts from the
primary cycle. While the literacy rate for the male population of 15 years
and older in provinces was 87 percent in 1990, it was only 68 percent for
females.  Negative sociocultural attitudes among some communities
toward education of girls, the relatively poor recognition of the benefits of
education for girls, school fees which constitute a substantial proportion of
meager incomes, need to assist families with income-generating activities,
and parental hesitation to send girls to coeducational schools without
female teachers provide some of the reasons for lower enrollment and
retention rates for girls, especially those belonging to disadvantaged
population groups. The perceived lack of relevance of the school program
to the future development and occupational needs of girls also has
important bearing on attitudes to their schooling.
(e)   Inadequately planned and managed teacher training programs, both
at preservice and inservice levels, especially in poor rural areas with
relatively high levels of minority population, continue to hinder progress
towards universalization.  Nationally, 83 percent of primary school
teachers meet State-prescribed qualifications: regional disparities range
from 94 percent in Liaoning to 49 percent in Tibet. The average figure for
project counties is about 70 percent for primary school teachers and 47
percent for lower secondary. Training courses focus on content and
2 Minban teachers are community-supported teachers.



-6-
pedagogical techniques appropriate for large urban schools: few programs
offer trainees instructional methodologies suited to rural schools or
provide skills for adapting the curriculum, prescribed teaching materials,
and equipment to local conditions. Courses in multigrade teaching and
bilingual instruction are not widespread. About 37 percent of primary
school teachers are minban teachers, 88 percent of whom are in rural
areas. While significant efforts have been made to develop a training
network to periodically reorient teachers to curriculum and methodological
innovations, opportunities for inservice training for experienced teachers
in poor, remote and minority areas continue to be inadequate. Low ratios
of students to teachers (STR) bear testimony to the need to increase the
efficiency of teacher deployment and management: in project counties the
average STR for primary schools is 20.8:1 and for lower secondary
schools it is 15.5:1.
(f)   Inadequate  management capacity  for planning, implementing,
monitoring and evaluating reform programs for universalization of basic
education poses difficulties in poor counties. Several tiers of government
and administration are involved (central, provincial, county, village and
educational institution) which make management tasks complex:
appropriate structures are lacking to facilitate the systematic involvement
and assistance of the community in the planning and implementation of
primary education programs. At a number of management levels, there
are shortages of qualified and experienced planners, data-processors,
statisticians and analysts. Educational statistics and data on education
financing, on school facilities, and on staff deployment are often
incomplete or inaccurate and therefore provide insufficient information to
identify and resolve efficiency problems such as wasteful student to staff
ratios, low teaching loads, and low utilization rates of facilities and
equipment.
C.   GOVERNMENT STRATEGY, POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
1.12 The Central Government's overall approach toward education is to develop broad
principles and regulations to guide provincial and local governments in their county and
village level education services, so that they may implement the compulsory education
law using the resources available, and pursue their own targets, according to their own
means. Principles to be encouraged at the national level include efficiency, quality and
equity:
* efficiency is seen as increased cost-effectiveness in school management by
reducing high repetition and dropout rates, and adopting adequate student-
teacher ratios and teacher workloads; and by implementing better-managed
and better-conceived teacher training programs;



-7 -
* quality improvement includes the introduction of newly developed sets of
more relevant and effective books for basic education, training of teachers to
use the new text materials and provision of more preservice and improved
inservice training for teachers; and
* equity issues include State efforts to subsidize economically undeveloped
areas so that they may introduce compulsory education and to encourage the
transfer of funds from provincial to local county governments.
1.13  Government's Education Strategy for Poverty Areas.  According to the
Education Law," the most important basic law in education and effective from
September 1, 1995, it is the Government's legal responsibility to support and assist the
development of education for national minorities as well as remote and poverty stricken
areas (Article 10). In keeping with the "Outline for Reform and Development of
Education in China," the State Council issued detailed suggestions in 1994 on the
implementation and planning for universalization of basic education, especially in poor
areas, which has been undertaken on the basis of different timescales, according to the
status of economic development as indicated in the following four categories:
(a)   Category 1: cities and selected rural areas with a fairly high level of
economic development and covering 40 percent of the nation's population.
Universalization targets in these areas are expected to be achieved by
1997.
(b)   Category 2: rural areas with medium level of economic development and
covering another 40 percent of the population. This category has already
achieved universal compulsory primary education and expects to meet
nine-year targets by 2000.
(c)   Category 3:  rural areas with low levels of economic development
covering 15 percent of the country's population. For about 5 percent of
this group, in areas with a good primary education system, the nine-year
goal should be achieved by 2000. For the remaining 10 percent of this
group, efforts will be made to implement five or six years of basic
education.
(d)   Category 4: exceptionally poverty-stricken areas covering 5 percent of
the population.
1.14  In order to reach overall universalization, targets proposed by the State Council,
through SEdC, will increase nonrecurrent categorical budgetary expenditures in all
provinces with nationally designated poor counties so that they can achieve universal
basic education by the year 2000. This is called the "Basic Education Program in Poor
Areas" and funding will be used for school construction, provision of teaching equipment
and library books, and teacher and principal training. (See para 1.15 for details.) The
annual special funds allocated by the Central Government for the program will be



- 8 -
increased to Y 1.0 billion in three years. As Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Guangdong,
Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Jilin, Liaoning and Shandong have almost achieved the goal of
universalization of nine-year compulsory education, SEdC decided to implement the
program with a two-phase strategy:
•  Phase One (1995-98) focuses on Category 2 poor counties in the 12 provinces
of Anhui, Fujian, Hainan, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi,
Shaanxi, Shanxi and Sichuan. These provinces account for approximately 40
percent of China's population. There are 289 "8/7 Counties" in Phase One
with a population of some 110 million. The emphasis in Phase One is on
lower secondary schooling.
*  Phase Two (1995 through 1998 to 2000 and beyond) will focus on Category 3
counties in the nine provinces and autonomous regions of Gansu, Guangxi,
Guizhou, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Qinghai, Tibet, Xinjiang and Yunnan,
accounting for some 190 million population. There are 273 "8/7 Counties" in
Phase Two with a poor population of some 70 million. By 2000, 66 percent
of Category 3 population would have been covered, which will mean that
almost 91 percent of the nation will have nine-year compulsory education
coverage. The government's strategy for Category 4 population areas is to
include it in Phase Two and to universalize three to four-year primary
education by 2000.
1.15  Total funding required to reach these goals by the year 2000 is estimated at Y 15.0
billion. The government efforts include: (a) earmarked national funds for construction
and rehabilitation of schools in poor areas; (b) upgrading the professional qualifications
of minban teachers so that they can be converted to gongban (government supported)
teachers; (c) specially targeted funds to support payment of charges for books, meals in
boarding schools, and some transportation costs; (d) training of education managers at the
provincial and county level in methods to achieve efficiency gains by using better
resource allocation strategies and practices; and, (e) introduction of tax reforms that
broaden and deepen the base for tax collection, earmark percentages for compulsory
education, and allow for targeting of funds toward the poorer sections of the provinces.
1.16  The "regular part" of the special fund amounted to Y 200 million in 1995. The
Central Government has recently decided to provide an "additional part"3 of the special
fund. The additional resources represent a substantial increase in the fund. For example,
by 1997, the additional resources will amount to Y 800 million and are four times as large
as the regular part of the fund. The additional special fund will be used for capital,
nonrecurrent costs of improvement in school facilities, and the provision of equipment,
furniture, and books. SEdC will adopt procedures used under the proposed project in
3 "Regular part" and "additional part" are ternis now used by SEdC and will be given more formal names
as the funding starts to be disbursed.



-9-
distributing the special fund to provinces. For example, each province will submit a
proposal to SEdC, which will organize a national expert panel for reviewing the proposal.
The proposal will explain, among other things: (a) the development goals for compulsory
education; (b) resource requirements and financial feasibility; (c) the poor counties to be
included and the criteria for their inclusion (e.g., the counties should have good
management capacity and emphasize compulsory education); (d) how the special fund
will be used and distributed among the poor counties; and (e) the availability of matching
funds from provincial/prefecture/county levels (the total matching fund from provincial,
prefecture, and county levels should be two times that of the central fund). SEdC will
subsequently conduct supervision and monitoring of the utilization of the special fund in
the provinces.
1.17   Government Strategy for Minority Education. China's strategy for the
provision of education for ethnic minorities has undergone changes in the past four
decades. For instance, use of minority language as the initial medium of instruction in
primary schools has increased and Han language lessons are introduced later as a part of
bilingual teaching. Han Chinese is only fully used in later primary school grades as the
medium of instruction. The percentage of local content in primary school textbooks has
been increased, and levels of government-both local and national-support of teachers'
salaries in predominantly minority areas have been increased. Also, there has been since
the 1 970s an increased recruitment of minority teachers and school principals, and greater
efforts to train bilingual teachers.
1.18   Government policy on minority education can be seen in a number of other
systematic policy foci:
E Expanding Access through: construction, expansion and renovation of
township/village schools, teaching points and multigrade schools; mandating
universal six-year education in all minority regions or an elementary graduate
per household as a minimum requirement for remote and scattered rural
inhabitation; development of a Center4 Elementary School for every township
in each minority county and a Center Secondary School and a Literacy and
Vocational Training Center for each minority county;
*  Improving Delivery and Relevance of educational inputs by: improving
teacher selection and preparation in pedagogy, bilingual education, curriculum
revision and development of bilingual materials for minorities; and
*  Increasing the Resource Base by developing preferential policies of
increased national and provincial resource allocation targeted at basic
4 "Central" schools are generally town or county center level schools with additional faculty and funding
provided by the province or county to provide inservice teacher and principal training, local curricula
development and instructional equipment training sites.



- 10-
education in poor minority regions for specific programs to reduce repetition
and dropout rates.
1.19 Government Strategy for Promoting Education of Girls. In the "Law of the
People's Republic of China on the Protection of Rights and Interests of Women," which
became effective on April 3, 1992, the Government's policy position regarding the
education of girls is evident, seeing it as a societal responsibility:
* Schools and departments concerned shall, by implementing the relevant
regulations of the state, guarantee that women enjoy equal rights with men in
such aspects as starting school, entering a higher school, job assignment upon
graduation, conferment of academic degrees and dispatch for study abroad
(Article 15).
*  The governments, society and schools shall, in the light of the actual
difficulties of female school-age children or adolescents in schooling, take
effective measures to ensure that female school-age children or adolescents
receive compulsory education for the number of years locally prescribed
(Article 17).
1.20  In the "Education Law," the policy is: "all citizens, regardless of ethnic group,
race, sex, age, occupation, property status or religious belief, enjoy equal educational
opportunities according to law" (Article 9).
1.21  Several other measures have been taken to create a supportive environment for the
promotion of girls' education. Legal protection for the rights and interests of women and
girls is enshrined in the Compulsory Education Law and The Law Regarding the Health
Care of Mother and Infants. The State Council issued the "Outline for Women
Development in China" right before the UN Fourth Conference on Women in Beijing,
and further highlighted the importance of girls' education to women's development and
social status. Publicity drives have been initiated and the Chinese Government has
expressed its determination to keep girls' dropout rate and lack of attendance to under 2
percent. Several initiatives are being piloted in efforts to identify the best strategies:
among these are the Gansu Province project to improve primary education for girls and
disadvantaged groups; and a joint activity on the "Current Status, Issues and Strategies of
Girls' Education in the Rural Areas" conducted by research institutes in Ningxia, Gansu,
Guizhou and Qinghai Provinces. Teacher training is being strengthened, especially for
female teachers and principals. Social action in the form of financial assistance through
the "Hope Project" and the "Spring Bud Plan" illustrate national efforts to help retain
girls in school by lowering direct costs of schooling to parents.
1.22  In addition, a UNICEF-assisted project "Promoting Education of Girls in Poor
Areas," started in 1992, is being implemented in selected townships in 101 counties in
nine provinces (Anhui, Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Ningxia, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Sichuan
and Yunnan). Specific strategies adopted under the project include, amnong others,



campaigns to generate parental awareness of the benefits of girls' education and to
overcome the socioeconomic barriers hindering participation of girls in education,
mobilization of parents and community leaders in activities designed to enhance
enrollment and retention of girls in schools, further increasing the proportion of trained
female teachers and principals and incorporation into the school curriculum learning
content that would enable girls to acquire the knowledge and skills relevant to their
socioeconomic needs; specific measures implemented in minority areas of Ningxia
include establishment of single-sex schools and single-sex classes and promoting
participation of religious leaders in enrollment campaigns and school improvement
activities. Activities under the proposed project would help in enhancing enrollment and
retention of girls in the areas covered.
D. BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR
1.23   Sector Strategy. The Bank Group is in general agreement with the direction
taken by China in development of its educational system at all levels. It provides support
to this process by maintaining a dialogue on sectoral issues and options, and by
supporting selected activities which contribute to the efficiency and quality of that system
and to its relevance to national development objectives. In order to facilitate achievement
of these ends, IDA's sectoral focus is to:
*  support basic education with a strong focus on increasing access to quality
schooling for the poor, minorities and girls;
*  improve the effectiveness of teaching services including the upgrading of the
teacher training curricula;
*  assist in the design and implementation of reforms in the education sector, in
line with the "Guidelines for Development and Reform of China's Education
System," especially in seeking more equitable funding mechanisms, targeted
to basic education in poor rural areas; and
*  support institution building to increase the capacity of educational authorities
at all levels to carry out their responsibilities, especially under conditions of
increasing operational decentralization.
It is within the above context that the effort to improve and develop basic education, both
through the ongoing Educational Development in Poor Provinces (EDPP) Project
(Cr. 2339-CHA) and Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas (BEII) (Cr. 2651-CHA)
Project and the currently proposed project takes place.
1.24  Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector. In line with the above assistance
strategy, since 1981 the Bank Group has supported 16 projects in China that were either
devoted entirely to the education sector or had substantial education sector components.
The total loan and credit amount for education to date is $1,398.8 million. In the early
1980s, four successive higher education projects assisted expansion and quality



- 12-
improvements in prominent universities, mainly key universities managed by SEdC, the
television universities and the larger provincially operated universities, and supported
founding the polytechnic system that has since proliferated. Since 1985, IDA has assisted
the Government in its effort to increase provision of textbooks, upgrade lower secondary
school (LSS) teachers and improve the conditions of vocational schools. It has also
financed a project in the relatively disadvantaged province of Gansu, managed by the
provincial government, part of which addresses the education sector. This latter project
has had smooth implementation, good results and will be completed in late 1996. Most
recently, support has been given to education at the municipal level in three medium-size
cities, at the university level to key science and engineering laboratories, at the county
level in the two basic education projects that cover 12 provinces and lower secondary
school teacher training in 15 provinces.
1.25   Sector studies related to education finance were completed in 1986, 1991 and
1995. Other sector studies were done on technical/vocational education and training for
labor markets in 1987 and 1993, respectively, and informal sector work on teacher
training was carried out in 1991.  These, combined with extensive experience in
preparing and supervising projects over the past decade, provide considerable background
for identification of sectoral needs and opportunities.
1.26  Rationale for IDA Involvement. The proposed operation is consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on June 1, 1995. For the
social sectors, the CAS gives priority to the problems of the poorest areas, including basic
education and education for girls. In its focus on poverty alleviation and support for the
Government's 8/7 Plan, the Association is working in partnership with the Government to
improve the design and implementation of government efforts in reducing poverty. The
project would also be in line with the findings of the Bank Group's poverty alleviation
strategy which identifies investment in human capital, in particular targeted interventions
to the poor and vulnerable, as a key component of poverty alleviation efforts, leading to
healthier and smaller families, higher rates of adopting new agricultural technology, and
increased access to alternative off-farm employment.' The project incorporates IDA's
concern for improving the status of women in the development process, by supporting
targeted research activities and consequent interventions to increase girls' enrollments,
especially in minority areas. Implementation of the two ongoing projects in basic
education is proceeding smoothly and experience gained from them has been used in the
design of this proposed project. Through the project, IDA would deepen its support for
China's efforts to improve basic education in poor and remote areas, including those
inhabited by minority nationalities.
5 China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, Report No. 10409-CHA, June 29, 1992.



- 13 -
E. LESSONS LEARNED
1.27 Lessons from Past Experience in China. Much of the same national level
SEdC project development team and the Chinese academic advisory group which worked
on the EDPP and BEII projects is intact and continues to work on the development of the
current project. This staffing continuity has facilitated incorporation into the proposed
project design of valuable lessons learned from the development and early
implementation of the EDPP and BEII projects. Likewise, many of the Bank Group and
Chinese staff who worked on the former project now work on the latter. The lessons
include:
* Projects are better designed and implemented when they concentrate on a
reduced number of provinces, and when provincial and county authorities are
involved in their design. This is especially true for projects that assist
provincial and locally-financed institutions;
* Provincial level counterpart funding must be assured from the beginning of
project, available early and sufficient to provide necessary startup funds for
county and village civil works which account for a large percentage of the first
half of project disbursements in such education projects;
- The project oversight and policy guidance role of the Chinese Experts Panel
(CEP) has been critical in making minor but necessary adjustments in project
design, advising Bank supervision missions, and resolving implementation
problems at the provincial and subprovincial levels;
* Provincial Education Commissions (PECs) should concentrate less on
quantitative targets and more on improving the quality of the project
supported preservice and inservice teacher training;
* Provinces have tended to overly rely on early and heavy use of force accounts
for small civil works projects in locations where National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procurement procedures would have been more appropriate
and economical;
* The Association and the Government need to work together in the evaluation
of education reforms.  Work has started on developing a standardized
mechanism to measure student attendance and indicators of educational
achievement progress; and
* National coordination of technical assistance, high level training, collection of
educational and project indicators, and dissemination of lessons learned is
necessary to achieve efficiencies of scale, and countrywide coherence in the
development and expression of education policy and national standards.



- 14-
1.28  Lessons from International Experience. Project completion reports as well as
project audits undertaken by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED), for
completed education projects worldwide include a variety of important lessons
(Annex 2), which can be summarized as follows: (a) follow-up projects pursuing similar
objectives to those of previous projects help to strengthen and eventually consolidate
earlier achievements, which might otherwise falter and dissipate. Thus, follow-up
projects should be part of a long-term investment program with clearly defined objectives
based on sound sector work; (b) implementing agencies should have a strong sense of
project ownership; (c) borrowers should be committed to providing the necessary
resources to support basic education on a sustained basis; (d) project design should be
sufficiently flexible to accommodate mid-course corrections in scope, content and
approach (e) expert/advisory panels should be established to review implementation,
address implementation issues, and recommend on mid-course corrections, (f) increasing
access for poor and minority children and girls to quality primary education must be
addressed by innovative enrollment policies and student assistance programs.
1.29  The proposed project design benefited from the above lessons by incorporating
the following points: (a) the project began with a joint Bank/Borrower training course on
project design which included individuals from the preparation and implementing
agencies. The utilization of monitorable indicators was a component of the project
training course; (b) the borrower and provincial education authorities have been
responsible for organizing the participation of stakeholders at the provincial and county
levels to develop proposals based on local identification of issues and optimal solutions.
Because this is a repeater project, this process was facilitated by using experienced staff,
educational advisors and models from earlier projects; (c) a Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
has been used to assist in the design of project components and will be used during
project implementation to provide ongoing high level professional monitoring of project
implementation; (d) a county financing study and household survey has been completed
to better understand what the necessary government and nongovernment commitment is
for sustaining appropriate levels of support for basic education; and (e) a component to be
included in the project aims at supporting dissemination of previous IDA- and UNICEF-
supported action-oriented research programs that identify innovative approaches to
improving access to basic education for girls, minorities and poor children.



- 15-
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The main project objectives are to: (a) support the attainment of universal primary
education and the expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and
minority areas; and (b) build stronger institutions responsible for education delivery. The
project will contribute to the Government's poverty reduction efforts by improving the
income earning potential of nearly 8.3 million children in some of the poorer counties in
China. The project will have a direct impact on approximately 46,000 schools and
448,000 teachers and staff, and will provide varying lengths of training for approximately
138,000 teachers and education managers.
2.2   The project will support the government's efforts to make primary education
universal by the year 2000 by putting more educational inputs into teaching points,
increasing the enrollment in complete schools, expanding multigrade and multisubject
teaching in rural areas, and reducing dropout rates of minority children through improved
bilingual educational programs.
2.3   Additionally, the project will focus special attention and resources on multigrade,
girls' and bilingual education. Development of new and the strengthening of existing
schools in villages in poor, remote and often inaccessible areas calls for increased use of
multigrade teaching and the construction of single classroom schools.  Likewise,
bilingual education will be augmented through the use of specially designed teacher
training programs which will focus on the use of minority languages in Hebei, Qinghai
and Gansu Provinces. These three provinces account for the largest proportion of the
approximately 9 percent minority population in the counties to be covered by the project.
The use of minority languages in bilingual education programs in Hebei, Qinghai and
Gansu is standard with the grade level at which the switch to the national language is
made (grades 4, 7 or 10) based on percentages of the minority people in a school
catchment area, the requests of the parents and the capabilities of the teachers to offer the
bilingual curriculum. It is to overcome this latter potential and, in some cases, real
constraint that the project will support the training of more bilingual teachers. Previous
IDA-supported projects have financed the development, writing, publishing and printing
of minority language textbooks, which are being used in minority population areas served
by the project. Special staff training and international study tours are to be organized at
the national and provincial level for this bilingual education component.
2.4   Project provinces will increase participation and completion rates of girls by
continuing with measures that have proved to be successful in the past while
implementing new measures. Steps to be undertaken by all project provinces include the



- 16-
mobilization of girls by conducting house-to-house visits and awareness campaigns
directed to parents by school or village committee officials. Campaigns, using several
channels including the media, will also reflect the legal obligations of parents as set out in
the Compulsory Education Law and include guidance and counseling for families. Some
local education bureaus will work with parents and principals in order to secure
commitments termed "guarantees" which will ensure active support for increasing
enrollment and retention of girls. Other measures common to all provinces will include
the piloting of the Student Assistance Program which will have categories of funding
specifically designated for girls as stipends and towards waiver of tuition fees and free
textbooks; increasing classroom space to accommodate larger numbers of pupils resulting
from increased numbers of girls entering schools; and dissemination of best practices
based either on provincial-level research or on experiences from UNICEF or UNESCO
sponsored activities. For example, the experience and research findings drawn from the
Pilot Project on Improving Girls' Education and Disadvantaged Groups conducted by the
Gansu Institute for Educational Research will be disseminated to project counties,
incorporated into the training programs for teachers, principals and administrators, and
used to develop guidelines and evaluation indicators for girls' education.
2.5    Measures specific to the local circumstances of provinces include prevocational,
potentially income-generating, skills training in the lower secondary curricula in order to
make schooling more relevant to employment, thus providing girls with a motive for
remaining in school such as Gansu encouraging girls to participate in the work-study
programs. Girls' education programs will be developed to give special help to girls in
schools, as in the case of Anhui. Efforts to improve transition rates from primary to lower
secondary will be made by putting in place a policy change which eradicates the fifth or
sixth grade primary school completion examination requirement and moves to a policy of
automatic promotion, with some areas such as Qinghai providing special quotas for girls,
guaranteeing them places at lower secondary and senior secondary levels (largely for the
prevocational and vocational stream). Special targets will be set for campaigns to put
girls in schools, such as Qinghai having mothers as their specific targets of their
campaigns directed to parents. In areas where Hui and Sala Muslim minorities
predominate, special measures to be undertaken under the project will include
experimenting with single-sex schools and single-sex classes, as well as increasing the
number of female teachers and principals. One province (Hebei) has stressed the need to
have flexible term schedules in order to fit in with seasonal demands for extra hands such
as harvest time. The issue of household chores that keep girls away from school would
be tackled by allowing girls more flexible timetabling for attendance of classes, by
providing peer assistance with house work as well as understanding class work, and by
permitting younger siblings to accompany their sisters to school.
2.6   The following indicators will be used to monitor implementation of this
component in relation to project targets. At primary level, these are enrollment,
repetition, completion and dropout rates; at the lower secondary level the indicators will
be transition, completion and dropout rates. The actual use of funds designated for girls
in the Student Assistance Fund will be monitored.



-17-
2.7   Education for Minorities.  There are 27 project counties in three project
provinces with minorities comprising over 10 percent of the population. Among these
project provinces, Qinghai has a proportion of minorities as high as 58 percent. As
improving education for the minorities is an objective of this project, project provinces
will pay special attention to increase participation and completion rates of the minorities.
This can be achieved by continuing with measures that have proved to be successful in
the past while implementing new measures. These measures include campaigns for
implementing the Compulsory Education Law among the minorities, regular home visits
to minority families, and specific social support or welfare systems for the minorities,
such as the Hope Project and Student Assistance Program, etc. In particular, Qinghai will
provide free textbooks to the minorities and include the building of boarding schools and
tent schools for the Zang minorities in their civil works plan.
2.8   To enhance their school attendance and retention rates, project provinces will
provide prevocational, potentially income-generating and skills training courses in lower-
secondary schools and strengthen bilingual education for the non-Han speaking
minorities to increase their employment opportunities. Project counties with a small
proportion of minorities will ensure that minority educational needs will not be neglected.
2.9   A component of minority education in teaching education, in addition to bilingual
education, will be developed to enhance teaching skills of teachers of the minorities and
their awareness of the needs of the minorities. Recent research outputs that can enhance
the understanding of minority needs and teaching skills relevant to the minorities will be
disseminated and incorporated into the existing teacher training curriculum for further
strengthening and advancement of minority education. The component of training
minority personnel will also cover school principals and administrators as this will have
significant impact on school policy-making and implementation that can attend to
minority needs.  There will be specific teacher training institutions taking the
responsibility of developing minority education, such as the Minority Junior Teachers'
College of Qinghai, the Minority Training Center of Northwest Normal University in
Gansu and the Teachers' College designated for minority education in Hebei.
2.10  The impact of this component of the project can be seen from a list of indicators
in project counties with minorities comprising over 10 percent of the population, such as
enrollment rate, dropout rate and completion rate.  Specific indicators for primary
students include admission rate in Grade 1, and literacy and numeracy rates in graduation
grades 5 or 6. Specific indicators for lower secondary students include transition and
repetition rates. The actual use of funds targeted to minorities in the Student Assistance
Program will be monitored.
B. PROJECT DESIGN AND PREPARATION
2.11   Project Design. The key educational issues to be addressed by the project were
identified bv studies carried out jointly by the Association and members of the Chinese
education research community as well as from the EDPP and BEII projects. Likewise,



- 18-
identification of the key poverty intervention issues to be addressed in the project resulted
from studies carried out jointly by the Association and Chinese social scientists. These
studies were discussed with SEdC. Priorities for project focus were determined in the
course of project identification and preparation.  Special attention was given to
procedures for selecting project provinces and, more importantly, counties (including
those with substantial minority populations). Emphasis was also placed on the design of
appropriate training and management development programs, to formulation of national
seminars and to setting up of a system to carry out the innovation programs provided for
under the project. All of these topics were discussed and settled upon jointly by the
Association and Government staff during project preparation and appraisal.
2.12  The project has been designed to further develop the borrower's capacity to
prepare and implement education projects in the future, whether supported with
government funding and categorical6 grants (see paras. 1.14-1.15 for details), or donor
agency financing. Building on the sector work which informed the design of the EDPP
and BEII projects as well as the current proposed project, IDA and SEdC have prepared
seven subprojects, one for each province.
2.13   This approach will be expanded and refined for the preparation of possible future
education projects, using revised and updated project identification, coverage selection,
subproject preparation, project implementation, and monitoring instruments now being
used in the current project.  This process will also allow for the utilization and
dissemination of policies and actions which come from this project's innovation program
well beyond the confines of provinces supported by this project. Goals such as decreased
girls' dropout before completion of grade five, increased usage of bilingual teaching
materials and wider use of multigrade teaching, will take time to gain a level of general
acceptance and the program approach will provide the continuing support for such policy
development for a period longer than the life of this one project.
2.14 Borrower Involvement in Project Preparation. Based on experience with the
previous projects, SEdC organized three working groups which were instrumental in
project preparation and will be used in project implementation (para. 4.1). These groups
are: (a) a Project Working Group, comprising working level staff from SEdC's
Departments of Finance, Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO), Minority
Education, Basic Education, Equipment, Teacher Training and Supervision, which has
been responsible for organizing all project preparatory activities; (b) the Project Leading
Group, comprising the directors of departments represented in the first group and
responsible for providing guidance and coordination and resolving major implementation
issues that may arise; and (c) the Project Expert Consultative Group, comprising 7-9 non-
SEdC experts specializing in basic education, minority/bilingual education, teacher
6 Categorical funding refers to special targeted funding from the central government for school
construction and rehabilitation, and teacher training in national minority areas, national poor counties,
and former revolutionary base areas.



-19-
training, curriculum development, civil works, equipment and education management,
which advised and made suggestions on project preparation. Directors of project
implementation units from Yunnan, Shanxi and Hubei Provinces, all in the earlier EDPP
project, are members of the Project Working Group to ensure continuous input into the
development of the programs in the project-supported provinces as well as training of
new project implementation staff.
2.15  SEdC organized a project preparation stakeholder meeting for the seven project
provinces as well as national and provincial financial and planning agencies. Meeting
members agreed on the basic project design, outlined the project preparation process and
provided each of the provinces with a project proposal outline and financing format
derived from the preparation of the earlier Basic Education II project and subsequently
modified by both SEdC and the IDA preparation team. First drafts of the provincial
project proposals were received by SEdC and reviewed with the Association preparation
assistance team during a SEdC mission to Washington where the latter participated in
three weeks of training in project design, cost table preparation and project
implementation management.
2.16  During the Washington meetings, the Bank preparation team tentatively agreed to
the inclusion of the seven provinces identified by SEdC, recommended that the number
of counties in the project be set at a maximum of 125 and be limited to counties identified
by the State Council Leading Group for Poverty Reduction as National Level Poor
Counties (8/7 Counties from the National 8/7 Plan to Reduce Poverty 1994-2000).
Project preparation teams from all seven provinces took part in a May 1995 project
design study tour to Hubei Province to review the progress in two pilot counties of the
EDPP. SEdC and IDA project preparation teams took part in the mid-term review of the
EDPP project and incorporated lessons learned from the first period of implementation of
that project (para. 1.27).
2.17  Local Participation in Project Design. During project preparation, Chinese
education authorities and IDA staff systematically interviewed selected parents,
grandparents and village authorities from some 17 townships and villages in poor
counties of Qinghai and Gansu Provinces to learn local reaction to, and gather additional
information that might inform, the tentative project design. A specific effort was made to
solicit input from people in minority areas with a view toward enhancing the project
responsiveness to the needs and aspirations of children in these areas. The findings from
the interviews can be summarized as follows:
*  Only by acquiring literacy and numeracy skills will the children be able to
escape the poverty with which their parents/grandparents have had to live;
*  Basic education in rural poor areas is primarily to acquire skills necessary to
contribute to the local economy and secondarily to provide an educational
foundation for higher education;



- 20 -
*  Mastery of national language is essential in providing the ability of school-
leavers to move from poverty areas, even within a province, to where the jobs
are;
*  Initial instruction in the mother language is important to retain awareness of
minority culture and to be able to talk to family members;
*  The project should place first and strong emphasis on eliminating dangerous
schools and providing good new classrooms which will attract children and
good new teachers to the schools;
*  Increasing teachers' qualifications, especially in bilingual education skills, is
also important;
*  Of lesser importance but still necessary is the provision of school furniture
and teaching equipment;
*  It is important for the curriculum to include stories of local heroes, local
model citizens and the history and stories of the local culture; and
* Education of girls is important so that they can learn life skills that enable
them to contribute to the local economy.
2.18   Components of the project (e.g., increased provision of bilingual teacher training,
procurement of tent schools, increased emphasis on local content in minority language
textbooks, training of minority headmasters, student assistance programs especially
focused on girls, increased girls' enrollment targets, etc.) have been especially designed
for the small number of minority children (about 7 percent of the total) in the project.
Further, provincial and county selection criteria contain a weighting system that ensured
that indigenous people will benefit from the project. Targeting project investments away
from county municipalities and toward townships and villages further assures increased
project coverage of indigenous peoples for it is in these areas that they generally live.
Additionally, the previous basic education project, BEII, supported the development and
distribution of minority language textbooks and teachers' guides. This development
work specifically focused on strengthening the already existing local content portion of
the minority language textbooks especially in language, history and geography. The local
content portion includes minority cultural stories, heroes and history. Through continued
support to teacher training and free distribution to poor children of these minority
language textbooks and teachers' guides, the project will continue the Association's
earlier efforts to expand access to quality basic education for minority children.



- 21 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.1   The project will, over a period of five years, provide assistance through: (a) an
institutional component directly supporting the delivery of educational inputs (i.e., civil
works, equipment and book procurement, teacher and administrator training) at the
primary and lower secondary schools in the participating provinces; (b) a management
component providing for better operational control of the educational system at the
school, county and provincial level; and (c) a central component that would provide
national level management training and support dissemination of the good results of
previous educational experiments, and a research project to study student assessment and
establish a CEP. The latter component aims at supporting national capacity building and
coordination of activities common to the project provinces by strengthening SEdC's
ability to implement and replicate basic education projects. The student assessment
study, dissemination program and the student assistance program will in part be carried
out at the provincial level. A rough percentage distribution of project base-cost financing
will be: civil works-64 percent, equipment, books and furniture-24 percent, and
technical assistance- 12 percent. A rough percentage distribution of project financing by
education level will be: primary education-57 percent, lower secondary school-40
percent, management-3 percent. The main features of each component are described
below.
A. THE PROJECT AREA
3.2   Project Area and Selection Criteria. The project would be implemented in 124
counties in the seven provinces of Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Henan, Hebei, Jilin and
Qinghai. The main criteria used in selecting the provinces were the number of poor
counties [counties identified as being National Poor Counties in the State Council's
"National 8/7 Poverty Reduction Plan (1994-2000)"] in the province, level of teacher
qualifications, percentage of minority population, primary school completion rate, and
girls' enrollment (see Annexes 3 and 4 for list of provinces, counties and key provincial
benchmark indicators).  The main criteria used in selecting project counties were:
inclusion on the national or provincial list of poor counties; relative concentration of
minority population among overall county population; poverty indicators such as rural
income per capita, public expenditure for education as a percentage of provincial
expenditure and books per pupil at primary level; and teaching and management needs
such as percentages of repetition, primary enrollment, and girls' enrollment, transition
rate from primary to secondary education, and percentage of qualified teachers.
(Selection criteria and their numerical weighting can be found in Annex 5.)
3.3   Project Counties. The project counties comprise 21 percent of the 592 national-
level poverty counties and have a total population of about 59 million, of which 15.6



- 22 -
million are considered poor by the Chinese Government. This is approximately 16
percent of the number of people the World Bank estimates remain in poverty in China or
20 percent of the number estimated by the Government. The primary and lower
secondary schools in project counties include about 8.3 million students. With the
completion of this basic education project, IDA will have supported the basic education
programs of 60 percent of China's national level poverty counties.
3.4   Sub-County Focus. As the primary focus of the project is to build up education
capacity in poor areas of China and is restricted to national poverty counties, an important
consideration is the targeting of project investments at levels within counties where the
greatest poverty exists. Earlier Bank Group sector work indicated that this is generally at
the town and village levels outside the county center. Therefore, project investments will,
for the most part, be made at the town and village and not the county, city or municipality
levels. With certain exceptions discussed below, project investments and training will be
focused at the subcounty level.
3.5   Sparsely Populated Counties. In Qinghai Province, several of the project-
supported counties have very low population density and are largely inhabited by
nomadic groups that move seasonally with their yak and sheep herds. During project
preparation, an IDA mission visited several of these counties to better understand the
special requirements of providing educational services to the (largely minority) children
in these counties. The local county and provincial authorities recommended that the
project support the buying of tent schools, which would be set up where the nomadic
group spent their late spring, summer and early autumn grazing, while at the same time
continuing support for county municipal schools in locations where the herds, and
children, winter. International experience has shown that locating schools close to where
children live, especially young children and primary school-aged girls, is important to
increasing school enrollments. The combination of movable and permanent schools
offers a solution that has been effective in China. Therefore, in some Qinghai counties
some educational inputs will be designated for county municipalities.
3.6   Impact on Nonproject Counties. Because the need for increased educational
inputs manifestly exists in poor counties not covered by the project, the provincial
governments of Hebei, Anhui and Gansu have provided financing and action plans for
educational inputs to national poverty counties not supported by the project. (See
Annex 6 for the levels of committed provincial funding for nonproject counties). At
negotiations assurances were obtained that participating provinces will. (a) implement
acceptable programs for nonproject counties designed to ensure the continued
achievemeni of acceptable educational targets in these counties during the
implementation of the project; (b) monitor these programs on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Association, and (c) prepare and furnish to the Borrower for
forwarding to IDA at project mid-term a report on this monitoring.
3.7  In this fashion the IDA credit inputs, coupled with the provinces' own financing
for nonproject supported counties, will provide a broader program approach to strengthen



- 23 -
basic education in all of a province's poor counties. This approach will also increase the
institutional capacity of the SEdC and other provinces to prepare further poverty-focused
basic education projects.
B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Institutional Component (Base cost $142.5 million)
3.8   This component will include facilities upgrading, instructional equipment, and
staff upgrading.  Training in this component relates directly to training classroom
teachers, school principals, trainers and local education administrators to provide better
instruction in and leadership of the education institutions at the provincial, county and
village levels.
3.9   Facilities Upgrading (Base cost $94.9 million). The project will finance civil
works including renovation, rehabilitation, some necessary new construction of primary
and lower secondary schools, and the procurement of a small number of tent schools. Of
the 26 million square meters (mi2) of primary and lower secondary school premises now
existing in the 124 counties to be assisted in the project, about 5 percent is in such poor or
dangerous condition that complete replacement may be necessary, while another 4
percent requires extensive repairs. Lesser repairs, needed for a further 7 percent of the
existing facilities, will be paid for entirely from project government counterpart funds.
The buildings in the worst condition are generally old, decayed timber or timber and
adobe structures, whose renovation, even where practicable, would not be cost effective.
Newer school buildings are, typically, three-story concrete frame and brick structures
generally planned and built in compliance with SEdC space planning and construction
guidelines.
3.10   Schools in the project will also require an additional 1.57 million m2 of facilities
to adequately accommodate SEdC's plans for nine-year basic education goals.
3.11   Architectural and engineering design work for buildings construction and repair
has been undertaken, based on SEdC's space norms and construction guidelines, which
are cost effective and satisfactory to the Association. Construction will be handled by
county construction bureaus or companies with the support of the provincial construction
departments or-where capabilities at the county level are inadequate-entirely by the
latter.
3.12   The special characteristics and needs of the nomadic peoples in Qinghai have
resulted in project support for tent schools in the high plateau areas frequented by yak and
sheep herdsmen (para. 3.5). The tent school includes a one-room classroom with
blackboard, heating stove and chairs and desks, and a teacher's living tent. These tent
schools have been designed by the local provincial education construction units taking
into consideration local customs and practice (nomadic families live in similar tents),
portability and local construction capability. The project will support procurement of 40
such tent schools.



- 24 -
3.13  Implementation of the civil works portion of the project will be phased over five
years and will be integrated with that of such essentially related activities as the
procurement of teaching equipment and furniture and the training of teachers. In the
phasing process, priority will be given to the replacement of dangerous structures.
School maintenance plans will be prepared annually for organizing maintenance of the
primary and lower secondary schools assisted by this project. The provinces furnished
acceptable maintenance plans for project schools including funding levels for the duration
of the project at negotiations.
3.14 Instructional Equipment, Furniture, and Books (Base cost $36.2 million).
The project will upgrade the instructional equipment in those schools with currently
incomplete sets of equipment. The majority of schools in the project have not received
any equipment in the last 10 years. Because the emphasis has been on building and
repairing schools, poor counties find themselves at a great disadvantage in terms of
school equipment. This fact creates serious discrepancies between the kind of teaching
that takes place in more affluent places and the rote memory/passive teaching one sees in
small village schools where there are no posters, maps, or simple measuring devices or
materials to conduct the simple electricity and optics experiments included in the
curriculum.
3.15  The project will attempt to decrease these disparities by upgrading those schools
with incomplete equipment kits to Standard Three level, and similarly to upgrade existing
Standard Three schools to Standard Two. SEdC classifies equipment needs ("Standard
Levels") by school size, centrality and teacher training responsibility; conducts periodic
surveys to assess current levels and new procurement needs; and has, for this project,
identified specific requirements for project-supported schools. Equipment lists have been
prepared for the project by SEdC and reviewed and approved by the CEP using criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Association. Key central schools in project-supported
counties will be the basis of an inservice training program in equipment utilization.
Teachers in key schools will train other teachers and organize science clubs and science
fairs. Library books will be provided to both primary and lower secondary schools.
3.16  Staff Upgrading (Base cost $11.4 million). An extensive program of staff
upgrading, largely incountry, will be provided under the project. Human resource
development is central to the success of the project. Currently, the design and delivery of
appropriate initial and inservice training for teachers and administrators suffer from an
overreliance on one-time initial training, too exclusive a faith in the efficacy of
correspondence education without appropriate and interactive social phases, a lack of
appropriate models, networks and structures to reach out to the poorest and most remote
schools, and an emphasis on program content that is at best a proxy for the real skills,
knowledge and expertise needed by teachers and administrators.
3.17  Under the project, nearly 76,000 person-years of incountry training for
approximately 138,000 participants will be carried out through one-year and short-term
inservice courses. A limited number of study tours will be provided in such areas as



-25 -
girls', bilingual and multigrade education as well as student assessment. In setting
itineraries for the study tours, priority will be given to selecting domestic locations that
are good examples of innovative policies or activities although some international visits
may be considered if better examples exist abroad. [See Annex 8 for a detailed Technical
Assistance (TA) Plan.] Attention has been given in the design of the Terms of Reference
(TORs) for the training programs to: (a) duration of professional development; (b) the
content and processes of programs; and (c) the style, pace and mode of delivery.
3.18   Five major groups of staff will be upgraded: (a) elementary and lower secondary
teachers; (b) principals of primary and lower secondary schools, including those in
remote and rural areas and those facing challenges of bilingual or multicultural education;
(c) administrators at local, provincial and national levels; (d) technicians and librarians in
schools and colleges; and (e) trainers themselves.
3.19   Teachers and administrators will receive in-service modes of training delivery,
with content and processes of both types to be reviewed, updated and tested for their
direct relevance to the work tasks of participants. Special efforts will be made during the
life of the project to offer an initial qualification to the group of teachers currently
teaching without qualifications.
3.20  Improving the quality of teacher training is essential to keep up with the efforts of
universalizing basic education. In addition to strengthening teachers' subject areas,
special attention will be paid to improve the quality of training by: (a) providing teachers
with sufficient understanding in psychology of learning and children's psychological
development for developing teachers' capacity of conducting student-centered leaming
activities, (b) providing a component of gender education and minority education to
enhance teachers' awareness of their needs, and (c) placing emphasis on teaching
methods, especially those relevant to rural and minority education. Moreover, research
outputs related to gender and minority education will be incorporated into the teacher
training courses and materials to keep teachers informed of the latest development in
these areas. Project provinces will keep track of the needs for the provision of teachers
specializing in various subject areas that emerge in the course of educational expansion;
and modify the training targets accordingly.
3.21  Inservice training will include courses in: (a) academic qualification of current
teachers; (b) certification of current teachers by upgrading current skills; (c) multigrade
teaching; (d) bilingual teaching; (e) laboratory teacher training; (f) librarian training;
(g) teaching methodology; and (h) principal training, especially of minority principals.
Management Improvement Component (Base cost $1.2 million)
3.22   This component will develop management capabilities for the education system at
the central, provincial and institutional levels through staff training, the provision of
equipment and expert services. It will include three subcomponents: (a) the training of
local education management authorities; (b) the training of local project implementation
authorities; and (c) the development of an education information management system.



- 26 -
3.23  Local Education Management Training. The capacity of the education offices
in the seven project provinces and counties to deal with education management will be
enhanced through extensive incountry training. Training will be provided in modem
techniques and methods of education management and resource utilization, and cover
development of appropriate policies and problem-solving skills, especially for those
problems prevalent in remote, rural, poor, and minority areas.  Additionally, this
subcomponent will provide support for training provincial level education planners.
Training will focus on identifying and assessing the changing patterns of social demand
and appropriate types and quality of education delivery systems to respond to China's
rapid economic and social development. The training will focus on the county and
prefecture levels and will include workshops (with SEdC participation) for education
managers, administrators, and planners. The training will include study of international
experience, advanced planning techniques and methods focused on the specific
requirements of each province, local skills building, and the use of computers and
software for relevant planning models.
3.24  Project Management Training.  This subcomponent will develop project
implementation capacity in each participating county including training in project
implementation in civil works, procurement, project launch, accounting, and project
monitoring. The training takes into consideration the experience of the Association's two
earlier basic education projects as well as other Association-supported provincial-based
education projects. Each province has established a project steering committee and
working group to train county staff, and a training program with timing of activities and
including required provincial and interprovincial workshops and necessary local
specialist services.
3.25 Education Management Information System. An education management
information system (EMIS) has been established in the provincial education conmmissions
(PECs) in almost all the provinces in China. This project will support establishing an
EMIS in the PEC and participating counties of all project-supported provinces using
previously established SEdC standards for hardware and software procurement as well as
training. Training for the EMIS operators and the end-users will be scheduled according
to the timing of hardware procurement and software development and will cover
traditional software and hardware training, data collection, processing and other related
areas such as surveys, sampling and advanced techniques of statistical applications;
advanced methods of education planning and analysis and applications of relevant
computer software. While some training will be carried out at the center, experience in
the EDPP project suggests that individual provinces can be expected to carry out the bulk
of the training using local resources and local staff. Therefore, the current proposed
project will increase over previous projects the amount of local training that is carried out
at the provincial level. SEdC standards will be used in the training and equipment
procurement.



- 27 -
The Central Component (Base cost $4.7 million)
3.26 The central component will: (a) provide national level management training for
provincial trainers, education managers and administrators and project implementation
staff including a limited number of study tours; (b) support a dissemination program
which would disseminate the good results of previous educational experiments; (c) carry
out a national level study of student assessment; (d) monitor the most efficient way to
establish a student assistance program; and (e) support a CEP that will coordinate and
oversee the central component activities in cooperation with the Provinces, and SEdC.
The student assessment study, dissemination program and the student assistance program
will in part be carried out at the provincial level.
3.27 Management Training
(a)   Education Management. Administrators at the provincial, county, and
township level will participate in extensive incountry training in education
management and resource utilization, and development of policies and
problem-solving skills, especially for problems prevalent in remote, rural,
poor and minority areas.  Training of provincial level staff will be
provided at the national level. These administrators will then train the
subprovincial level administrators, which will take place at the provincial
level and below.
(b)   Project Management.  Project managers of  Bank Group-supported
projects require training at all levels to ensure smooth project
implementation. SEdC will need to work with each province to develop a
training program for the provincial, county, township and, if possible,
village level project implementation units in civil construction, equipment,
book and furniture procurement, teacher training, disbursement and all
other relevant training for project implementation.  At negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Borrower will carry out national level
training programs in accordance with an action plan acceptable to IDA.
3.28  Dissemination Program.  The dissemination program  will focus on the
documentation, dissemination, piloting and evaluation of previously supported
educational experiments and pilot projects. Past experience in Bank Group-supported
projects indicates inadequate efforts in dissemination of useful results or examples of
successful experiments, and the dissemination program aims to resolve this problem. The
Dissemination Program will also support a limited number of research studies such as
those listed in Annex 9. The dissemination program will be monitored by the CEP, but
largely administered and implemented at the provincial level.  (See Annex 9 for
implementation  guidelines.)   At negotiations, SEdC  furnished the preliminary
dissemination program plans for approval by the Association.
3.29  Chinese Experts Panel.  A CEP has been established to provide ongoing
guidance and advice to SEdC and the provinces on project implementation and issues



- 28 -
related to the project. The CEP will administer the national level dissemination program
and monitor any of the national level research activities supported by the project, and
monitor the implementation of provincially administered student assistance programs and
report to SEdC and the provinces on their observations. The Terms of Reference (TOR)
for the CEP were finalized at appraisal and include: (a) the responsibilities of the panel;
(b) qualification of panel members; (c) panel activities; (d) the panel work plan; and
(e) outcomes of panel work. The TOR include information on the plans and a budget for
a Secretariat that will support the daily work of the Panel (see Annex 10 for TOR).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CEP would be maintained with TORs and
resources acceptable to the Association.
3.30  Student Assistance Programs. As a subcomponent of this project, a student
assistance program will be piloted in all of the project counties. Between approximately
I and 5 percent of the counterpart funds of the various project provinces will be allocated
to this subcomponent. The counterpart funds for this subcomponent will be put into a
trust fund and the interest proceeds from the trust fund will be used to provide assistance
to approximately 34,000 primary and lower-secondary students from poor backgrounds.
Such students will not receive cash payment. Depending on their need, they will receive
varying amounts of reduction in their payment to school for textbook costs,
miscellaneous school fees, and other schooling-related costs. While observing the
general guidelines of SEdC, the project provinces will develop their own guidelines for:
(a) eligibility for assistance and selection procedure; (b) targeting and assistance (for
female and minority students and for primary education); (c) financing of the trust fund;
and (d) management and monitoring of the program. It is estimated that, at the primary
level, the subcomponent will cover between 6.4 and 27.7 percent of the poor students in
the project counties annually.
3.31   The project provinces are expected to: (a) use a higher proportion (e.g., 60 to 70
percent) of the interest proceeds from the trust fund on primary students; (b) give a higher
priority to poor female and minority students, especially in counties with relatively low
female and minority participation in compulsory education; (c) consider the use of a
small part of the central compulsory education special fund as seed money for the
program; and (d) develop a program plan for 1996-2000 (to indicate the coverage of poor
students over time and the financing sources, including the trust fund, the Hope
Foundation, work-study program and production in school, etc.). The central component
of this project will monitor and evaluate this program.
3.32  Pupil Learning  Achievement Study.   Information  on  pupil learning
achievements can provide a qualitative indicator to assess system performance both
educationally and economically. It provides a method for assessing the efficiency with
which government and local resources for education are utilized. If pupils achieve
curriculum objectives such as goals set for literacy and numeracy, then the system may be
said to be working well. Other measures from which inferences are made relative to
system efficiency include data on teacher qualifications, enrollment rates, completion and
repetition rates. Because national data on primary school learning achievements are not



- 29 -
available, other measures can be used for providing baseline information in the project.
These include enrollment rates, first grade repetition rates, dropout rates, elementary and
lower secondary school completion rates, transition rates from primary to secondary
school, all of which are disaggregated by gender; pupil-teacher ratios, number of
complete primary schools, and teacher qualification rates. Measures that indicate how the
system serves minorities are admission rates for primary and lower secondary schools.
Number of teaching sites available is also taken as a positive mark in terms of providing
access to the early stages of schooling for those living in remote areas including the rural
poor, minority groups, and nomads.
3.33   The project will conduct a research study that will examine the various existing
pupil learning achievement schemes currently being used in China, and make
recommendations on the most effective scheme/s to be followed in the project. The
research study will be carried out by educational research units in the seven provinces
with the assistance of a Chinese national level research institution or university. The CEP
will supervise and provide oversight for this research study and the provincial pilot
activities that result from the study's recommendations. A progress report of this study
will be available by mid-term with final results at the end of the project.
Environmental Aspects and Program Objective Categories
3.34  No negative environmental impact from the project is foreseen (the project is
rated as "C"). Likewise, no resettlement or land acquisition is foreseen in that all new
civil works will be rehabilitation or repair of schools on existing school sites. Improved
access to and quality of basic education will enhance the ability of the poor to take
advantage of the opportunities presented by economic growth, either in their own
counties or areas of faster economic development. Improved overall access to education
will increase girls' enrollments. The project, through its targeted training programs, will
increase the numbers of women teachers and principals and thus encourage enrollment
and retention of girls in schools. It has been shown that improved quality of education in
general also increases the retention of girls, with resultant economic and social benefits.
Special attention has been paid, through a participatory process, to design the project so
as to ensure that the minority beneficiaries fully benefit under the project, in accordance
with the requirements of the Bank Group's Operational Directive 4.20 (see paras. 2.11
and 2. 16).
3.35   Parental participation in the design of the project, especially in minority areas was
an element of project preparation. Village school committees on which parents sit are
important in supporting many school activities, including organizing school construction
and repairs, payment of minban teachers, ensuring that all children enroll in school and
introduction of local content into the teaching curriculum. Parental participation in their
children's schools can be seen through direct and indirect means. Direct participation of
parents can be seen by their involvement in meetings, usually two or three times every
term, to discuss students' studies and extracurricular activities at school. During these
meetings, parents can provide suggestions and comments to the school administration on



-30 -
issues of import to them as parents. Teachers also make approximately 20 visits each
term to homes to discuss with the parents the child's study program and performance.
This provides parents with another opportunity to have input into their child's learning
experience. Indirect means of communication with parents occur through mailings to
parents to keep them informed of issues so that if there are common problems the parents
can meet with school officials to work toward resolution. It will be important for village
school committees to continue to function during the life of the project and contribute to
the success of the project implementation. The CEP should, on their regular site visits,
meet with village school committees to ensure that they continue to contribute to the
implementation of the project at the school level. The CEP will report to Bank
supervision missions on the quality and quantity of parental participation in the village
school committees and the committee's contribution to the implementation of the project.
There will be an annual review as well as the mid-term and final project completion
reviews that will report on parental participation in the project.
C. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.36  The project includes activities and processes aimed at strengthening national,
provincial and local monitoring and evaluation capacity. At the national level, SEdC
assisted the Association in the identification of an appropriate set of indicators, including
literacy and numeracy, which will help track achievement of educational goals. A CEP
comprising specialists in assessment, student financial aid, civil works, teacher education
and project evaluation, will be set up whose responsibilities will include project
supervision and providing advice on project implementation. The Panel will represent
the highest professional body in the project responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
professional and quality dimensions of project activities. At provincial, prefecture and
county levels, the project will include personnel training linked with the establishment or
upgrading of Educational Management Information Systems. The purpose of this
component is to build local capacity in data collection and analysis in order to monitor
and evaluate the progress of the project components as well as to support general
monitoring and evaluation capabilities in the provincial education systems. Provincial
education research institutes have already developed, in partnership with county
education bureaus and selected pilot schools, specific numeracy and literacy performance
indicators, satisfactory to the Association, that will be monitored under the project (see
Annex ).
3.37  Project Implementation Targets.  Project implementation targets for both
national and provincial level activities are contained in project implementation plans and
are based on existing, verified baseline data (see Annex 3 and 4). These targets are both
2
input targets (e.g., student: teacher ratios, numbers of teachers trained, m of dangerous
building eliminated, etc.) and output targets (e.g., lowered dropout rates in early primary
years, increased transition rates of girls to lower secondary school, increased number of
qualified teachers, literacy and numeracy rates, etc.). The provinces' capability to
annually collect and analyze data at the provincial and county levels will be enhanced by
the project-supported Educational Management Information Systems-including



-31 -
hardware procurement, software development and utilization training. (Such systems
have been put in place in 12 provinces by previous IDA-supported projects. Standards
developed during earlier IDA-supported projects and now accepted and set by the SEdC
are being used for the hardware, software and training.) Reports based on the data
collection and analysis will be available for the mid-term review, initial preparation of the
project completion report, and at the closing of the project. All targets are the result of
discussions between provincial and national education commissions and the Association
and are based on the development and early implementation experience of the EDPP and
BEII projects.
D. PROJECT COSTS
3.38  The project cost is estimated at $191.8 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of $28.9 million equivalent, excluding taxes and duties. Project
costs are summarized by component in Table 3.1 and by category in Table 3.2. (See
Annex 11 for detailed tables.)
3.39  Unit Costs. Base costs are expressed in July 1995 prices. Civil works costs are
based on construction of similar schools in 14 pilot counties in 1994.  Costs of
equipment, books and materials are based on contracts for similar items awarded recently.
Technical assistance costs for internationally recruited experts include costs of salaries,
allowances and airfares, and are based on 1994 SEdC experience. Technical assistance
costs for local training are based on Spring 1995 actual costs provided by SEdC.
3.40  Contingency allowances have been estimated as follows. For local expenditures,
10.5 percent for 1996, 8.5 percent for 1997, 7.0 percent for 1998, 6.5 percent for 1999
and 2000, and 6.2 percent thereafter; and for foreign expenditures, 2.5 percent for 1996-
2001.
E. FINANCING PLAN
3.41  IDA will finance $100 million equivalent, and the provinces, local municipalities
and counties $91.8 million. The credit will cover all the foreign exchange requirements
and about 45 percent of local costs. The project's financing plan is given in Table 3.3.
The proposed credit will be made available to the project provinces at an annual interest
rate of 1.2 percent or less. The provincial governrments' debt service obligation for the
total credit will be negligible. For instance, based on actual provincial revenues, the debt
service obligation for the total credit would be only 0.26 percent of 1994 provincial
revenues. At negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Borrower that it will make
a part of the proceeds of the Credit available to participating provincial governments for
their Education Programs on the following terms: repayment over 20 years (with 5 years
grace), interest at 1.2 percent per year. The provincial governments will bear the foreign
exchange risks on those proceeds. Each participating province will allocate the Credit
proceeds to its counties, as far as possible on a grant basis, otherwise on terms at least
as favorable as those terms on which the province receives the funds from the central
government.



- 32 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign    Bac
Local    Fomeign    Total    Local  Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
Y        ~Y million                   S million         (percent)  (percent)
Institutional Component (IC)
Facilities Upgrading              633.9    153.8    787.7        76.4    18.5     94.9        20       64
Instructional Equipment/
Books/Fumiture                  258.9      42.0    300.9       31.2     5.0     36.2        14       24
Staff Development                  94.6       -        94.6      11.4     -       11.4        -         8
Subtotal Institutional Component   987.4    19S.8    1,183.2    119.0   23.5    142.5     17       96
Management Component
Management Training                  1.3      -         1.3       0.2     -        0.2        -         -
Expanding Education MIS              1.8      7.0       8.8       0.2    0.8       1.0        80        1
Subtotal Management Component   3.1       7.0      10.1       0.4    0.8       12         69        1
Central Component
National Training                    -        1.9       1.9       -       0.3      0.3       100        -
Research Dissemination Program     10.7       0.2      10.9       1.3     -        1.3        2         1
Stipend Program                    22.9       -        22.9       2.7     -        2.7                  2
StudyTours                           -        2.1       2.1       -       0.3      0.3       100        -
Experts Panel                        -        0.7       0.7       -       0.08     0.08      100
Studies                              -        0.2       0.2       -       0.03     0.03      100        -
Subtotal Central Component     33.6       5.1      38.7       4.0    0.7       4.7        13        3
Total Base Cos5               L024.1    207      12320      123A    2Q       148A        170       100
Physical Contingencies             102.4      20.8    123.2       12.3    2.6      14.9       17.0      10
Price Contingencies                225.7      11.0    236.7       27.2    1.3    28.5         5.0       19
Total ProictCosts             13522    2397    1.591.9      129    22    121.            15        122



-33 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
Foreign     Base
Local    Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign      Total    Exchange    Costs
-------- (Y million)       -      -          million3            (percent)  (peent)
Investmnent Costs
A. Civil Works                             633.9       153.8   787.7         76.4    18.5        94.9        20          64
B. Fumiture                                 53.4         -       53.4         6.4      -          6.4         -           4
C. Equipment
I. Equipment School                     144.8        42.0   186.8         17.5      5.0       22.5        22          15
2. Equipment MIS                          1.8         7.0      8.8          0.2     0.8         1.0       80           1
Subtotal Equipmnent                    146i6         4j     16 217 7u              i          25                     16
E. Books                                    60.7         -       60.7         7.3      -          7.3         -           S
F. Technical Assistance
I. Teacher Training                      94.6          -      94.6         11.4      -         11.4         -          8
2. Project Management Training             1.3         -        1.3         0.2      -          0.2         -           -
3. National Tech. Asst.                    -           2.6      2.6         -       0.3         0.3       100
4.StudyTours                               -           2.1      2.1          -       0.3        0.3       100
Subtotal Technical Assistance           22            4.7   100.6        IL L                 .122                     I
F. National Level Activities                33.6         0.4    34.0          4.0      0.1        4.1        34           3
Total Baseline Costs               1024.11       2L    1232.0         J23.A    2,Q        14i8         17        l9
Physical contingencies                     102.4        20.8   123.2         12.3      2.6       14.9        17          10
Price contingencies                       225.7         11.0   236.7         27.2      1.3       28.5         5          19
TotaProietCosts                    13522        23.   1.591.9         162    2.2          191.         i         122
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Local                Foreign                  Total
Chinese Government Sources                             91.8                     -                    91.8
IDA                                                    71.2                   28.8                  100.0
IQIal                                            163.0Q                                        122
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND AFFORDABILITY
3.42   The project will partially finance school-based activities at the village, township,
county and provincial level, activities which are embedded within and support the key
national education policy of achieving universal 9-year education by the year 2000. The



-34 -
moderate level of IDA financing for the project (approximately 52 percent) and the
annual levels of counterpart funding necessary for the project as a ratio of the actual 1995
provincial and county education budgets (0.89 and 3.3 percent, respectively, on average)
increase both the chances for sustainability and affordability of the project activities.
Even during 1997, when the highest annual disbursements can be expected (i.e.,
35 percent of total disbursements), average county level counterpart funding will only be
4.7 percent of the projected 1997 education budgets. Additionally, the source of
provincial counterpart funding is balanced and sustainable-on average approximately 57
percent from the county and 43 percent from the province and prefecture level. Likewise,
the poverty reduction focus of the project is central to the Government's 7-year plan to
eliminate absolute poverty by the year 2000, a plan that specifically aims at upgrading
education and literacy in backward and poor areas. Built into the project are maintenance
costs for schools, classrooms and equipment procured under the project, equipment
procurement, technical assistance and training to develop a planning-enhancing MIS
system. One component of the project, the dissemination program, specifically supports
piloting results of policy-focused research and experiments in areas of increased
efficiency in school administration. The training of approximately 138,000 teachers and
school managers builds and strengthens existing and new human resource capacity which
will remain in place long after the end of the project. (See Annex 12 for detailed data.)
3.43   The financial sustainability of the project is assessed by comparing the projected
total recurrent costs of compulsory education in project counties in 2001 with the
projected recurrent budgets for compulsory education in these counties in that year. Total
recurrent cost in 2001 is the sum of the total regular recurrent costs of personnel and
nonpersonnel inputs in 2001 and the total annual recurrent cost implication of the project.
The total annual recurrent costs implication of the project is equal to the sum of the
annual costs needed to maintain the effectiveness of project investments in school
buildings, equipment, furniture, and technical assistance. In this analysis, the annual
costs of maintenance of an education input is estimated to be the product of a coefficient
for that input and the project investment in that input. The coefficient will vary across
education inputs and across project counties. It is between 2 and 3 percent for school
buildings, between 3 and 4 percent for equipment, between 1 and 2 percent for furniture,
and between 0.1 and 0.3 percent for technical assistance. The projected recurrent budgets
in 2001 were estimated on the basis of the actual recurrent expenditure in 1994 and a
historical growth rate.
3.44  During appraisal, the analysis showed that the project was not sustainable in two
of the seven provinces. The development targets and project size for the counties in these
two provinces were therefore reduced. Though the project appeared to be sustainable for
the counties in a third province, the recurrent budget in 2001 was based on a somewhat
optimistic growth rate; the development targets and project size were also reduced for this
province. The project was found to be sustainable for the counties in the other four
provinces.



- 35 -
3.45   The final results of the analysis are incorporated in the revised feasibility reports
prepared by the provincial representatives. The total annual recurrent cost implications of
the project investment have been found to be a small percentage (projected 0.5 percent) of
the projected 2001 total recurrent costs at the provincial level. The aggregate results for
the project counties are given in Annex 13. The mission expects the project-related
recurrent costs to be borne by the project counties to be manageable.



- 36 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. MANAGEMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1   National Level Implementation. SEdC, through the Central Component, will
implement national level project activities in which each province has a shared
involvement (see para. 3.26). These activities will include: national level training,
foreign study tours and overseas study, project reporting, the research and dissemination
program and project studies. All national level activities will be implemented by the
Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and other appropriate SEdC technical
departments, using technical and administrative resources which are familiar to the
Association and have proved satisfactory in the past. FILO, in order to fulfill the national
development goals of the project, will monitor and supervise the project's
implementation goals and make necessary supplementary changes in management of the
project when necessary. FILO was formed in 1981 to implement the first University
Development Project (Ln. 2021-CHA and Cr. 1167-CHA) and has extensive experience
in the technical aspects of project execution. The aspects of implementation devolved to
provincial educational bureaus will include development of the education management
information system (EMIS) at that level, with coordination of FILO and the Educational
Management Information Center (EMIC) of SEdC.
4.2   The SEdC's responsibilities in project implementation would be increased under
this project, in view of its growing capabilities and experience with IDA-financed
operations. Specifically, SEdC will assume responsibility for:
(a)   carrying out of national level training activities (including a limited
number of study tours and overseas training programs) in accordance with
an action plan acceptable to the Association;
(b)   coordination and oversight of project implementation carried out at the
national, provincial, prefectural and county levels;
(c)   review of goods and works procurement procedures to make sure they are
being carried out in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA);
(d)   carrying out of periodic supervision, together with the Provincial
authorities, of action plan implementation at the provincial, prefectural and
county levels. This would entail review meetings at the provincial level
and sample visits to counties.  One review meeting will include
Association staff participation; and



-37 -
(e)   preparation of a mid-term review report by October 31, 1998 and project
completion report in a format agreeable to the Association.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a national level Project Implementation
Office (FIL0), reporting to a Vice Chairman of SEdC, will be maintained throughout the
duration of the project, with terms of reference, members and resources acceptable to the
Association, and that SEdC will carry out its activities under the Central Component in
accordance with a time-bound action plan. A first-year national action plan, including
this Central Component, containing time-bound implementation and financial plans
acceptable to the Association, was furnished at negotiations and would be updated
annually.
4.3   Each participating province was closely involved in project preparation,
producing action and financing plans to be implemented during the project period,
accompanied by indicators to monitor progress in implementing these action plans.
These plans with impact indicators are contained in the Project Implementation Plans
(PIPs), which have been produced at both the national and provincial levels and are
available in the project files.
4.4   Provincial Level Implementation. Since the bulk of project activities will take
place in the provinces, the main implementation responsibilities will be assumed at that
level, with SEdC providing overall guidance and coordination of certain national program
TA activities, prescreening procurement procedures and arranging for joint procurement
where appropriate. At the provincial level, Foreign Investment and Loan Offices (FILOs)
have been formed, headed by the Vice Commissioners of the respective Provincial
Education Commissions (PECs), and staffed with officials familiar with education
planning and management, financial management and accounting, civil works and
equipment. A similar structure has been repeated at the county level. The provincial
FILOs will be responsible for overseeing the activities of the county FILOs and arranging
for the necessary training. This model has worked in the implementation of the EDPP
and BEII projects. Provincial and county level project implementation units, headed by a
Vice Commissioner of the Provincial Education Commission, have been established.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these implementation units would be
maintained throughout project implementation.
4.5   Modalities of implementation at the provincial level are detailed in the PIPs,
which are based on Education Programs. Education Programs are those activities that
have been reviewed, appraised and found acceptable by IDA as project-supported
activities. Provincial Education Program Implementation Arrangements will be ratified
by the Borrower and the participating provinces, outlining the implementing
arrangements for carrying out the province's Education Programs (see Anneax14). At
negotiations, provinces submitted the first year annual action plans (containing both time-
bound implementation and financial plans and monitorable indicators) acceptable to the
Association. As a condition of effectiveness the Borrower will provide the Association
with Provincial Education Program Implementation Arrangements, acceptable to the



- 38 -
Association, ratified by the Borrower and participating provinces for carrying out the
provinces' Education Programs. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
provinces and IDA would review annual provincial action plans by October 15 each
year, and thereafter carry out the plans as agreed by the Borrower and IDA. The
proposed action plans will include the next year 's civil works plan, annual maintenance
plan and a program to ensure participation of parents in the implementation of the
project.
4.6   The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) has been organized by SEdC to assist in the
implementation of the project at both the national and provincial levels. The Panel is
composed of representatives from the Government, educational research units, and
Chinese universities. It will report to SEdC's FILO. The Panel will: (a) advise provinces
and counties on the development and implementation of educational plans; (b) advise on
the development and implementation of staff training activities; (c) periodically monitor
implementation progress by reviewing project indicators; (d) monitor the educational
achievement targets for the project provinces' nonproject supported counties at mid-term
and project completion; (e) monitor and report on the effectiveness of the student
assistance program; and (f) coordinate the implementation of the dissemination program.
B. PROCUREMENT
4.7   Civil Works ($120.7 million). This includes new construction as well as major
and minor repairs of school buildings. Most of the schools are in small villages or
dispersed rural areas and therefore it is unlikely that foreign contractors will be interested
in bidding. New construction and major repairs costing $40,000 or more each will be
awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) under procedures acceptable to
the Association. Minor repairs and works expected to cost less than $40,000, up to an
aggregate of $28.0 million, may be carried out through force account. Construction
supervision will be coordinated by County Construction Bureaus and supervised by the
Provincial Construction Bureaus.  Standard bid documents prepared in China, in
consultation with IDA, will be used for NCB. Annual provincial civil works plans will
be reviewed and approved each year by IDA. The $28.0 million of works that will be
carried out under force account has been allocated by the Borrower as indicated in Annex
15.
4.8   Experience derived from early implementation of the EDPP project indicates that
force account has been used in situations where NCB would have been preferable. This
highlights the necessity for more training of the local county and provincial level
implementation staffs so that this problem will be less likely to reoccur. Accordingly,
more attention will be paid to civil works procurement during project launch seminars.
4.9   Goods ($49.4 million). Experience with the implementation of earlier Bank
Group-supported basic education projects indicates that it is highly unlikely that
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be needed for procurement of goods
(classroom furniture and teaching equipment) for the project. However, should there be



-39-
equipment and materials procurement under contracts of $200,000 or above, they will be
awarded through ICB. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each. Standard
bidding documents issued by the Association would be used for ICB and local
manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15
percent or the prevailing rate of customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts estimated to
cost under $200,000 for primary and secondary school equipment, furniture, tent schools
and materials up to an aggregate amount not expected to exceed $20 million, and all book
contracts, will be awarded through NCB procedures acceptable to the Association. NCB
will be used for procurement of books (aggregate value of $10.2 million) following
procedures developed in the two earlier basic education projects. Books are selected by
schools, county and provincial education authorities from a list prepared by SEdC and
published by competing provincial book companies. Past experience and review of book
procurement contracts indicates that competition, based on price, has been the main factor
in the awarding of provincial contracts for books. Equipment and materials contracts
with an estimated value of less than $30,000 and an aggregate amount equivalent to $5.7
million for the project will be awarded under shopping procedures (in accordance with
provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995) after solicitation and evaluation of at
least three written price quotations from eligible suppliers.
4.10  Consultant Services and Training ($21.7 million). Teacher training will be
contracted by County Education Bureaus with Teacher Training Institutions. Studies
(i.e., dissemination program and student assistance program), and domestic and
intemational consultants will be selected by the provinces with the assistance of the CEP
and FILO using the Bank Group's standard form of contract for consultants' services, and
following guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated August
1981. The aggregate amount for training activities is $15.9 million and consultant
services is $5.8 million. Details on staff-months and costs are in Annex 8.
4.11  Review of Project Procurement Procedures. Prior review by the Association of
all stages of the bidding process will be required for: (a) all contracts for consulting firms
valued at $100,000 or more and for individual contracts valued at $50,000 or more;
(b) the first two proposed NCB works contracts from each province annually throughout
the project. The rest would be subject to random sample survey post review by IDA
supervision missions; and (c) all goods and works contracts valued at or above $300,000.
NCB procurement for equipment is expected to take place through one major exercise in
each province with an appropriate number of packages for schools and equipment kits
level. Two equipment contracts per province will be subject to prior review. The PECs
will compile all equipment and book lists based on SEdC approved equipment lists.
These lists will be reviewed and approved by the FILO Equipment Division. With regard
to the proposed works contracts for which Bank prior review is required, SEdC will
review them to ensure compliance with the Bank Group's requirements. The Resident
Mission in China will prescreen these documents prior to forwarding the contracts to
headquarters for its review. Prior review coverage will be of approximately 11 to 13



- 40 -
percent of goods contracts and 4 to 6 percent of works contracts. The provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
do not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, the exceptions to prior
Association review do not apply to (a) the terms of reference for contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Project Element               Procurement Method
NCB        Others      Total
A. Civil Works                92.7       28.0       120.7
(52.5)    (15.7)       (68.2)
B. Goods                      43.7        5.7        49.4
(19.9)     (2.6)      (22.5)
C. Training                     -        15.9        15.9
(6.9)       (6.9)
D. Consultant Services          -         5.8         5.8
(2.4)       (2.4)
io1al                      136        55 A       129B
(22A)     (27.6       (10.0)
Note: (1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.
(2) Others includes: international and national shopping, force
account, and consulting services.
(3) Figures are rounded.
C. DISBURSEMENTS
4.12  The proposed IDA Credit for $100.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over a
period of 5 years as shown in Table 4.2 and Annex 16. The percentages of disbursement
for each expenditure category under the Credit are given in Table 4.3, and follow a
disbursement profile derived from earlier Bank Group experience in basic education and
teacher training projects, especially ones which contain a substantial amount of civil
works. Reimbursements will be based on contracts except for: (a) training programs;
(b) contracts for works and goods valued at less than $300,000 equivalent, except for the



- 41 -
first two works contracts per province per year; and (c) contracts for consulting firms
valued at $100,000 equivalent or less and for individual consultants' contracts valued at
$50,000 equivalent or less, which will all be reimbursed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). This SOE threshold has been established based on the good prior
experience with the implementing agency in the earlier EDPP and BEII projects and the
nature of the project. The provincial project units will be responsible for preparing
withdrawal applications. County project units will prepare withdrawal applications for
submission to the Provincial Project Unit. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will review
the applications and submit them to the Association. Documents supporting the SOEs
will be retained by the MOF and made available for information to SEdC and inspection
by IDA supervision missions. Retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the credit
amount ($10 million equivalent) is recommended to cover payments already made under
the project starting from December 1, 1995 for training activities and February 15, 1996
for civil works contracts.
Table 4.2: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Bank FY                1997         1998        1999        2000        2001
Annual                 12.0         25.0        30.0        30.0          3.0
Cumulative             12.0         37.0        67.0        97.0        100.0
Table 4.3: DISBURSEMENTS
IDA allocation      Percentage of expenditure
($)                 to be financed
Civil works for:
a. Qinghai's Education Program     4.6       70 percent.
b. All Other Education Programs   59.0       60 percent.
Goods                               21.0      100 percent of foreign expenditures.
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory) for locally manufactured items.
75 percent of local expenditures for
other items procured locally.
Consultant services                  2.3      100 percent.
Training                             6.1      100 percent of total expenditures.
Unallocated                          7.0
Tha             100.0



- 42 -
4.13 A Special Account in United States dollars, managed by MOF, with an
authorized allocation of $7.2 million, based on 4 months average disbursements, would
be established in a bank, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association. It
will be replenished monthly or whenever it is drawn down to half its initial deposit level,
whichever occurs first. Disbursements for staff training in China or study tours abroad
will be made from the Special Account against the actual cost of travel, subsistence and
training fees incurred.
4.14  Accounts and Audits. Provincial and national project accounts and details of the
Special Account will be maintained by MOF. Annual audits will be performed by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and a consolidated audit report sent to
the Association. At negotiations, agreement was reached that a consolidated annual
audit report of national and provincial project accounts and Special Accounts would be
submitted to the Association within eight months of the end of each Government fiscal
year, and that the audit will contain a separate opinion regarding the SOEs.
D. REPORTING
4.15  A project implementation timetable is shown in Annex 17. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2001, and will be implemented over a five-year
period, plus six months for the completion of payments and full withdrawal of credit
proceeds. The credit is thus expected to close by December 31, 2001 (as in Annex 16).
4.16 During project implementation, periodic missions from the Association will
review the progress of project implementation including parental participation (see para.
3.30), according to a Supervision Plan and based on indicators presented in Annexes 18
and-7, respectively. SEdC/FILO, with the assistance of the Chinese Experts Panel, will
monitor progress on a province by province basis using indicators included in the agreed
PIP for each province. During negotiations, agreement was reached that a mid-term
report will be prepared before October 31, 1998 [see para 4.2 (e)j.
4.17  Each year, IDA and the SEdC will jointly review the progress toward completion
of the annual action plans and approve the following year's annual action plan. Annual
reports on the progress of project implementation will be prepared by FILO, beginning
April 1, 1997, based on information received from the PIP review meetings, operational
units and agencies of the project. These reports will give special attention to the
development of the EMIS, teacher training activities, and the dissemination program. A
project completion report will be prepared by FILO and submitted to the Association
within six months of the closing of the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that using data provided by PECs by March 1, SEdC will monitor and evaluate project
progress on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association, and furnish the
Association the results of such reviews by April 1 of each year.



-43 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   The project is expected to benefit about 8.3 million of the poorest school children
in some of the more economically disadvantaged counties of some of China's poorer
provinces. It will significantly expand basic education among the poor, especially in the
remote areas inhabited by minority nationalities. Provision of education to remote and
rural areas not only helps to create opportunities for rural development but also provides
the skills necessary to participate in economic growth in township and urban centers.
Minority nationality students will be better prepared to participate in Chinese schools in
the upper and post-secondary levels. Other aspects of the project specifically focus on
delivery of educational inputs for poor girls with fee remission and free textbooks
provided under the student assistance subcomponent, as well as targeted training of
female principals and gender sensitive teacher training programs. Furthermore, the
project includes specific interventions designed to improve planning and management
capacity of the central, provincial and county governments to prepare and implement
similar comprehensive projects and to replicate them in other parts of the country. The
project will have a direct impact on between a third and all (depending on the county) of
the schools and children in 124 counties (covering approximately 46,000 schools) and
will provide varying lengths of training for approximately 138,000 teachers and education
managers.
B. PROJECT FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.2   Total project costs are estimated at $191.8 million equivalent of which IDA would
finance $100 million. The total base costs are $148.4 million. Bank contingencies are
applied to local expenditures, civil works and foreign expenditures. At negotiations
assurances were obtained that each participating province would provide adequate
counterpart funding for financing its respective Education Program included in the
project.
5.3   Detailed Analysis. Five areas of economic and financial analysis pertaining to
the project have been undertaken:  (a) an analysis of the financial feasibility of
development targets for compulsory education in the project counties during 1996-2000;
(b) an analysis of the financial feasibility of development targets for compulsory
education in project provinces during 1996-2000; (c) an analysis of the sustainability of
the project in the project counties after its completion in 2001; (d) an assessment of the
availability of counterpart funding; and (e) an examination of the financing and operative
guidelines of a student-assistance program (see Annex12).



- 44 -
5.4   School construction and teacher training programs have been examined on the
basis of a thorough analysis of both availability of counterpart funding during the
implementation phase of the project and recurrent funding thereafter. These analyses
were performed for each participating province and each county and necessary
adjustments were made in the project targets (primarily in a slight reduction in the scale
of civil work) and in the rate of IDA disbursements (spread over a slightly longer period
of time).
5.5   Sustainability analysis using current feasibility report financial data showed that
the effectiveness of the project investment could not be maintained after project
completion in most of the counties in three of the seven provinces using development
targets presented by the provinces. There was a clear need to adjust development targets
for these project counties and to reduce the size of the project in these provinces. This
finding was reinforced by the analysis on counterpart funding. In an effort to reduce the
burden of counterpart funding on project counties, four of the seven provinces have
increased the share of provincial contribution for counterpart funding to at least 40
percent. However, the burden of counterpart funding still remained relatively high for
counties in the other three provinces; and the ratio of counterpart funding to IDA
investment was over 1:1 for two of these provinces.
5.6    Based on the findings of the analyses of feasibility, sustainability, and counterpart
funding, provinces decided not to reduce their contribution to the counterpart funding
which will mean that the ratio of provincially provided counterpart funds will rise in
relationship to the county proportion, thus taking some of the financial pressure off the
counties. The ratio of counterpart funding to IDA investment based on the feasibility
studies reviewed and modified during the appraisal mission is projected to be 0.88 for
Anhui, 1.08 for Fujian, 0.84 for Gansu, 0.95 for Hebei, 0.98 for Henan, 1.08 for Jilin, and
0.5 for Qinghai. The aggregate ratio for the project is 1:0.89. The reduction in the
proposed counterpart funding required adjustment in development targets, changes in the
size of project components, and changes in the distribution of project funds across
components, all of which were finalized at appraisal.
5.7    A student assistance program will be included as a subcomponent in this project.
Results of a household survey on household education spending (HES) conducted as part
of project preparation indicate that in the four national poverty counties covered by the
study, HES averages were between 9 to 11 percent of total spending of a household and
between 14 to 31 percent of the net income of a household. (An alternative estimate
indicates that the proportion can be as high as 83 percent.) HES is a heavy economic
burden for a significant proportion of households in the four counties, especially when
economic burden is measured as a ratio of HES to household income. A sizable number
of households have to borrow money or receive subsidies from relatives and friends in
order to support the household costs of schooling.
5.8   Through piloting the student assistance program in the project counties, provincial
authorities will develop financing and operating guidelines for this program. Preliminary



-45 -
analysis of this subcomponent indicated that it could provide assistance to a significant
proportion of poor primary students in several of the provinces. Program development
guidelines would: (a) give higher priority to primary students; (b) give higher priority to
female and minority students, especially in counties where female and minority
participation in compulsory education was relatively low; (c) consider the use of the
central compulsory education special fund to finance a trust fund for student assistance;
and (d) develop a student-assistance plan for the year 2000 indicating financial needs,
coverage, and financing sources.
5.9   In summary, the analysis has: (a) resulted in the revisions of provincial proposals
to ensure that the project is financially feasible during the project years and that project
effectiveness is sustainable after project completion; (b) ensured additional and better
targeted national and provincial level "categorical" funding for student assistance
programs; (c) clarified and adjusted the amount of counterpart funding and thus reduced
the risk of a shortage in counterpart funding during project implementation; (d) modified
project design so that project components and investment are more closely tied to project
goals; (e) raised the awareness of Chinese counterparts about the importance and
usefulness of economic and financial analysis in project design and appraisal; and (f) laid
the foundation for a sound economic and financial analysis for the projected fourth basic
education project in China.
5.10   Risks. There are three main risks in this project. First, the provinces may not
ensure that the population in other poor counties (not covered in the project) would
benefit from improved access to and quality of basic education. To deal with this, the
project provinces will be required to implement acceptable action plans with monitorable
indicators to ensure that education achievements in nonproject poor counties will not
deteriorate during the implementation. Second, the central, provincial and county
officials may be unable to oversee the implementation of the project activities. Cognizant
of this risk, management strengthening at all three levels is a principal activity of the
project. Additionally, lessons learned from implementing the IDA-supported EDPP and
Basic Education II projects will be included in the training of provincial and county level
implementation units for this project. Finally, there may be inadequate commitment on
the part of SEdC, project provinces and counties, which may result in insufficient
counterpart funding to match IDA credits. However, SEdC has indicated that it is willing
to allocate sufficient amounts of its own annual budgetary allocation for poor counties to
the seven project provinces to assure adequate counterpart funding (see Annex 19 and
2Q). Additionally, implementation experience of the two earlier basic education projects
and the strong provincial and county level work necessary to develop the current project
indicate that the risk is not excessive.



- 46 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
6.1   During negotiations, agreements were reached that the Borrower will:
(a)   carry out national level training activities (including a limited number of
study tours and overseas training programs) in accordance with an action
plan acceptable to IDA [para. 3.27(b)];
(b)   ensure the composition, role and procedures of the Chinese Experts Panel
(CEP), including adequate staffing and budget acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.29);
(c)   make available part of the proceeds of the Credit to participating
provinces, to be repaid over 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at
an interest rate of no more than 1.2 percent per year (para. 3.41);
(d)   maintain a national level Project Office, with terms of reference acceptable
to the Association, carry out its activities under the Central Component in
accordance with a time-bound action plan and submit a first-year national
action plan for project implementation that would be updated annually
(para. 4.2);
(e)   ensure that a consolidated annual audit report on Project Accounts and
Special Accounts, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, will be submitted to the Association within eight months of
the end of each Government fiscal year, and that the audit will contain a
separate opinion regarding SOEs (para. 4.14);
(f)   prepare a mid-term review report by October 31, 1998, in a format
acceptable to the Association (para. 4.16); and
(g)   monitor and evaluate project progress on the basis of indictors acceptable
to the Association, and furnish the Association the results of such reviews
by April I of each year (para. 4.17).
6.2   At negotiations, agreements were reached that each Participating Province will:
(a)   (i) in Hebei, Anhui and Gansu only, implement acceptable plans for
nonproject supported counties which are acceptable to the Borrower and
IDA and are designed to ensure that the educational achievements in these



-47 -
counties will not deteriorate during the implementation of the project, (ii)
monitor education achievements in nonproject counties on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Association, and (iii) prepare and furnish to
the Borrower for forwarding to IDA a mid-term report on such monitoring
(para. 3.6);
(b)   allocate the Credit proceeds to its counties, as far as possible on a grant
basis, otherwise on terms at least as favorable as the terms on which the
province receives the funds from the National Government (para. 3.41);
(c)   maintain  a  provincial  implementation  unit  throughout  project
implementation (para. 4.4);
(d)   carry out its Education Program in accordance with annual action plans (to
be provided to the Association by October 15 of each year during project
implementation), acceptable to the Association, which include the next
year's civil works plan, annual maintenance plan and a program to ensure
participation of parents in the implementation of the project (para. 4.5);
(e)   carry out regular project monitoring and reporting in a manner acceptable
to the Association (para. 4.17); and
(f)   provide provincial assurances of adequate counterpart funding for
financing activities in both project and nonproject counties (para. 5.2).
6.3   As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower will provide the Association with
Provincial Education Program Implementation Arrangements, acceptable to the
Association, entered into between the Government and participating provinces (para. 4.5).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.4   On the basis of the preceding, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Credit of SDR 67.3 million ($100.00 equivalent), on standard IDA terms with
35 years' maturity to the People's Republic of China.



-49 -                        ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: SOCIAL SECTOR EXPENDITURE REVIEW-
EDUCATION SECTION
April 1995
Overall Development
1.    For more than three decades, educational development in China has been quite
impressive. The adult literacy rate, an outcome of past cumulative investment in
education, grew from 60 percent in 1960 to 74 percent in 1992. By the early 1960s,
China had also achieved virtually universal enrollment in primary education, a coverage
rate that still outpaces the rates found in several Asian counterparts. But, China does lag
behind other countries regarding other dimensions of educational progress. For instance,
its rate of enrollment in secondary and particularly in higher education is below both the
average among all Asian countries and the rates found in low-income countries, let alone
its close comparators. Yet, when income level is accounted for, the level of educational
attainment in China is moderately high relative to other countries. Qualitative indicators
for China, such as average grade attainment of the current school-age population and
cohort survival rate, although showing steady progress, are modest when compared with
those of Malaysia, Korea, and Sri Lanka.
2.    Thus, there may be little scope for improving quantity, but there is room for
quality enhancement in schooling, which may in fact generate more significant gains in
educational attainment. Evidence from several developing countries suggests that the rate
of return to improving the quality of schooling is high compared to improving quantity of
schooling of a given quality'.
Education Cost and Financing
3.    Trends, Structure and Composition.  At least three important features
characterize the composition of public educational expenditure over the past decade
(Table 1.3)2. First, recurrent expenditures have increased in real terms; the bulk going
towards such "autonomous" categories as teachers' salaries and gradually meager
For empirical evidence in a number of countries see Jere Behrman and Nancy Birdsall, "The Quality of
Schooling: Quantity Alone is Misleading," American Economic Review, 1983. Jere Behrman, Donald
Ross and Richard Sabot, "Improving the Quality Versus Increasing Quantity of Schooling," 1992,
Colby College (Mimeo), Waterville, Maine.
2 Unless otherwise noted, public expenditure includes government budgetary expenditures excluding
spending by state owned enterprises (SOEs).



- 50 -                           ANNEXi
proportion is being used for instructional inputs and supplies of basic materials and
equipment for schools. Increase in expenditure on salaries was a part of conscious policy
to improve retention rates among teachers in various provinces.
Table 1.3 Public Expenditure on Education, 1983-93 La
(billion Yuan)
Current Prices                 1987 Prices           As a percentage of
Public
Year       Recurrent  Capital  Total     Recurrent  Capital  Total    GNP  Expenditure
1983             10.38      2.41    12.79       8.03      1.87     9.90     2.2      9.9
1984             11.66      3.16    14.82       9.49      2.57    12.06     2.1      9.6
1985             14.02      4.38    18.40      12.66      3.96    16.62     2.1     10.0
1986             22.47      4.00    26.47      21.26      3.78    25.04     2.7     11.4
1987             24.21      3.56    27.77      24.21      3.56    27.77     2.5     11.3
1988             24.58      3.43    28.01      21.95      3.06    25.01     2.0    10.3
1989             24.68      3.64    28.32      20.06      2.96    23.02      1.8     9.3
1990             27.79      3.41    31.19      21.05      2.58    23.63     1.8      9.0
1991             30.17      3.47    33.64      21.44      2.47    23.91     1.7      8.8
1992             36.19      4.00    40.19      24.58      2.72    27.30     1.7      9.2
1993             55.11      4.48    59.60      38.27      3.11    41.39     2.0    12.1
Average          25.57      3.63    29.20      20.27      2.97    23.24     2.0    10.1
Annual Average    12.4     10.6    12.2         4.7       3.0      4.5
Growth (%)Lt2
La This does not include education spending by the noneducation sector.
lk OLSQ growth rate.
Source: State Education Commission and Staff Estimates
4.     Of total, expenditures on nonpersonnel instructional materials fell from 30 percent
in 1990 to 23 percent in 1993. By devoting its expenditures largely to teachers' salaries
in order to retain a pool of skilled personnel, the government has been forced to find
alternative mechanisms for financing educational supplies and materials. As such it
allows all primary and secondary schools to charge fees and universities to charge tuition
and fees, and to engage in revenue-generating activities. Increasingly, revenues from
students' fee, tuition in post-basic education, and contributions from collectives are used
to finance purchase of books, supplies and teaching aids. This user-fee policy in
education is designed to simultaneously minimize the crowding-out effect and maximize
the equity in the allocation of government education spending. The additional resources
mobilized from private spending thus helping the government to provide greater coverage
at all levels of education.
5.     Second, real capital expenditures have been volatile and even fell on average
between 1985 and 1991. However, the percentage of cuts in capital expenditures on
education were smaller than the average cuts in capital expenditures overall for the public
sector. This pattern conforms to the general finding that spending on education tends not



-51-                        ANNEX I
to suffer disproportionately during budget crisis, due partly to the difficulty of impeding
school building construction, equipment purchase, reducing the number of teachers
employed, and their salary.3
6.    And, third, the share of educational expenditure in GNP and government
expenditure is low compared with neighboring Asian countries that have a similar income
per capita and economic structure. Between 1983 and 1993, China has committed an
average of about 2 percent of GNP on education, representing on average 10.1 percent of
total public expenditure.4 But these shares are relatively low compared to Asian
neighbors that have a similar income per capita and economic structure.
7.    The distribution of public spending by level of education is 36 percent on primary
education, followed by 34 percent in secondary education and the balance in higher
education. This distribution of public spending on education is thus equitable, which is
noteworthy when compared with the patterns observed in many neighboring Asian
countries, where higher education receives the bulk of subsidies. Again, the unit cost of
public education in China-measured as per-pupil expenditure as a percentage of GNP
per capita-is low. In primary education, this is close to unit cost in Nepal, but
substantially lower than in Malaysia, Korea and Thailand. The unit cost in secondary
education in China is lower than those in Bangladesh and Papua New Guinea. Similarly
unit cost in higher education is lower than these two countries. The relatively low unit
cost in primary education is due to high pupil-teacher ratios and the low capital costs of
education. The high unit cost in tertiary education in China, when compared with those,
say, in the Philippines and Thailand, is attributable to very low enrollments and higher
expenditures on training and research in public institutions, whereas a significant
proportion of spending on higher education is borne by the private sector and open
universities in the Philippines and Thailand, respectively.
8.    Sources of Financing Educational Expenditures. The government has a long-
standing policy of using local revenue and community resources to finance primary and
secondary education so as to free-up more central government funds for other purposes
particularly for higher education and research. The bulk of the central government
appropriations go to university programs run by the State Education Committee and to
other specialized schools. Of total spending on primary and secondary education, more
than 75 percent comes from government budgets and education levies, the balance is
accounted for by private sources-local contributions from parents communities, tuition
and fees, school enterprises, and various school-raised funds.  Educational levies
comprise 1 percent of value added taxes in urban municipalities and 3 percent of sales
3 Contrary to conventional wisdom, here, and studies elsewhere by Pinstrup-Anderson (1990), Jarmitto
and Steward (1989) suggest that on average social sector expenditures were the most sheltered of other
important sectors I counties pursuing economic reforms.
4 This would be larger if the noneducation sectors educational spending is included.



- 52 -                     ANNEX I
from production elsewhere. The funds raised from these levies are also used to finance
teacher salaries and school building construction, but they are not included in the
government budget. School-raised funds comprise tax-exempt revenues from school
factories; these revenues are normally used to improve the living conditions of teachers.
9.    Historically, the government subsidy in Chinese higher education has limited
private spending that students want to make. One indication of private willingness to pay
is the existence of excess demand for higher education, i.e., more applicants than
available places. Imposing selective tuition and fees would not reduce the demand for
education but would instead allow government to mobilize private contributions for
expanding access and thus improving equity. Recently the Chinese government has
adopted a reform policy which call for reduced subsidies and higher cost recovery in
higher education.



-53 -                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: PROPOSED BASIC EDUCATION III PROJECT
QUESTIONNAIRE CONCERNING REVIEW OF OED AUDITS
INVESTMENT PROJECTS
1.    How many OED audit reports have been done on projects in the same
subsector as the proposed project for: (a) the same country O; (b) the same region 4;
and (c) for all countries worldwide 14.
2.    What are the main technical design lessons learned from these audit reports?
From the OED reports and relevant IDA projects in related sectors in China, the lessons
learned are as follows:
(a)   Project design should not be overly complex or overly optimistic in its
expectations. Greater awareness of the difficulties of expanding and
improving education in impoverished areas should take this into
consideration in project design.
(b)   An effective monitoring and evaluation systems should be established
prior to project implementation to assess project development impact.
(c)   Early involvement and participation of stakeholders especially at the
county level, helps to ensure smooth implementation, accountability and
sustainability.
(d)   In projects with larger proportions of civil works in dispersed
impoverished rural areas there is a need to include an architect on the
Bank project assistance team.
3.    What are the main policy and institutional design lessons learned from these
audit reports? From the OED reports and relevant IDA projects in related sectors in
China, the lessons learned are as follows:
(a)   Follow-up projects pursuing similar objectives to those of previous
projects help to strengthen and eventually consolidate earlier
achievements, which might otherwise falter and fade away. Thus, follow-
up projects should be part of a long-term investment program with clearly
defined objectives based on sound sector work.
(b)   Importance of ownership on the part of the implementing agencies.



- 54 -                     ANNEX2
(c)   Importance of sustained commitment on the part of the borrower to
provide the necessary resources to support basic education.
(d)   The project should be flexible enough to accommodate mid-course
corrections in scope, content, and approach. Experts panels should be
established to review implementation address issues relevant to mid-
course corrections.
(e)   Increasing access for girls, minority and poor children to quality primary
education must be addressed by innovative enrollment policies and student
assistance programs.
4.    How has the proposed project design benefited, if at all, from the above
review of lessons learned?
(a)   The project began with a joint Bank/Borrower training course on project
design, which included individuals from the preparation and implementing
agencies. The utilization of monitorable indicators was a component of
the project training course. (2a, 2b)
(b)   The borrower and provincial education authorities have been responsible
for organizing the participation of stakeholders at the provincial and
county levels to develop proposals which include local level identification
of issues and optimal solutions. Because this is a repeater project, this
process was facilitated by using experiences and models from earlier
projects. (2c, 3a, 3b)
(c)   A Chinese experts panel has been used to assist in the design of project
components and will be used during project implementation to provide
ongoing high level professional monitoring of project implementation.
(2b, 3a, 3d)
(d)   A county financing study and household survey has been initiated to better
understand what the necessary commitment is for sustaining appropriate
levels of support for basic education. (3c)
(e)   The innovation component aims at supporting action oriented research
programs that will identify innovative approaches to improving access for
girls, minorities and poor children. (3e)



-55 -                     ANNEX2
PARTICULARLY RELEVANT DOCUMENTS
OED reports:
Brazil:    PAR 1994  Northeast Basic Education Project
Botswana  PAR 1990  Third Education Project
Haiti     PCR 1990  Third Education Project
Indonesia  PAR 1992  Third Education Project/Second Textbook Project
Morocco   PCR 1991  Fifth Education Project
Paraguay   PAR 1992  Third Education Project
Pakistan   PAR 1990  Third Education/Fifth Education/Primary Education Projects
Philippines PAR 1993  Sector Project for Elementary Education
Relevant reports on China:
World Bank (1994). Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas (SAR)
(1993)     Effective Teaching Services (SAR)
(1992)     Education Development in Poor Provinces (SAR)
(1992)     China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s
(1991)     China: Provincial Education Planning and Finance-Sector Study
_(1990)    The Sustainability of Investment Projects (OED)
(1990)     Vocational & Technical Education Project (SAR)
(1989)     Textbook Development Project (SAR)
(1988)     Teacher Training Project (ICR)



- 56 -                           ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: KEY PROVINCIAL BENCHMARK INDICATORS-
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Anhui  Fujian   Gansu   Hebei  Henan    Jilin Qinghai
Population ('000)
PV                                  58,970  31,500  23,180  63,340  89,460  24,961   4,667
PC                                  16,994   2,261   7,892  10,036  18,178   1,456   1,610
PVM                                   342      470   1,856   3,000   1,008   2,517   1,960
PCM                                     85      41     731   1,147     201      172     941
Illiteracy Rate (%)
PV                                    13.1    18.0    18.6      9.1     6.0     8.0    30.3
PC                                    14.7    14.0    21.3    10.2      7.3     7.3    41.4
Rural Per Capita Income (Y)
PV                                    724   1,211      551     804     696      891     672
PC                                    471      858     474     421     524      376     441
Enrollment ('000) (Primary)
PV                                   6011   3,639   2,368   7,759   9,519   2,574       444
PC                                   1,697    280      869   1,231   1,859      169     161
Girls' Enrollment Rate (Primary) (%)
PV                                    89.3    99.5    91.7    98.1    97.1    99.2    78.2
PC                                    84.1    88.3    88.7    93.7    95.3    94.0    50.6
First-Grade Repetition Rate (%)
PV                                     5.2     4.0     9.0      5.0     4.5     0.7    33.6
PC                                     6.6    14.1     8.9      8.4     6.5     2.6    22.1
Elementary School Completion Rate
of 15-Year-Olds (%)
PV                                    83.2    92.8    87.0    91.7    97.0    98.5    62.4
PC                                    80.2    84.1    80.6    90.4    92.8    88.2    34.6
Elementary School Student/Teacher
Ratio
PV                                    22.6    22.5    20.1    28.6    24.9    17.4    16.7
PC                                    21.2    17.6    20.4    28.3    22.8    15.6    14.6
Note:  PV = total province
PC = project counties
PVM = provincial minority population
PCM = project counties minority population



-57 -                             ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: KEY PROVINCIAL BENCHMARK INDICATORS-
LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION, 1993
Anhui    Fujian     Gansu      Hebei    Henan         Jilin   Qinghai
Enrollment,
Secondary ('000)
PV                        2,169     1,105       647      2,188     3,194      1,167       158
PC                         636         89       234        370       565         76        47
Transition Rate into
Secondary School (%)
PV                         77.3      80.8       80.8      83.0      71.2       91.1       86.6
PC                         73.2      76.8       78.1      76.0       65.5      89.6       75.4
Girls' Enrollment
Rate (Secondary) (%)
PV                         72.1      74.6       77.3      82.6       70.4      91.0       84.8
PC                         62.3      68.5       72.2      74.5       62.9      88.8       66.6
Completion Rate of
Lower Secondary
School (17-Year-Olds)
(%)
PV                         59.8      62.4       72.0      75.2       68.6      89.0       25.0
PC                         51.6      41.8       66.3      66.5       62.5      71.3       28.5
Student/Teacher Ratio
PV                         19.2      16.3       15.3      15.7       16.0      15.7       13.6
PC                         16.8      15.6       15.1      17.1       15.3      16.5       12.7
Note:   PV = total province
PC = project counties



- 58 -                     ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: SELECTION CRITERIA FOR PROVINCES
Category/Criteria                 Weight
A. Poverty                                        27.00
1. Number of 8/7 Counties                         22.00
2. Rural Income per capita                         5.00
B. Population                                     31.00
3. Project Province Total Population               5.00
4. 8/7 Population                                 25.00
5. Ratio of Minority Population for Whole Province  1.00
C. Education Background                            11.00
6. Primary Education Enrollment Ratio              3.00
7. Primary Education - Girls Enrollment            1.00
8. First Year Repetition Rate                      1.00
9. Completion of Nine Years                        3.00
10. Primary Teachers Qualifications                3.00
D. Existing Teaching Conditions                    11.00
11. Dangerous Building (mi2)                       8.00
12. Equipment Completion Ratio                     2.00
13. Per Student Books                              1.00
E. Other Indicators                               20.00
14. Unit Cost for Civil Works                      5.00
15. Management Capability                          3.00
16. Repayment Capability                          12.00



-59-                          ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: PROVINCIAL ALLOCATIONS TO
NONPROJECT COUNTIES
Amount of
Number        Number    Number               support for
national      project   nonproject      nonproject counties
Province      poor counties    counties    counties             (Yuan)
Anhui                  17            16           1                  5,600,000
Gansu                 41             23          18              2,053,948,000
Hebei                 40             30          10                186,000,000



-60 -                                     ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: PROJECT INDICATORS FOR
PROJECT-SUPPORTED COUNTIES
Goal A.1: Support the Attainment of Universal Primary Education in Poverty and
Minority Areas.
Project                   Project Indicators for                 1993          1997         1999          2001
Objectives                    Primary Schools                   PC    PV    PC    PV       PC    PV     PC      PV
Admission rate
right aged children (%/6)
right aged girls (%)
School              right aged minorities(%)
A    ctndane   Dropout rmte
Improved            Grade 1 (%)
Girls in grade I (%)
Repetition rate
Grade 1 (%)
Girls in grade I (e)
Primary Education completion rate of
IS yr old population (%)
I5 yr. old girls (%/6)
Number of Students receiving student assistance
(e.g., free books or reduction in fees)
Literacy rate on completion of grade 6
Learning La         Total (%)
Achievement         girls (°/0)
Increased      Numeracy Rate on completion of grade 6
Total (%/6)
girls (%)
La These indicators will be collected in three municipalities of two pilot counties in each project province.
Goal A.2: Expansion of Coverage of Lower Secondary Education in Poverty and
Minority Areas.
Project                   Project Indicators for                 1993          1997         1999          2001
Obpctives                     Primary Schools                   PC    PV    PC    PV       PC  |V       PC      PV
Transition Rate
right aged children (%/6)
School                right aged girls (°K)
Attendance    Dropout Rate (%)
Improved              girls (%)
9-yr. Compulsory Education Completion Rate
of 17 yr. old population (%/6)
of 17 yr. old girls (v/.)
Number of students receiving student assistance
(e.g., free books or reduction in fees)



-61-                                     ANNEX7
Goal B: Build Stronger Institutions Responsible for Education Delivery.
Project                  Project Indicators for                1993          1997         1999         2001
Obiectives                   Prim   Schools                   PC    PV    PC    PV    PC   PV        PC      PV
Qualification Rate (Y.)
Full-time          Primary schools
Teachers           Lower secondary schools
Skills        Qualification rate in bilingual education (%)
Improved           Primary Schools
Lower secondary schools
Dilapidated building rate (%/)
Primary schools
Facilities         Lower secondary schools
Improved      Rate of schools with standardized sets of equipment
(%/6)
Primary Schools
Lower secondary schools
Sufficiency rate of school furniture (Y.)
Primary schools
Lower secondary schools
Average books per student (Y.)
Primary schools
Lower secondary schools
PC = Project Counties
PV - Project Provinces



-62 -                      ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMMARY
The following is a description of the technical assistance activities under the Basic
Education III. Data for this Annex are taken from reports present by the seven project
provinces and regions and various units of SEdC. These data, as well as unit costs for
each activity, were discussed in detail with SEdC staff and represent understandings
between the mission and SEdC as to the range, scope and scale of technical assistance
activities to be supported by the proposed project. Detailed terms of reference have been
prepared for the Bank.
Note: All study tours are of two weeks duration.
A. INSTITUTIONAL ELEMENT
Staff Upgrading-Incountry
1.  Academic Qualification (Inservice): 19,839 participants-during a two-year period.
2.  Certification (Inservice): 32,848 participants-one year training.
3.  Multigrade: 8,609 participants-correspondence course training.
4.  Bilingual Teacher Training (Out of Service): 1,039 participants-one year training.
5.  Laboratory Teacher Training: 17,699 participants-20 days of training each-
seminar.
6.  Librarian Training: 13,535 participants-20 days of training.
7.  Teaching Methodology: 22,703 participants-20 days of training.
8.  Principal Training: 19,219 participants-30 days of training.
B. MANAGEMENT ELEMENT
Provincial and County Level Management-Training
1.    Construction Management Staff: 450 participants-30 days of training.
2.    Systems Operators: 124 participants-20 days of training.
3.    Procurement Personnel: 250 participants-30 days of training.



- 63 -                     ANNEX8
4.    Financial Administrative Staff: 248 participants-30 days of training.
5.    Project Management Staff: 248 participants-30 days of training.
C. NATIONAL LEVEL TRAINING
National Level Management Development-Training
1.    Education Administers Training: 224 participants.
(Civil works/ProcurementlDisbursement/Management).
4 participants per project province-7 days of training for each seminar.
2.    Administrative Staff Training:
(a)   Educational Supervisor: 124 participants-7 days of training.
(b)   County Education Directors: 124 participants-7 days of training.
(c)   Methods of Training Laboratory Staff:  124 participants-7 days of
training.
(d)   Methods of Training Principals: 248 participants-21 days of training.
3.    Workshops and Seminars:
(a)   Dissemination of Research Results Workshops:  112 participants-2
workshops each for 7 days.
(b)   Planning and Management Seminars: 112 participants-2 seminars each
for 7 days.
(c)   School Construction Improvement: 56 participants-2 seminars each for
7 days.
(d)   Teaching Methodology Seminar: 220 participants-8 seminars each for 7
days.
4.    Overseas Programs
(a)   Management of Education Financing: 16 participants.
(b)   Investment Efficiency of Basic Education: 8 participants.
(c)   School Planning and Management: 8 participants.
(d)   Teaching Methodology Research: 16 participants.
(e)   World Bank Project Management: 16 participants.



-64-                       ANNEX 8
D. UNIT COSTS FOR TRAiNING ACTIVITIES
Provincial Training
In-service        Out of Service
1. Degree Training
a.    Primary Teachers         Y 900/year        Y 1,400/year
b.    Secondary Teachers       Y 900/year        Y 2,400/year
2.    Certification Training
a.    Primary Teachers         Y 300/year        Y  700/year
b.    Secondary Teachers       Y 300/year        Y 1,200/year
3.    Bilingual Teachers
a.    Primary Teachers         Y 300/year        Y  700/year
b.    Secondary Teachers       Y 300/year         Y 1,200/year
4.    Multigrade Teachers            Y 400/per capita
5.    Laboratory Teachers            Y 400/per capita
6.    Librarian Training             Y 400/per capita
7.    Teaching Methodology           Y 400/per capita
8.    Principle Training             Y 600/per capita
9.    Civil Works Training           Y 600/per capita
10.   System Operator                Y 400/per capita
11.   Administrator Training         Y 600/per capita
12.   Procurement Specialists        Y 600/per capita
13.   Financial Administrator        Y 600/per capita
14.   Project Manager Training       Y 600/per capita



-65-                       ANNEX$
National Training
A.   Cost per domestic Consultant (Y):
Daily Fee:                       150
Per Diem:                        100
Total Daily Cost:                250
Transportation (w/in country):        2,000
B.    Cost per foreign consultant (S):
Daily Fee:                        250
Per Diem:                         150
Total Daily Cost:                 400
Transportation:                 3,000
C.    Cost per Chinese participant (Y):
Per Diem:                         110
Transportation (w/in country):    700
Transportation (w/in province):   400
D.   Cost per Chinese overseas study tours:
Per Diem:                         100
Transportation:                 2,500



-66-                      ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: DISSEMINATION PROJECTS COMPONENT-
IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES
Project Description
1.    The aim of this component is to disseminate and use the results of previous
successful experiments, pilots and research activities to overcome existing educational
problems at the primary and lower secondary levels in project-supported counties.
Previous successful results can come from activities supported by both Chinese and
international organizations (i.e., Provincial governments and research institutes,
universities, the State Education Commission (SEdC), World Bank, UNICEF,
UNESCO). The successful results can come from both within and outside of China.
2.    This component will be carried out in each province based on approved
dissemination project plans, implementation schedules, budgets, completion targets and
monitoring indicators and reporting procedures. The dissemination projects will be
supervised by the Provincial Education Bureaus (PEBs), and monitored by SEdC and the
World Bank. The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) will provide advice on the provincial
dissemination projects, monitor their progress and report on their implementation to both
SEdC and the World Bank.
3.    The topics and proposed budgets for the dissemination projects have been
approved and accepted in principle but the draft dissemination project plan must be
reviewed and approved by the Bank before project funds can be disbursed for this
component.
4.    The next step will be the preparation of draft dissemination project plans for
review and approval. These plans will include identifying:
(a)   specific educational problems to be solved in project counties;
(b)   successful results of previous successful experiments to be drawn from
evaluation reports of pilots and research activities to provide the
foundation of practices for dissemination;
(c)   project goals and linked completion targets;
(d)   project coverage and locations of dissemination activities;
(e)   project schedule with monitorable milestones;
(f)   project budget by specific activity and year; and



-67 -                     ANNEX9
(g)   project progress indicators including starting baseline data, project mid-
term and completion targets.
5.    The proposed dissemination project plans should be prepared by the Provincial
Education Bureaus and sent to the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) for their review and
comment. The CEP recommendations should be sent to the World Bank for its review
and approval. If the CEP has not been fully organized in time for this review, the SEdC
Department of Finance will designate a group which can carry out the review.
(a)   The draft dissemination project plans were submitted to the Finance
Department of the State Education Commission (SEdC) by December 31,
1995.
(b)   The draft plan was reviewed by the CEP before submission to the World
Bank.
6.    Annual reports, with action plans and budgets for the following year, will be
prepared and submitted to the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) and the World Bank for their
review and approval. The mid-term results of the dissemination projects will be reviewed
by the CEP, SEdC and the Bank during the overall project mid-term review, and any
necessary modifications in the dissemination plan will be made at that time.
7.    Project implementation plans may include a minor amount of dissemination
related equipment up to a maximum of 40 percent of the dissemination plan budget. This
will not include research equipment. The requests for any equipment will be included in
the dissemination plans and reviewed and approved by the CEP and the World Bank.
8.    At mid-term and project completion, dissemination seminars will be organized by
the CEP and SEdC to study best practices and results of the projects.



-68-                        ANNEX 9
Project Topics and Budgets
Budget
Province                        Topic                               $ '000
Anhui:      Girls Education
Integrated Education Program for Mentally Handicapped
Children
Subtotal                                                264.
Fujian:
Three Dimensional Cultivation and Breeding                 58.5
Gansu:      Education for Girls and Minorities                200.0
Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools  152.0
Subtotal                                                352.0
Hebei:      Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools
Multigrade Teaching
Subtotal
Hamn:       Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools
Multigrade Teaching
Triple Link Education
Subtotal                                                 lii
Jilin:      Division of Lower Secondary Schools                         46.2
Qinghai:    Girls Education                                   36.2
Bilingual Education                              34.2
Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools  25.7
Subtotal                                                 M2l
TW                                                 1.282.3a



- 69 -                    ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: CHINESE EXPERTS PANEL-TERMS OF
REFERENCE (TOR)
1.    Background and Aims. The Chinese State Education Commission (SEdC)
working with the World Bank (Bank), is supporting the Basic Education III Project which
aims to strengthen basic education in approximately 124 counties in Anhui, Fujian,
Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Jilin and Qinghai provinces. This project, which focuses on
National Level Poor Counties, aims to increase the percentage of students who achieve
compulsory nine-year education by the year 2000. In order to assist implementing this
project, SEdC will establish a Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) to provide ongoing guidance
and advice to SEdC and the provinces on project implementation and policy issues
related to the project.
2.    Responsibilities for the Panel. The Chinese Experts Panel will:
(a)   become familiar with project content and the national and seven provincial
level Project Implementation Plans (PIP);
(b)   submit annual work report (including the plan for the following year) to
provincial education commission (PECs), SEdC and the World Bank;
(c)   make regular site visits to review implementation progress and report visit
findings to PECs, SEdC and the World Bank;
(d)   hold regular panel meetings to review progress in project implementation,
and report to PECs, SEdC and the World Bank;
(e)   advise SEdC and project PEC on the following implementation fields:
(i)   project management and efficiency;
(ii)   civil works;
(iii)   provision, procurement and utilization of equipment and furniture
of primary and secondary schools;
(iv)   compulsory education;
(v)    girls' education;



-70-                      ANNEX 10
(vi)   technical assistance (TA) implementation field, including foreign
and domestic staff training, expert service, various workshops and
overseas study tours.
(f)   Monitor and advise the dissemination activities, student stipend program,
pupil leaming achievement study and submit evaluation report to SEdC
and the World Bank.
3.    Qualification of Panel Members. The Panel will be composed of a chairman,
vice chairman and members from the following categories:
(a)   an academic person with rich experience in project management
(especially in World Bank projects);
(b)   an academic person with strong teaching and research experience in basic
education and administration;
(c)   a civil works expert familiar with construction criteria and building
maintenance of primary and secondary school;
(d)   an administrator from a provincial education commission expert in
education finance and planning;
(e)   an academic person engaged in research on reform of primary and
secondary education; and
(f)   a specialist in student assistance programs.
4.    Candidates with experience in the World Bank project will have priority in
selection. The panel chairman will be nominated by SEdC and approved by the World
Bank. If necessary, the Panel may appoint consultants to assist it in its work. Priority
will be given to consultants with previous World Bank experience, and will be made by
the Panel chairman according to World Bank guidelines. The list of consultants will be
forward to the World Bank and SEdC.
5.    Panel Activities. The Panel will:
(a)   Meet annually to discuss and review project implementation. Project
officers from SEdC and PECs will attend the meetings.
(b)   Make site visits to project counties to review implementation progress.
(c)   In line with the SAR, DCA and other specific issues that may arise from
time to time, appoint consultants and arrange for them to visit project
counties to advise on the issues in project implementation.



-71-                      ANNEX 10
(d)   With the support of a secretariat, review  and advise on project
implementation.
6.    Panel Work Plan. Panel members should allow for 4 full weeks of working time
every year. This would include one annual one-week meeting, an annual 2-3 week site
visit to project counties, and 1-2 weeks of desk work on reviewing project
implementation.
7.    Secretariat. To support daily work of the Panel a secretariat will be established,
whose qualification, work place and duty will be determined by the Panel chairman and
SEdC. The secretariat should comprise at least 2 full-time staff and 2-3 part-time staff
during the period of its operation. The executive officer of the secretariat should be
proficient in English, and with knowledge of basic education, minority education and
teacher training. Candidates with previous World Bank project experience will have
priority in selection.
8.    The staff of secretariat should be familiar with office procedures and technology
such as computers, photocopy machines, faxes, etc. They should know some English and
have experiences in the education field. The staff assistants will produce and maintain
the project files and provide with the CEP service of documents.
9.    The secretariat will:
(a)   arrange  trip  transportation, hotel  reservations,  panel  itinerary,
communications with local hosts for site visits;
(b)   prepare meeting documents for CEP;
(c)   communicate often with SEdC, provincial education authorities and
maintain effective communication channels among CEP members;
(d)   collect information for CEP;
(e)   provide CEP with project implementation data and other assistance in
terms of monitoring and processing review indicators.
10.   Outcomes of Panel Work. The panel will:
(a)   submit an annual report on the Panel's work (including the PIP action plan
for next year) to SEdC, PECs and the Bank;
(b)   submit a report on the Panel's annual meeting to SEdC, PECs, and the
Bank;
(c)   submit annual reports on site visits and consulting service to SEdC, PECs,
and the Bank;



- 72 -                    ANNEX 10
(d)   provide consulting service for and answer questions from project counties;
and
(e)   provide the SEdC, PECs and the Bank with reports on the implementation
and efficacy of the student loan program.
BUDGETs
Expense Category                             Amount Budgeted (Y)
Panel Budget:
Daily expenses                                     100,000
Transportation                                     140,000
Communication                                      100,000
Meeting                                           200,000
Reference                                          50,000
Printing                                           50,000
lao                                              640,000
Secretariat Budget:
Staff stipend                                       7,500
Equipment                                          20,000
Communication                                       5,000
Travel                                              15,000
Document preparation                                2,500
Meeting                                            20,000
ITO                                               70,000
TotaLBudget                                 710,000
($85,600)



ANNEX 11: EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS - BASE COSTS
(US$ '000)
Institutional Component         Management Improvement                      Central Component
InsnircUonal                                                    Research                                                   Physical
Facilities  EquipmenUBooks    Staff    M1nagement Expanding    National Dissemination  Stipend   Study  Expet                      Contingencies
Upgrading   and Fumiture  Development   Training  Educaton  3S  Training   Program    Program   Tours   Panel   tudies         Total      %     Anount
1. Investrent Costs
A. Civil Works                94,907,725                                        -          -                        -         -       -        -       -   94,907,725  100    9,490,773
B. Fumnure                            -        6,432,127                       -           -            -         -          -            -            -    6,432,127  10.0     643,213
C. Equipment
1. School Equipment                 -       22,505,895          -            -                        -                -        -       -            -   22,505.895  10.0   2,250,589
2. MIS Equpment                                     -                        -     1,055,597               -           -        -        -           -    1,055,597  10.0     105,560
Subtotal Equipment                    -       22,505,895          -            -     1,055,597         -            -         -       -        -       -   23,561,492  10.0   2,356,149
D. Libnuy Books                       -        7,313,646                -            -           -                  -         -       -        -       -    7,313.646  10.0     731,365
E. Tachnial Assistanc                                                                                                                                                                            C,
1. TeacherTraining                  -               -  11,396,511            -            -         -             -         -       -        -       -   11,396,511  10.0    1,139,651
2. Project Mgrtr Training           -               -           -      158,496                  -          -           -        -        -           -      158,496  10.0      15,850
3. Natonal Training
Tehcal Asstanoe                                               -                         -   233,364                       -       -  85,800        -      318,964  10.0      31,96
Study Tours                       -               -           *                         -          --                       249,600        -              249,600  10.0      24,960
Subtobtl Natonal Training           -               -           -            -            -   233,364             -         - 249,600   85,600       -      568,564  10.0      56.S56
SubtobtlTachnkalAsslstnce             -               -  11,396,511      158,496                 233,364            -         - 249,600   85600        -   12.123,570  10.0    1,212,357
F. Resech Disserian                   -               -           -            -            -                1,320,000                                       1,320,000  10.0    132,000
G. Student Stpend                             -             -           -                   -          -            - 2,754.853       -        -        -   2,754.853  10.0     275,485
H. Studies                                                                                                                            -            30,000      30,000  10.0       3,000
Total SAEl NECOSTS              94,907.725      36,251,667  11,396,511     158,496     1.055,597   233,364     1,320.000 2,754,853  249,600   85,600   30,000  148.443,413  10.0   14,844.341
Physical Contingencies         9,490,773       3,625,167   1.139,651      15,850       105,560    23,336      132,000   275,485   24,960    8,560    3,000   14,844,341  -
PnceContingencies             16,256,995       8,349,303   2,893,617      21,798       51,952     14,580      405,938   493,719   19,497    7,321_ 2,499   28,517,220   91    2,592,475
TotaPtOJECTCOSTS               120,655,493      48,226,137  15,429,778      196,144    1,213,109   271,281     1,857.938 3,524,057  294,057  101,481   35,499  191,804,974   9.1   17,436,816
Taxes                                 -               .                        -                                             -        -        -         -      -
Foreign Exchinge              21,320,037       5,891,221          .                   947.186   271,281        30,485         - 294,057  101,481   35,499   28,891,247   91    2 l5264771



COMPONENTS BY PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%     %Tota
(yuan V00)                                 PMS$ 100)                Forign   Base
Local        Fomeign         Total          Local       Foreign       Total    E!xcange Costs
A. lnsitutonal Component
Facilities Upgrading                           633,879,798    153,854,320    787,734,118    76,371,060    18,536,665    94,907,725    20      64
Insrtuctbona EqulpmentBooks/Fumriture          258,895,141    41,993,699     300,888,840    31,192,186    5,059,482    36,251,667     14      24
Stafff Deveopmet                                94,591,039            -       94,591,039    11,396,511           -    11,396,511       -       8
Subtotainsu tidolk   Component                   987,365,978    195,848,019    1,183,213,997    118,959,756   23,596,147   142,555,903  17      96
B. Managment Improvemnent
Manaement Traiing                                1,315,516            -        1,315,516      158,496            -       158,496       -       -
Expandg Educatbon MIS                            1,794,095     6,967,360       8,761,455      216,156      839,441     1,055,597      80       1
Subtobt Managenent hiprovement                     3,109,611     6,967,360      10,076,971      374,652      839,441     1,214,093      69       1
C. Central Component
National Tining                                         -      1,936,920       1,936,920            -      233,364       233,364     100
Research Dissemination Program                  10,743,135      212,862       10,955,997     1,294,354      25,646     1,320,000       2       1
Stpend Program                                  22,865,279            -       22,865,279     2,754,853           -     2,754,853       -       2
Study Tours                                             -      2,071,680       2,071,680            -      249,600       249,600     100       -
Expets Panel                                            -       710,480         710,480             -       85,600       85,600      100       -
Studies                                                 -       249,000         249,000             -       30,000        30,000     100       -
Subtota Cenal Component                           33,608,414     5,180,942      38,789,356    4,049,207      624,210     4,673,416      13       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                            1,024,084,003   207,996,321    1,232,080,324   123,383,615   25,059,798   148,443,413    17    100
Physica Confingencies                          102,408,400    20,799,632     123,208,032    12,338,361   2,505,980    14,844,341      17      10
Price Coningenies                              225,691,534    11,001,393     236,692,927    27,191,751   1,325,469    28,517,220       5      19
Total PROJECT COSTS                             1,352,183,937   239,797,346    1,591,981,283   162,913,727    28,891,247    191,804,974  15    129



- 75 -                     ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    As part of the preparation of the Third Basic Education Projection, economic
analyses in three broad areas have been conducted: (a) education and poverty reduction;
(b) financial analysis; and (c) quality and internal efficiency improvement. The findings
are summarized briefly in the following. Details are given in the background documents
prepared for such analyses and can be found in the project file for economic analysis.
A. EDUCATION AND POVERTY REDUCTION
2.    This area is concerned with the issue of whether the project will contribute to
poverty reduction and benefit its intended population groups. Four types of analyses
have been conducted: the relationship between education and income in rural China;
strategies for targeting project resources; mobilization of additional education funds for
poor counties; and financial assistance to poor students.
Review of Studies on Education and Income in Rural China
3.    There is a large English literature on the relationship between education and
income. Studies in many countries (not including China) have found that individuals
with higher levels of education have higher income and that the rates of return to
education are generally positive and substantial (Psacharopoulos, 1994; Lockheed,
Jamison & Lau, 1980). In order to find out the education-income relationship in China,
the mission has asked the Institute of Higher Education at Peking University to conduct a
review of such studies in the Chinese literature since the 1980s. The review finds that
there are very few studies of education and income in China. However, there are three
studies that estimate the private rate of return to education. The private rates are all
positive though they are somewhat lower than the average private rates for other countries
in the English literature. For example, a study based on 1992 data on rural households in
Guizhou province found that the private rate was 9.7 percent for primary education and
7.8 percent for lower-secondary education. Nevertheless, these rates were higher than
those reported in another study of rural households in China in 1986 (Jamison, 1987).
The apparent increase in the private rate over time is consistent with Schultz's hypothesis
that the effectiveness of education is enhanced in a modernizing environment (Schultz,
1976). But there are too few studies from which to draw any definitive conclusion about
the pattern of private rates of return to education in rural areas in China over time.
Further research is needed to determine the magnitude of the education-income
relationship and its pattern over time in the changing environment in China.



- 76 -                     ANNEX 12
Targeting Strategies
4.    To enhance the efficiency of education investment in this project, four types of
strategies have been employed in project design for targeting project resources toward its
intended population groups. The first type is geographical targeting by which only
nationally-designated poor counties in the project provinces are included in the project
(the so called 8-7 counties). The second type is ethnic targeting, which seeks to increase
the involvement of minority populations in project activities. The third type is gender
targeting, which promotes girls education in the project counties. A number of indicators
related to minority and girls education have been identified and will be used in project
monitoring. The project also incorporates a number of measures to promote girls and
minority education, including a student assistance program which gives particular
attention to girls and minority students. The fourth type of targeting seeks to place more
project investment in primary education than in lower-secondary education and to focus
more on incomplete primary schools (schools with grades I to 3 or 4) than on complete
primary schools (schools with grades I to 6). Throughout project preparation and
appraisal, the project investment costs in the project proposals presented by the seven
provinces were examined to encourage these four types of targeting. For more details,
see project file.
Mobilization of Additional Education Funds for Poor Counties
5.    Additional funds for compulsory education will be provided by both the central
and provincial governments to the project counties.
6.    Central Compulsory Education Special Fund-Additional Part. The central
government has a compulsory education special fund to support the development of
compulsory education in poor counties, including the project counties. The "regular part"
of the special fund amounts to Y 350 million in 1995. The central government has
recently decided to provide an "additional part" to the special fund. The additional
resources represent a substantial increase in the fund. For example, by 1997, the
additional part will amount to Y 800 million, which is four times as large as the regular
part. The additional special fund will be used for improvement in school facilities, and
the provision of equipment, furniture, and books. The State Education Commission
(SEdC) has adopted IDA's project preparation and management procedure in distributing
the special fund to provinces. For example, each province will submit a proposal to
SEdC which will organize a national expert panel for reviewing the proposal. The
proposal will explain, among other things: (a) the development goals for compulsory
education; (b) resource requirements and financial feasibility; (c) the poor counties to be
included and the criteria for their inclusion (e.g., the counties should have good
management capacity and that they place emphasis on compulsory education); (d) how
the special fund will be used and distributed among the poor counties; and (e) the
availability of matching funds from provincial/prefecture/county levels (the total
matching fund from provincial, prefecture, and county levels should be two times that of



77 -                     ANNEX 12
the central fund). SEdC will subsequently conduct supervision and monitoring of the
utilization of the special fund in the provinces.
7.    Additional Provincial/Prefecture Education Funds. The project provinces will
provide additional funds to support compulsory education in the project counties. The
provincial government will also match the additional special fund from the central
government by a ratio of one to one. If a poor county cannot afford a one-to-one
matching of the central fund, the concerned prefecture government will provide fund to
make up for the gap. Some project provinces also provide seed money to the project
counties to set up a trust fund for financing a student-assistance program. Information on
the additional amount of central and provincial funds can be found in the project file.
A Student-Assistant Program
8.    Household Education Spending Survey. As part of the preparation of this
project, a survey of households in four project counties was conducted. The survey was
aimed at ascertaining the amount of household education spending, and assessing the
economic burden of such spending and its impact on access to basic education for
children from poor background. Two of the four counties were located in Hebei Province
and the other two counties in Gansu Province. Data were collected by the socioeconomic
survey teams of the State Statistics Bureau located in the concerned counties. One
hundred households in each county were selected based on the sampling method used by
the State Statistics Bureau in its annual survey of rural households in China.
9.    The survey found that households in these poor counties spent a significant
amount of their resources on the schooling of their children. The economic burden of
education spending was heavy for some households and these households had to borrow
money or receive subsidies from relatives and friends in order to send their children to
school. In one of the counties, the percentage of children aged 7-12 years not in school
was as high as 16 percent. Among parents who provided an explanation for their
children's absence from school, 55-60 percent indicated economic burden to be the
reason for the absence. The findings of the survey were discussed with representatives
from Gansu, Hebei, and SEdC. The survey provided empirical evidence that supports a
student assistance program being developed by SEdC and the Ministry of Finance.
10.   National Guidelines For A Student Assistance Program. Education officials at
various levels recognize the economic burden of household education spending and its
negative impact on access to compulsory schooling. SEdC and the Ministry of Finance
have drafted guidelines for the establishment and strengthening of a student-assistance
program; and these guidelines are being circulated among provincial officials. According
to the guidelines, interest proceeds from a trust fund will be used to provide financial
assistance to students from poor background. The trust fund will be financed from
contributions from various levels of government. However, poor students will not
receive cash payments from the fund. Instead, they will receive varying amounts of
reduction in their payments to the school for textbooks, miscellaneous school fees, and



- 78 -                     ANNEX 12
other household costs on schooling, depending on their needs. Provincial education
authorities will be required to develop detailed procedures for the operation and
monitoring of the student-assistance program, in accordance with the needs and
conditions of the provinces.
11.   Project Activities On Student Assistance. As a subcomponent of this project,
the student-assistance program will be piloted in all of the project counties. Between 1.9
and 6.3 percent of the counterpart funds of the various project provinces will be allocated
to this subcomponent. The project provinces will develop guidelines for: (a) eligibility
for assistance (including special treatment of poor female and minority students);
(b) procedure for applying for assistance and evaluation of applications; (c) financing of
the trust fund; and (d) management and monitoring of the program. It is estimated that, at
the primary level, the subcomponent will cover between 6.4 and 27.7 percent of the poor
students in the project counties annually (see project file for more details).
12.   The mission has made the following requests to the project provinces: (a) using a
higher proportion of the interest proceeds from the trust fund on primary students than on
lower-secondary students; (b) giving higher priority to poor female and minority students,
especially in counties with relatively low female and minority participation in
compulsory education; (c) considering the use of a small part of the central compulsory
education special fund as seed money for the program; and (d) developing a program plan
for 1996-2000 (to indicate the coverage of poor students over time and the financing
sources, including the trust fund, the Hope Foundation, work-study program and
production in school, etc.).
B. FINANCIAL ANALYSES
13.   To ensure that the project is feasible during the project years and that project
effectiveness is sustained after project completion, three types of financial analyses have
been conducted: feasibility analysis, sustainability analysis, and assessment of the
availability of counterpart funding.
Financial Feasibility
14.   Financial feasibility analysis has been conducted at three levels: county level,
provincial level, and national level.
15.   County Level.  Officials in each project province were asked to provide
information on the required resources (recurrent and capital) and available resources for
compulsory education in the project counties during 1996-2000. The required resources
were found to exceed available resources for project counties in some of the provinces.
For these provinces, the deficit was eliminated by a number of measures, including the
lowering of development goals for compulsory education in the project counties and the
commitment of additional provincial and central funds. The total domestic resource and
its distribution is shown in the following table. Compared to the actual distribution of
domestic sources in 1994, the distribution for 1996-2000 has a somewhat higher



-79-                                    ANNEX 12
percentage for government allocation and correspondingly lower percentages for the
other sources, for five of the seven provinces (see project file for more details).
Distribution of Domestic Resources for Compulsory Education in Project Counties,
1996-2000
Total     Government  Surcharges &              Work study,   Social contri-   Other domestic
(Y million)  allocation, %  levies, %   Fees, %        %          butions, %      sources, %
Anhui           4,432.8        78.10         14.81          4.47      0.68          1.40            0.54
Fujian          1,423.5        71.18         11.18          7.09      2.02          8.05            0.48
Gansu           2,507.6        86.40          9.22          2.23      0.76          1.08            0.32
Jilin             847.0        83.36          6.32          2.37      4.90          3.05             0.00
Hebei           3,095.1        74.63         14.19          6.67       1.84         2.66             0.00
Henan           4,638.7        64.44         15.60          4.74      2.80         12.00             0.42
Qinghai          721.8         90.02          5.25          1.33       1.39         1.84             0.18
16.      Provincial Level.   Officials from   each  project province  were  also  asked  to
provide information on the required resources (both recurrent and capital) and available
resources for supporting the planned developments for compulsory education for the
entire province, for the period 1996-2000. The comparison of required resources and
available resources at the provincial level was undertaken to assess the financial
feasibility of the planned developments in the province and to ensure that the project will
not have negative financial impacts on nonproject counties. The result indicates that
required resources exceeded available resources for two of the seven project provinces.
The development targets for these provinces were subsequently revised to reduce the
required resources (so as to match available resources). The following table gives the
total domestic resources available and the distribution arnong sources. Compared to the
actual distribution of domestic sources in 1994, the distribution for 1996-2000 has a
somewhat higher percentage for government allocation and correspondingly lower
percentages for the other sources, for all the provinces except Gansu (see project file for
more details).
Distribution of Domestic Resources for Compulsory Education in Project Provinces,
1996-2000
Total     Government  Surcharges &                            Social contri-   Other domestic
(Y billion)   allocation, %  levies, %  Fees, %   Work study, %    butions, %     sources, %
Anhui            14.81        70.29         14.32          5.83      3.81          3.70            2.04
Fujian           25.96        63.89         12.52          4.91      1.35         15.36            1.97
Gansu             7.67        76.32         14.60          5.17      1.76          1.43            0.72
Jilin            24.40        79.51          6.97          4.51      4.92          2.87            1.23
Hebei            25.45        71.55         13.58          4.31      2.68          5.91            1.97
Henan            31.80        55.03         22.01          5.66      3.77         12.58            0.94
Qinghai           2.99        87.27          7.82          2.16      1.37          0.81            0.57



- 80-                      ANNEX 12
17.   National Level. SEdC has informed the mission that it has conducted a financial
feasibility analysis for the development of compulsory education in all the 592 "8-7"
counties for the period 1996-2000. The analysis estimated the financial gaps in these
counties. In an effort to eliminate the projected gap, the central government will provide
an additional Y 3.9 billion in special fund for compulsory education to poor counties
during the 1995-97 period. More of such fund will be provided after 1997. Provinces
and poor counties will be required to match the central funding (prefectures and cities
may assist poor counties that have difficulty in matching central funds). Assuming
continued economic growth during 1996-2000 and beyond, the central government aims
to achieve nine-year compulsory education in the entire country in the early years of the
next century (as presented in the "Outline for Reform and Development of Education in
China" in 1994). To promote an equitable distribution of available central and external
resources for poor counties, SEdC has informed the mission that poor counties that are
included in externally funded projects (such as Third Basic Education Project funded by
IDA) will receive a smaller share of the central funds compared to poor counties not in
such projects.
Financial Sustainability
18.   The financial sustainability of the project is assessed by comparing the projected
total recurrent cost of compulsory education in project counties in 2001 with the
projected recurrent budget for compulsory education in project counties in 2001. Total
recurrent cost in 2001 is the sum of the total regular recurrent costs of personnel and
nonpersonnel inputs in 2001 and the total annual recurrent cost implication of the project.
TIhe total annual recurrent cost implication of the project is equal to the sum of the annual
costs needed to maintain the effectiveness of project investments in school buildings,
equipment, furniture, and technical assistance. In this analysis, the annual cost of
maintenance of an education input is estimated to be the product of a coefficient for that
input and the project investment in that input. The coefficient will vary across education
inputs and across project counties. It is between 2 and 3 percent for school buildings,
between 3 and 4 percent for equipment, between I and 2 percent for furniture, and
between 0.1 and 0.3 percent for technical assistance. The projected recurrent budget in
2001 was estimated on the basis of the actual recurrent expenditure in 1994 and a
historical growth rate.
19.   The analysis shows that the project was clearly not sustainable in two of the seven
provinces. The development targets and project size for the counties in these two
provinces were reduced. Though the project appears to be sustainable for the counties in
a third province, the recurrent budget in 2001 was based on a somewhat optimistic
growth rate; the development targets and project size were also reduced for this province.
The project was found to be sustainable for the counties in the other four provinces. The
final results of the analysis are incorporated in the revised feasibility reports prepared by
the provincial representatives (see project file). The aggregate results for the project
counties are given in the following table.



-81-                                   ANNEX 12
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Projected regular    Total annual
Actual recurrent              Projected recurrent   recurrent cost,    recurrent cost    Total recurrent
cost, 1994    Annual growth    budget, 2001       2001          implication       cost, 2001
(Y million)     rate, %        (Y million)      (Y million)      (Y million)      (Y million)
Anhui             645.75           9.8         1,243.78          1,237.49            5.79         1,243.28
Fujian            147.65          10.8          303.52            301.48             1.65          303.13
Gansu             298.28           9.9          576.40            574.97             1.33           576.30
Jilin              121.41          8.0          208.50            206.72             1.30           208.02
Hebei             411.83          11.7          893.10            886.59             6.20           892.79
Henan             531.85          13.0         1,250.01          1,244.60            5.50         1,250.10
Qinghai            90.12           12.7         208.55            206.00             1.80           207.80
Availability of Counterpart Funding
20.      Before appraisal, the ratio of total counterpart funding to total IDA  investment
was 1.12. The analyses of feasibility at the county and provincial levels and of
sustainability at the county level indicate that the development targets have been set too
high by provincial and county officials. An examination of the financial sources for the
proposed counterpart funding also indicates that counterpart funds can be a burden on the
limited education resources of some of the project counties (see details in project file).
Thus, the provincial officials at the appraisal meeting were requested to adjust the
development targets to keep required resources in line with available resources. At the
same time, the size of the project was reduced by reducing counterpart funding from the
project provinces. The extent of reduction in counterpart funding for each province was
based on several considerations, including financial feasibility, project sustainability,
proportion of counterpart funding provided by provincial and prefecture governments, the
burden of counterpart funding on project counties over the duration of the project (and
especially at the height of project implementation), and the financial health of provincial
and county governments. The resultant total counterpart funding is equal to 89 percent of
the total IDA investment. The results are given in the following table.
RATIO OF COUNTERPART FUND TO IDA INVESTMENT
Counterpart                     Ratio of counter-
funding      IDA investment    part funding to
(Y million)      (Y million)    IDA investment
Anhui           135.3            153.5              0.88
Fujian          62.8              58.0              1.08
Gansu           113.0            150.6              0.75
Jilin           44.8             41.5               1.08
Hebei           165.6            174.3              0.95
Henan           180.8            184.9              0.98
Qinghai          33.2            66.3               0.50



- 82-                             ANNEX 12
C. INTERNAL EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
Simulation In Recurrent Cost Savings By Reducing Repetition Rates
21.    One of the effects of the project is the reduction in repetition rates of compulsory
education in project counties. This increase in internal efficiency will result in recurrent
cost savings, which can be used to expand new enrollments and/or improve education
quality. This analysis simulates the recurrent cost savings in grade 1.
22.    Data from  the six provinces in the Education Development in Poor Province
(EDPP) Project shows that, between 1988 and 1995, repetition rate in grade I decreased
by an average of 8 percent per year (that is, repetition rate in a given year is equal to 0.92
of the repetition rate in the previous year). This rate was used to estimate the recurrent
cost savings in the project counties in the Third Basic Education Project and the results
are given in the following table (details of analysis are given in the project file).
However, the reduction in repetition rates in the EDPP Project was due to a combination
of two factors: quality improvement (such as better trained teachers, provision of
instructional materials, etc.) and administrative policy (school principals were told to
reduce the number of repeaters). And it is not clear what proportion of the reduction was
due to quality improvement and what proportion was due to administrative policy. The
table provides three sets of estimates of the ratio of recurrent cost savings to investment
in primary education in the project counties, corresponding to three different assumptions
about the proportion of contribution due to quality improvement. The results pertain to
grade 1 only; the ratio will be several times larger if recurrent cost savings in grades 2 to
6 are included.
COST SAVINGS IN GRADE 1
Recurrent cost  Investment in    Ratio of savings in grade I to investment in primary education
savings during    primary education   25% due to quality  50%/6 due to quality  100/o due to quality
project (Y million)  (Y million)   improvement      improvement      improvement
Anhui            3.17            194.22            0.004            0.008            0.016
Fujian            2.97            63.00            0.012            0.024            0.')47
Gansu            4.95            189.66            0.007            0.013            0.026
Jilin             0.35            55.73            0.0015           0.003            0.006
Hebei             5.14           188.51            0.007            0.014            0.027
Henan             5.83           238.73            0.006            0.012            0.024
Qinghai           3.05            64.38            0.012            0.024            0.047
23.    There are significant variations in the ratios among the seven provinces, due to a
number of factors. First, the recurrent cost per student varied between Y 180 per student
for Anhui to Y 534 per student for Fujian. Second, the provinces have different repetition
rates in grade I in 1995 and the total reductions in the value of the repetition rates are also
different. For example, repetition rate will drop from 2.60 percent to 1.86 percent in Jilin
and from 22.80 percent to 16.34 percent in Qinghai. Third, the per-student investment in
primary education is also different among the provinces.



-83 -                      ANNEX 12
Learning Achievement as Outcome Measure
24.   Two new efficiency indicators will be added to the list of indicators for project
monitoring. They are measures of learning achievement in numeracy and basic literacy.
Each project province has been asked to develop its own efficiency indicators and pilot
the use of these indicators in the project counties. In addition, the central component of
the project will support a study of learning achievement in all seven project provinces.
The objectives of such activities are: (a) to develop the process for collecting information
on learning achievement; (b) to monitor progress in learning achievement in project
counties; and (c) to provide an outcome measure for assessing the performance of the
project.
Strengthening SEdC's Capacity for Economic Analysis for the Fourth Basic
Education Project
25.   As a result of the economic analysis in the Third Basic Education Project, SEdC
has gained experience in several areas of economic analysis, including financial-
feasibility analysis, financial-sustainability analysis, assessment of the availability of
counterpart funding, empirical study and program development related to student
assistance, and simulation of cost savings through improvement in internal efficiency.
The data-gathering capacity will be developed in project counties for monitoring learning
achievement. The review of existing studies on the relationship between education and
income in rural China has also identified areas for further empirical investigation. These
experiences and activities will provide a solid foundation for a sound economic analysis
in the preparation of the Fourth Basic Education Project.
D. SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
26.   In summary, the economic analysis undertaken during project preparation and
appraisal has: (a) resulted in the revisions of provincial proposals to ensure that the
project is financially feasible during the project years and that project effectiveness is
sustainable after project completion; (b) encouraged more central and provincial funding
for compulsory education in the project counties; (c) clarified and adjusted the amount of
counterpart funding and thus reduced the risk of a shortage in counterpart funding during
the implementation of the project; (d) provided the empirical basis for a student
assistance program to be piloted in the project; (e) modified project design so that project
components and investment are more closely tied to project goals; (f) raised the
awareness of Chinese counterparts about the importance and usefulness of economic
analysis in project design and appraisal; and (g) laid the foundation for a sound economic
analysis for the Fourth Basic Education Project in China.



- 84 -                    ANNEX 12
References
Institute of Higher Education, Peking University (1995).  "Relationship Between
Education and Income in China: A Literature Review." Beijing, China. Paper
prepared for the World Bank as part of the preparation of the Third Basic
Education Projection in China.
Jarnison, D., & van der Gaag, J. (1987). "Education and Earnings in the People's
Republic of China." Economics of Education Review, 6(2), 161-166.
Lockheed, M., Jamison, D., & Lau, L. (1980). "Farner Education and Farn Efficiency:
A Survey." Economic Development and Cultural Change, 29, 37-76.
Psacharopoulos, G. (1994). "Returns to Investment in Education: A Global Update."
World Development, 22(9), 1325-43.
Schultz, T. (1975). "The Value of the Ability to Adjust to Disequilibria." Journal of
Economic Literature, 13 827-876.



-85 -                           ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Actual                  Projected    Projected       Total        Total
Recurrent    Annual      Recurrent     Regular        Annual      Recurrent
Cost       Growth       Budget      Recurrent   Recurrent Cost    Cost
1994        Rate         2001       Cost 2001     Implication     2001
(Y'000)       (%)        (Y'000)       (Y'000)       (Y'000)      (Y'000)
Anhui         645.75          9.8      1,243.78      1,237.49         5.79      1,243.28
Fujian        147.65         10.8        303.52        301.48         1.65        303.13
Gansu         298.28          9.9        576.40        574.97         1.33        576.30
Jilin         121.41          8.0        208.50        206.72         1.30        208.02
Hebei         411.83         11.7        893.10        886.59         6.20        892.79
Henan         531.85         13.0      1,250.01      1,244.60         5.50      1,250.10
Qinghai        90.12         12.7        208.55       206.00          1.80        207.80



- 86 -                    ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS
1.    The project areas were selected based on the criteria specified in para. 3.2 of this
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the programs proposed for the project areas during the
preparation of the project. The project areas include the provinces of Gansu, Qinghai,
Hebei, Jilin, Fujian, Anhui and Henan. The recommended number of counties in the
project was set at 124 and was limited to counties identified by the State Council Leading
Group for Poverty Reduction as National Level Poor Counties from the "National 8/7
Plan to Reduce Poverty (1994-2000)." Each of the project areas would be eligible to
participate in the project only upon its written commitment to the Project Implementation
provisions specified in the following paragraphs, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
A. FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
2.   (a)   The Borrower would make available part of the proceeds of the Credit to
participating provinces in order that they are able to carry out the activities
agreed to in their action and financing plan.
(b)   Specify who will ensure that annual reports on Project Accounts and
Special Account, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, will be submitted to the Association within eight months of
the end of each Government fiscal year, and that the audit will contain a
separate opinion regard the SOEs.
(c)   Each participating province would allocate the Credit proceeds to its
counties, as far as possible on a grant basis, otherwise on terms at least as
favorable as the terms on which the province receives the funds from the
National Government.
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
National Level Management
3.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   carry out national level training activities (including a limited number of
study tours and overseas training programs) in accordance with an action
plan acceptable to IDA;
(b)   coordinate and ensure project implementation oversight at the provincial,
prefectural and county levels;



-87 -                       ANNEX 14
(c)    prepare a mid-term  review report by October 31, 1998, in a format
acceptable to the Association; and
(d)   establish a Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) with terms of reference, staffing
and budget acceptable to the Association.
Provincial Level Management
4.    Each province shall:
(a)   establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the project period, a project
leading group, chaired by a Vice Governor and including officials from the
education bureaus and the planning committees and other relevant sectors;
(b)   establish and maintain through the project period, a project office with a
full-time director;
(c)   establish in each county and maintain a project office headed by a project
director;
(d)   carry out regular project monitoring and reporting in a manner acceptable
to the Association;
(e)    monitor and evaluate project progress on the basis of indictors acceptable
to the Association, and furnish the Association the results of such reviews
by April 1 of each year;
(f)   carry out its Education Program in accordance with annual action plans (to
be provided to the Association by October 1 of each year during project
implementation), acceptable to the Association;
(g)   (i) carry out actions plans for non project supported counties which are
acceptable to the Borrower and IDA and are designed to ensure that the
educational achievements in these counties will not deteriorate during the
implementation of the project, (ii) monitor education achievements in
nonproject-supported counties on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Association, and (iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower for forwarding
to IDA a mid-term report on such monitoring;
(h)   prepare by October 1 of each year and furnish to CEP for approval
proposed research programs for inclusion in the Central Component
during the following year; and
(i)    monitor and evaluate provincial action plan implementation at the county
level in a manner acceptable to the Association.



- 88 -                     ANNEX 15
ANNEX 15: DISTRIBUTION OF FORCE ACCOUNT FUNDS
BY PROVINCE
($ '000)
Total Civil    Force
Distribution                Works      Account as
Name of        IDA        of Force     Adjusted    Financed by   % of Civil
Province      Credit     Account la    Amount        Project      Works
Qinghai         8,000        2,240.0      2,500        7,000          35.7
Gansu          18,170        5,087.6      5,300       16,000           33.1
Hebei          21,000        5,880.0      5,750       21,000          27.3
Anhui          18,520        5,185.6      5,040       16,000           31.5
Henan          22,310        6,246.8      6,050       21,000          28.8
Jilin           5,000        1,400.0      1,400        5,500          25.4
Fujian          7,000        1,960.0      1,960        8,400          23.3
TQIah 100.000            28,000.Q     28,0Q0       94.900 
la Percentage of Force Account allocated to each province equals the percentage of the
total IDA Credit used by an individual province.



-89 -                        ANNEX 16
ANNEX 16: LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA             Disbursement            Project
fiscal year/    Semestral    Cumulative  Cumulative       Profile La
semester  -------($ million)               (%)              (%)
1997
1st          6.0          6.0              6              14
2nd          6.0          12.0            12              38
1998
1st         12.5         24.5             25             50
2nd         12.5          37.0            37              66
1999
1st         15.0         52.0             52             70
2nd         15.0         67.0             67              78
2000
1 st        20.0         87.0             87             86
2nd         10.0         97.0             97              86
2001
1st          3.0        100.0            100             94
La Disbursement profile-Bank standard disbursement profile for China.
Completion Date: June 30, 2001
Closing Date:    December 31, 2001



ANNEX 17: IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
Calendar Year                                 1995            1996            1997             1998            1999            2000            2001            2002
Bank Fiscal Year                          1995 1      1996      1     1997      1     1998             199             2000            2001            2002
Quarter                                 Q1JQ2Q   Q4Q              Q2Q3lQ41QIQ2lQ3Q4 QI Q2 Q3 Q4Q     2   3Q r-2Q     41rQ    Q     4Q    Q     3Q
INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT                                        t         Lt           IIII14QiQ14Qi3412341234
Faciities Upgrading
Annual Review of Works Contracts
and Maintenance Plans
Instructional Equipment
Invitation for Bids                                                                                f-
Contract Awards & Delivery
Books
Invitation for Bids
Contract Awards & Delivery
Furniture
Invitation for Bids
Contract Awards & Delivery
Teacher Training
MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Management Training
MIS Equipment
Invitation for Bids
Contract Awards & Delivery
CENTRAL COMPONENT
National Level P-roject Training
Research Disseminaton Program
Stipend Program
Study   Tours                                                        _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _
TORs Available for Bank Review
Experts Panel
Studies
LOAN PROCESSING & EVALUATION  I_  _
Negotiafions 
Board Approval____ _
Credit Signting                                             -
Effectiveness                                                        __
Retroactive Financing
Mid-T.-rm Review                                                                                     x__ 
Audit Reports Due
Project CompletionI I F 
Credit Closing                                                                                                                                                __ __f+
Implementation Comnpletion Report



-91-                            ANNEX18
ANNEX 18: SUPERVISION BY IDA
IDA SUPERVISION MISSION INPUT TO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate                                             Expected Skill      Staff-weeks
Date                    Activity                    Requirements           Input
07/96      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               2
(Project Launch)                    Teacher Training               2
Keview Procurement Documents        Information Systems            2
Review 1996 Action Plan             Procurement                    2
10/96      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               2
Review implementation               Teacher Training               I
Review progress of Dissemination    Procurement                    I
Program studies                   Technical Assistance           2
Review 1997 Action Plan
03/97      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               3
10/97      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               3
Review 1998 Action Plan
03/98      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               3
10/98      Mid-Term Review                     General Educator               3
Each province will present progress  Teacher Training              3
reports on:                       Information Specialist         2
Action Plans                 Technical Assistance           2
Construction
Equipment
Training of Teachers
MIS
Dissemination Program
Review with MOF/SEdC dis-
bursement to each province
Review 1999 Action Plan
06/99      Supervision Mission                 General Educator        2
10/99      Supervision Mission                 General Educator        3
Review 2000 Action Plan
06/00      Supervision Mission                 General Educator        3
12/00      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               2
03/01      Supervision Mission                 General Educator               2
Review Provincial Completion
Plans
Total                                                    42



- 92 -                       ANNEX 19
ANNEX 19: PROVINCIAL COUNTERPART FUNDING AS A
PROPORTION OF PROVINCIAL EDUCATION BUDGETS L/
(In Yuan)
Annual
Provincial     Counterpart
Counterpart     Counterpart      Financial     Funding as %
Funding     Funding -Annual    Resources      of Financial
Province         Total          Average          1994       Resources, 1994
Anhui              135,300          27,060         3,450,300          0.78
Fujian              62,800          12,560         3,557,000          0.35
Gansu              112,950          22,590         1,435,430          1.57
Hebei              165,600          33,120         3,639,900          0.91
Henan              180,800          36,160         4,130,000          0.88
Jilin               44,800           8,960         3,087,460          0.29
Qinghai             33,200           6,640          432,560           1.54
All Provinces      735,450         147,090        19,732,650          0.75
/a    Figures provided to the Appraisal Mission in October 1995.



- 93 -                          ANNEX20
ANNEX 20: SOURCES OF COUNTERPART FUNDING
(In percent)
Government
Allocation    Township    Miscel-       Work
at various    Education    laneous      Study       Social
Levels       Surcharge      Fees     Program     Donation      Others
Anhui              80             14           4         1            1            0
Fujian             71             11           7         2            8            1
Gansu              86              9           2         1            1            0
Hebei              74             14           7         2            3            0
Henan              64             16           5         3           12            0
Jilin              86              6           2         4            1            0
Qinghai            91              4           1         1            1            1



- 94 -                     ANNEX21
ANNEX 21: DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE
1.    Economic Analysis Annexes:
(a)   Report on household education spending in China (see report prepared by
Mun Tsang during preappraisal mission).
(b)   Table on additional central and provincial funds to poor counties.
(c)   Estimates of primary students served by subcomponent on student
assistance.
(d)   Revised counterpart funding, as of 4 November 1995.
(e)   Analysis on counterpart funding, as of 4 November 1995.
(f)    Table on domestic resources for compulsory education, 1994.
(g)   Simulation of recurrent cost savings through reduction in repetition rates.
2.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
3.    Official Provincial Counterpart Assurances
4.    Provincial Feasibility Reports for Anhui, Hebei, Hunan, Gansu, Fujian, Jilin and
Qinghai (March 1995, June 1995, October 1995 and January 1996).
5.    Proposed Third Basic Education Project: Preparation Mission, March 1995-
Aide Memoire.
6.    Proposed Third Basic Education Project: Preappraisal Mission, June 1995-Aide
Memoire.
7.    Proposed Third Basic Education Project: Appraisal Mission, October 1995-
Aide Memoire.



IBRD 27694
/ ~~~~~CHINA                                                                          RUSSIAN-. ....-
CHINA                                      -.    ~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION  -
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                         , . -.                     '   '-  '?
ANHUI PROVINCE                                                                   -
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MONGOUA 'cs<->,
PROJECT COUNTIES                                                             A _E
J     PROVINCE CAPITAL                                            .                                           <   
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               k' D K                                                 JAPAN
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES                                   '   ''a
REP, OF
-J -- PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                    i                       N4   f                                        KOREA
/   -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
/ Avs                       "\  (i  *F,SHANHAI
w -\     \.                           _  Prf            N    ft . ''     "   ''  a, r\ >A
<SHANDQN'                                A.  .LIDC _ b v t t. 91ET i . _ ,,/ONS
!~~~~~~~~~~ ;.0m Cpgk.
NAM    NA
MANAN          '          '.  ., ..PH_ILIPPINES
ra ,?                                      > ;- sXo
,#f)  ~         ~~~~~                            -                                        MACH rOOT-., ,X' ;
0   ' '   fMe$,.   ¢                      9  ~~~~~~~~~~B.   . em:
wLINGeIsN   ~~ ~~~~~~~ -PDR.-r  ANMA
g  0 0; /   HEFEI  . '   t
'~~                 ~ W'-4            j
~~~~ I-                              ''cc'."\e 
UhCUANMA
VlKNflUAMfl%;
(       \I2jU%                                                 ( 9sf      0 0     ~       z 
5~~~~~~~~~                                      5    tfvtSxXEi                   ~                         s/ \t
W.A /   aHE, ,
i~p~lf -A                                               * ,   x.         <                               7-1 'ttt
/        C '            eS                  4 :J,A,C sa
ANMA              i       1                   W U WS'>' 
- 77fe l- 1                   K     ?
dh nmobonsonodony.,i Idr     '        UN                                                       /;                    I
other ,nfomraopo.  sftotn  2.                                                            /  >   ;   .  
on tis, amop do not     _                         :                 v,
atply,  on  the   portt of {t't fN.-.....  y
7The Watid Soni ro p,  }" '  e  
any ..s nfttt the hgd
WAy'>;' *f r bfritory,  .               80   20  40  60  80  100  120
or any endts!'je,a t,!,ettt                                                                                         l l l  
or acceptance ot suchl                                                           / 
KILOMETERS
FEBRUARY 1996



IBRD 27695
RUSSIAN
-.    ,. -. -~FEDERATION                         ¾ -                -        THR BAI                       CIN
,'t*oaRnoN ,  u'THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
MONGOUA                                                                               FUJIAN PROVINCE
PROJECT COUNTIES
XlOl/AIAG                                        U 06ING                JAPAN
- '  KORF        JA                                 PROVINCE CAPITAL
KOREA
RE, Of                                  ® /.  -r 7    v  RP.     .............NATIONAL CAPITAL
¾.   1%)g-\. '  KI?   t                 KOREA                                          COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
XIZANG                        ,     OME
SICt VAN ~  l#4A
* Nehcl Cop.Il          ,GiAZ fOJ(
Prownrce               $II<    TAIWAN
-. - BonerJachnoe  _  . ,   mE t*_ -       rHOW,ORCN'UAK
_P. D R-.    ,                             PHIUPPINES
Th. ondor.s cor
denoehos  d -ny
n th, mop dno                                                                                                          ..
on'  the port of
Th. Worie 8eni Group                                                                                                          1
-o any                                                                                                                           HErrtoy,  SHOUNINS C
ZHOUNI..
PINGNAN
£3 FUZHOU
.             ~~~~~~~~~~~. 5
:LANCHENG\
iAIGTING
SHANGHANG
0           'IO          1 00         150          200
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~', I      I'} -
KILOMETERS
FEBRUARY 1996



MONGOLIA                                                               CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
GANSU PROVINCE
a YUZHONG
9 YONGJING                                                                                                                          _             PROJECT COUNTIES
I1 LINXIA                                                                                                                                   *     PROJECT COUNTIES HAVING > 10%
MINORITY POfPULATKON
13 GUANGHL
®     PROVINCE CAPITAL
1 6WEIYUAN                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
8 JINGN ANG                                                                                                                                      COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
19 ZH-UANGLANG
20 ZH-ANGJIACHUAN
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
8T. Ibw.,o.. coin., .o'ninneon, ond coy oh~,or nfon
or on      doo ndo in'., on J .p.to J IWord h a"
Gow, ony -i-  #hn 1.go -.. d ony -oy,- or-y
.ndo,co.nor a' oa'r    oih bo.od6i
RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION                                                                                       T1ANHU   I
,  ..  ONGDENG   JIN    AN
§   MONGOLIA        !              M t . . .                                                            \                 <          X                         HUACHI
_4UINING                       QING-
-4 9  4AN7f4OUO-I
Xra3W-                                        a4ofcV   I           JAPAN                                                   .'
,,D P R OF                                                                11          4DING)al w   18
;3   ;  v i  X   0: ) .                  ~~~~~~~~~KOREA                                                                                   18   ' 2 
UNTAO
KOREA                                                16                    ~~~~~~~~~~~20~
GANSQ z  -                                                                                                       *             GANGU
A,nktooi . n  0;   ; t -~                                                                                 UNTAN ';   tWU              AN
7OE                                                                                          ZHUONI     W,A
. 901UAN  0   XZHEAANG                                          .                                 3                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'D(A
XIZAtOG                   .UgEi~~GJIZrO
: tdUNAN  IANG HEAANG
* Nhonol Copitl
Pranie       YUNNAN        AAN/AN                                                                                                                WUDU
"' n   o 8 nec                   &UAJ&. GUAONG                                                                                                                                                               W
C  -. - ,nrotr,onotinl _,{  ETi_            tAOrT                                                                                                                                                            2
>                          VIundoris  J ' tAM                                                                                                                      0    50   100  150  200   250  300
- A                     PH*ILI  S                                                                                                    KI I  I     I     I     I     I OM S
-0                   . ' .            r.crcN                PHi-LiPPiNES                                                                                                         KILOMETERS                 '0



IBRD 27697
CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                               PROJECT COUNTIES
PROJECT COUNTIES HAVING > 1 0%
HEBEI PROVINCE                                                                                 *   MINORITY' POPULATION
®      PROVINCE CAPITAL
®      NATIONAL CAPITAL
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
LONGHUA
KANGBAC)O
\      FENGNING              *
CHICHENG            ,LUANPING*
KL,ANCHENG
WAN-                                                                         *     -      '~
QUAN                                                                            (QiNGLONG 
\ HUAI'AN
1 SHUNPING
BEIJING                                         ~~~~~~~~2 WUOXANG
N                                      BEIJING                                                           3. GUANGZONG
j ~ N  YU LAIYUAN       Y
YAYUN  IXIAN
1f  '                                                   Bo Hai
Ft .NG
UNGSHOU
N   XIANXIAN
PINGSHAN                                   '
-1        jNANPI    YAN-
SHIJIAZUANG                 2           DONG-    SHAN
0                   ~~~~~WUYI  ~UN 
ZA)HUASG                                                                               RUSSIAN           -
;C,HENG                                                               , _       FEDERATION                        .
JULU                                 '-           -._!     ._              .    _                                   ,
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I F. _hI . _N HlO A!,
MONGOUA                                      A
GUANG                                       !                          *t    k+4               r D vJAPAN
DAMING\                                                                      "W REP Of
WEIXIAN                                                             YQ4Ic YeANxlEM°qr            f         0liow  EK
/W;,                              .      , .ASHAANXI                      C          t NSt  .j
I,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~bc
.XZANG                             00FUk BSe
The boundo,Ioes colorr                                                                                                JFANGS
denom foFto,Fs rnd r00  8NA
oihe, .fo,mo,,oo st own                 /                                                             G IZHOc
A, mp do no/                                                           * Noinool Copimlo
T,e World E.on Groap                  /                                      PrewinrO      YUNNAON        GUANGXI  GUANFGAN                     PACiFIC
oot /OD0lOlIt or1 IFO Opal                                                     andon.l          s.\.      GUA      GoANG/G,                     OCEAN
sssof oayrloy                  O1lFiaIlI                                                .   t,VIT                  t HONGIKONGC U Xi
01   OFI   nF'Oar,0010F0                            in~~~~~~~~.n,oi,ono,  "'~~~~~  VIET      oSCcPT
0   20  40  60  80  I00 120           NaAndoroc     -v                              P OR4AT
or ncpiaoe of 1uch                     I   I   I   I   I   I   I                           >LA  
~PD.R ..              5c.th CIsc
KILOMETERS                                  *                NADRA,     Sec              PHIlUPPINES
FEBRUARY 196



IBRD 2769E
RUSSIAN
_. FEDERATION                                                                                     CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
't   MONGOLIA      -_t'    '>{,E'')II,9'N>'''J/'\';22    W                         HENAN   PROVINCE
S >   Xt 92 6Qt,iE   ea0r a!           PROJECT COUNTIES
- .bW iA.  ' . _ ._ . _  . - - / ;o C'' -n''  V  '  ;   ai P p ahF b on   JA P A N i D     P R O V IN C E   C A P IT A L
REP: ®< .g-<>   tNATIONAL CAPITAL
s   0  .;P;  , -......ye/o,                                            COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
,'j2,;,>s,     -, fSHANXI  0 5 0    Seo   <   w5fr                            PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
'  A -XI4' hN 1'c' '     Eo i                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
P~ ~ ~ ~~; ;:mp   e       s'        hn         
Nor,oooI  CAZr. 51CHUA/d 4/AN
* Notbonol Coprro       0        t  9         />          PACIFIC
PrOun8VrreS   Y,rrrA/N .            Ck)AKrD                     OCfEAN
-. - loternotionol   _   tC                       TVIET  MACAO K   T.
LAOr-    Soutf China
rr~pn Sea            HIIJPPNIES
\Ir hbo-ndort- colr, de.nom.natros- ndany er.r inmrao. \  /
|ih-own o- thi, rop do -ot irply or phie Pat of Th. WoaIr rank                                    TAIQIAN
Gro-p o-y jcdgneon or the bga/ st6er, of ory *,rnsry at any -y
rdorsemern or rnoceptanct of sh boondarr.s b-/
j   S,'UANXI                                                  ,
/                      ftK              w5hQA  t >         _                                                           X~~~~~~ N-
V G /  X     f N 'E GZHENGZHOVU iHE_
MifAfS0Nf MENGJiN   I      ,, A     E l- ) .       -                  NlNGflNG
USHI    )J                 RUANG/          BA{ '.WYAN
SHAANXI   t      XiXiA              NANZHAO                      '-. \I          SHANG CAIt
),                                                             YUCHENG_ P)NGYU
--AN                                        XINCA
t                    \    >                  NANYANG            \            QUESHANXJAN
-/ CU-ANCHUAN1                 T8L9- eF       9          {                           HUAIBIN
_   5x    C)  (                           W              1 XfNYANG   @                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUSHI 
LUSHANGUANGSHAN
SHAANXI      ANANZHGLCOSHAN                                                SHANGCHENG
NEV0 20                      HUBFI E                              \XXNXIAN            7
KILOMETERS                                        
FEBRUARY 1996



CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
JILIN PROVINCE
PROJECT COUNTIES                                                                                                                                           \ 5Y,
PROJECT COUNTIES HAVING > 10%
MINORITY POPULATION
(®   PROVINCE CAPITAL
®    NATIONAL CAPITAL
COUNTY (XLAN) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      *
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                      *
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                           CHANGCHUNe
0              100              200             300                                                                                                                     '
L           ~     ~~I    IT
KJLOMETERS                                                                                                                                j
RUSSIAN                                                                                             .
,_      FEDERATION
'1             -  -''        i        '.-.**.   \                                                                                        _,
MONGOUA
D P R, OF
X~~M  . _       ';9,<          L- /OR*             JAPAN                                                         {       t._     
4\  ^            KOREA
REP OF
KOREA                                                                 /
STTAIXI                                                                                                                                          2 _'  A_t-/
5~ .xl                                                                                       DEM  . PEOPLE 'S .- 
XIZAITA                                                                                                                 REP. OF  KOREA
aJIZ                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~/
* Nohol Cop,ll
-r Proonle    YLONAN                           TAIWAN                                                I
p--~~ C
C  - - Iotooroooool  ' ~ ~ ~    HW,  0"u'.  Krho b-one,                                                                                                              -yo~. nfon o opo#- f-r,t-.o
> - - Bonodonshe    l                   * CAO PORT                                                                                                      - - he op do -orr-ply oon poyt f The Wd
-(         *~~~~~~L -AM                                                                                                                         GroP, ooyo fg-f o oth~ g/owepooto(-yrr-boy on-oop' J
-     _P Do R                       PHIUPPINES                                                                                    endonntor OOTrroT  nh bound=rs 
rn   >  ,.;                                                                                                                                 l<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
QINGHAI PROVINCE
PROJECT COUNTIES
PROJECT COUNTIES HAVINGF> I>0%
* MNORIlY POPULATION                                                                                                                                    k 
@     PROVINCE CAPITAL
6     NATIONAL CAPITAL
/   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~~~~~XNIN%
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
t: X *
\                                                       ,                                      \      *
RUSSIAN
-  _    FEDERATION                                     -        /
:6 - '~ ~            -  .-!'_^   -,,                                --                                                                . . 
MONGOUA                  '       '  '- -  ^                     /              .^- :                         *     ,t
VNA.WG                         UAOPOWt ~~~~I        JAPAN
,*~-    t/;f-e ''      OP z  P.R OF                                                                                                 K
.' , , ' ~~~~~~~~~KOREA*>% 
\   j75   PE'S   '9AA~~~5NX ;       _/      
'     M2 'C   AN  S'          7i  -
x ZA7 ' 
* NNohoIl C.poim
P nce       tNN                                TAWAN_
TTT   nBd,                   :*ANGAX,  GUAIX0WW
>   houncbr-e.   5   '\' /  ~'        rtAAC     o   u                           0           i C         200         300         400                      ThU    udo,es c°6,  denomd  -Uy  #-
~  IO~7~dOAH~      .NAM             SCO(*                                                                                                                                 7t0rw&,~
-             *PDR~~~LA                                                                           KILOMETERS                                           G-p              1 o 9 I  lfepol ooo -FrY Welio~' o1 -~Y    N
'C                                                                                                                                                   NJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
a         X 1 P D R ,_8   HAI~UNAN                PHILIPPINES                                                                               I       ndorsemtnet or Qcceprortce 01 o,dIr boondore, .  



IMAGING
Report No:       15099 CHA
Type: SAR






