Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24247
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28310; TF-29177)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 67.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
June 25, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of June 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan-RMBY
RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEIII - Third Basic Education Project
CAS    = Country Assistance Strategy
CEP    = Chinese Experts Panel
EMIS   = Education Management Information System
FILO   = Foreign Investment and Loan Office
GOC    = Govemment of China
IDF    = Institutional Development Fund
MOE    = Ministry of Education
MOF    = Ministry of Finance
NYCE = Nine-Year Compulsory Education Program
SAR    = Staff Appraisal Report
SEdC   = State Education Commission
TTL    = Task Team Leader
UBE    = Universal Basic Education
WBOB = World Bank Beijing Office
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:   Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Halsey L. Beemer, Jr.



CHINA
CN-BASIC ED. POOR III
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                    I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                        14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             24
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Contribution                                              25






Project ID: P036950                                       Project Name: Third Basic Education
Team Leader: Halsey L. Beemer                             TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 25, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Third Basic Education                          LIC/TFNumber: IDA-28310; TF-29177
Country/Department: CHINA                                                Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/07/1995                             Effective: 07/16/1996         07/16/1996
Appraisal:  10/19/1995                                MTR: 10/01/1998           09/12/1998
Approval:  03/21/1996                              Closing:  12/31/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  PRC/SEDC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell J. Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Jimenez                         Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:  Halsey L. Beemer                          Halsey L. Beemer
ICR Primary Author:   Sandra F. Erb
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. In 1995, the Chinese Ministry of Education (MOE) and the World Bank began work on what
was to be the third basic education project in a program of basic education projects. When the
identification and design work began for the Third Basic Education (BEIII) Project, the government's
policies continued to place greatest priority on the achievement of universal basic education (UBE) by the
year 2000 or as soon as it was practical in poor and remote areas in order to support China's goal of
development, modernization and eliminate illiteracy. This government priority drove both targeting and
design issues and, after working with the Bank project development team, enabled the MOE to set the
project objectives which were to: (a) support the attainment of universal primary education and the
expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and minority areas, and (b) build stronger
institutions responsible for education delivery.
These objectives reflected MOE policies to accelerate education decentralization by establishing broad
principles to guide provincial and local governments in developing their county and village level education
services; to implement the Compulsory Education Law using the resources available, and pursue their own
educational targets, according to their own means. Important in this process was improving the targeting of
education financing to the poorest populations in a province, increasing the efficiency of the use of these
funds, and utilizing available intergovernmental transfer mechanisms to achieve these objectives. The
objectives also fit squarely within Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which gave attention to: (a)
efficient resource use, including utilization of teachers and facilities; (b) more equitable funding
mechanisms, targeted to basic education in poor rural areas; and (c) support for institution building to
increase the capacity of education authorities at all levels to carry out their responsibilities within an
increasing operational decentralization.
3 2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Institutional Development
Cost: US$ 142.5 million
The institutional development component included facilities upgrading, improvement in instructional
equipment within primary and junior secondary schools, and training of classroom teachers, school
principals and local education administrators to provide better instruction in and leadership of the education
institutions at the provincial, county and village levels. This component also supported the procurement of
tent schools and the development of a distance education system in Qinghai Province in order to meet the
special characteristics and needs of the nomadic peoples on the Tibetan Plateau.
Component 2. Management Improvement
Cost: US$ 1.2 million
The management improvement component was to develop management capabilities for the education
system at the central, provincial, county and institutional levels through staff training, the provision of
equipment and expert services. Training was provided to local education management authorities and local
project implementation staff. There was also a provision for the development of an education management
information system (EMIS).
Component 3. Central Component
Cost: US$ 4.7 million
-2-



The central component supported national level management training for provincial trainers, education
managers and administrators and project implementation staff; dissemination of good results of previous
educational experiments; a national level study of student assessment; monitoring of the most efficient way
to establish a student assistance program and the activities of the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP).
The design of the three components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The credit
focused on the improvement of facilities to address access issues in poor and remote areas and training at
all levels of the education systems in an effort to strengthen the institutions responsible for the delivery of
education. In addition, the credit gave local education authorities the opportunity to disseminate good
results of educational experiments related to enrollment, retention and quality improvement in the
classroom.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                               Cost                Rating
INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT                                $142,500,000.00      S
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT                        $1,200,000.00       S
CENTRAL COMPONENT;                                      $4,700,000.00       S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry, as assessed by the peer reviewers, was satisfactory based on (i) consistency of objectives
with the priorities of the Ministry of Education (MOE); (ii) successful experience and lessons learned by
the first two basic education project which were being implemented at the time of project design; (iii)
demonstrated capacity of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO)/MOE to implement previous
projects; and (iv) project design that was related to MOE decentralization policies and practices.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and physical outputs under the Third Basic Education (BEIII) project is
satisfactory. The project took place during and in support of the government's own massive effort during
the 1990s to accelerate the achievement of the national nine-year compulsory education goals. The project
objectives were broad and flexible enough to allow provinces and counties to implement the Compulsory
Education Law and to accelerate the completion, at the county level, of the government's Nine Year
Compulsory Education (NYCE) program. All of this in accordance with China's unique minority and
regional characteristics and within the context of a rapidly decentralizing basic education system. In the
end, the MOE reported that the project accelerated, in some cases by two years, the achievement of
universal primary education in 18 of the 124 project counties (14.5 percent) and the achievement of
nine-year compulsory education in 99 (79.8 percent) of the counties. The project also assisted five of the
seven provinces to reach the two basics which are: nine year compulsory education and elimination of
illiteracy among the young and middle-aged adults. The MOE uses a rigorous review methodology in order
to certify an individual county's achievement of either primary or basic education goals. This methodology
not only uses reported educational data but also makes use of site visits to the counties under review. The
certification methodology has been reviewed and reported on by the Institute of Higher Education at Peking
University and the Shanghai Academy of Educational Research, found to be reliable and provides an
accurate description of an individual county's achievement of either the six or nine year compulsory
education goals.
The physical output targets for all provinces in primary and junior secondary were met and in some cases
exceeded. During the project period, project-supported primary school enrollment rates increased from
88.3 to 95.2 percent and lower secondary enrollment rates increased by 66.3 percent to 87.9 percent.
- 3-



Output indicators showed robust improvements in safety of buildings, supply of teaching materials,
enrollment of children, and qualifications of teachers and principals. There has been the institutionalization
of a systematic management system for the delivery of education services at the local level. The
dissemination program met expectations in spreading of provincial based research results to project schools
in areas such as girls education, multi-grade teaching and prevocational education in lower secondary
schools. The heavy poverty focus and the success in securing adequate counterpart funding for student
assistance funds allowed for large numbers of poor children to enroll and stay in school. The project
helped minority education in Qinghai province by the development and distribution of minority language
textbooks and teaching materials and providing training for minority teachers and principals, the provision
of environmentally and culturally appropriate classrooms and teaching spaces, and the development of a
distance education system using both Tibetan and Han language teaching materials.
During the implementation of the project there was a strong emphasis by the project provinces on
investment inputs. Project design and the Chinese policy for expanding education in poor rural areas
placed heavy weight on increasing inputs which would help ensure increased access with less regard to
educational outcomes. However, this project also included the first learning achievement indicators, based
on pass rates of grade six children, to be included in any of the Bank-supported basic education projects in
China, and over the life of the project they have shown steady improvement with mathematics pass rates
increasing from 88.0 to 96.2 percent and Chinese pass rates from 89.9 to 97.1 percent. Anecdotal
evidence shows that these increases can be attributed to improved teaching due to improvements in teacher
qualification rates, 79.9 to 94.9 percent over the life of the project, and improved materials i.e. books and
teaching equipment.
4.2 Outputs bY components:
Institutional Component (US$ 142.5 million SAR, US$206.99 million Actual)
The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. This component was 96 percent of base costs and
supported the following: (a) facilities upgrading; (b) instructional equipment, furniture and books; and (c)
staff upgrading.
Facilities Upgrading. Facilities upgrading was highly successful. The project supported the new
construction and replacement of 4,695 new primary and lower secondary schools and repair of 2,966 more
schools. In all provinces there was successful completion of the civil works portion of the project with all
project provinces meeting or slightly exceeding their original targets for new construction, rehabilitation
and elimination of dangerous buildings. Site visits by Bank supervision missions and civil works
specialists from the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) showed that on average overall quality of construction
was good to very good with little extra funds spent on decoration and substantial attention given to
indigenous designs to deal with local climatic, physical and cultural conditions. The new buildings have
provided adequate, safe and hospitable space for village children to attend school, and the parents, teachers
and principals interviewed indicated that the new buildings encouraged children to attend and stay in
school. Maintenance plans, most for the five years after project completion, have been developed by all
project provinces and are well documented in their individual provincial project completion reports. The
plans have designated an annual allocation that seems to be adequate to cover the maintenance cost of the
newly constructed schools. In addition, the central government has also recently initiated the National
School Construction Fund and some of these resources will be eannarked for maintenance of these
buildings and thus sustain the investments made by this project.
Instructional equipment, furniture and books. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Prior to the
BEIII project, schools in the project areas had been seriously disadvantaged because there had been no
investments in teaching equipment for 10 years. This project was able to provide approximately 16,000
- 4 -



primary and lower secondary schools with MOE [formnerly State Education Commission (SEdC)] standard
equipment levels, or 100 percent of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) target. (MOE classifies equipment
needs ("Standard Levels") by school size, centrality and teacher training responsibility, conducts periodic
surveys to assess current levels and new procurement needs, and did, for this project identified specific
requirements for project supported schools.) Even though the schools have achieved great progress in
meeting the MOE standards, the utilization rate of books and equipment needs to be increased. Science
teachers and librarians have been trained but there is still reluctance on the part of principals and teachers
to use the equipment and books for fear equipment will be broken and books lost or destroyed. These
attitudes will need to be changed through continued principal and teacher training as well as assurance that
adequate resources will be made available to the school principals to replace damaged materials.
Staff Upgrading. This subcomponent is also rated satisfactory although there were weaknesses in design
and delivery of these services. Teacher and education administrator training goals were exceeded by 36
and 5 percent respectively. Project indicators show that all the project provinces have experienced
increases - 18 percent on average above SAR targets - in the qualification rate of teachers which has meant
a reduction in the number of minban teachers. (Minban teachers are hired and paid by the local
communities, generally village education committees, and generally do not have the years of formal
education and training that governnent teachers do. The Ministry of Education, working closely with
provincial education bureaus, has over the recent years upgraded the quality of the minban teachers by
special training and other upgrading programs and have all but eliminated this type of teachers in the
provinces supported by this project.) Whereas numerical targets were met or surpassed, training
methodology and pedagogy have been recognized as problematic. Training programs are generally set by
formulae provided by the province which often follow the national standards and show little understanding
of the deeper sense of innovative teacher behavior or teaching theories. School principals have little contact
with the normal schools and colleges which provide the training. Normal schools and 2-3 year teachers
colleges which are responsible for teacher training services are generally run by prefecture education
bureaus and four year colleges by the province. Therefore horizontal linkages between the supply and
demand of the services at the county or village level is lacking and training services often ill designed or
poorly delivered. Cascade system of teacher training services demonstrate their inherent weaknesses in
such cases. However, as the project was ending, a new national curriculum along with new training
materials and delivery mechanisms were being prepared. The training materials and delivery mechanisms
have been prepared with the assistance of international organizations and will be used in rural areas to give
teachers the appropriate skills to better teach in their local environment. This will have tremendous impact
at the local level as provinces and counties begin to use the new materials.
Principal training targets also met or exceed targets. Principal training conducted at the national level was
reported to have had a substantial impact on broadening the thinking and experience of rural school
principals. Anecdotal evidence shows that school management was improved as a result of training.
Management Improvement Component (US$ 1.2 million SAR, US$ 1.41 million actual)
The overall rating of this component is highly satisfactory. This component was designed to develop
management capabilities for the education system at the central, provincial and institutional levels through
staff training and the development of Education Management Information Systems (EMIS). The
educational management system introduced by the project consisted of national, provincial and county level
project implementation units. These units were responsible for project design issues during preparation,
project procurement and financing issues during implementation and project monitoring and reporting
throughout implementation. Provision of adequate levels of counterpart funding were the responsibility of
these implementation units at the provincial and county level. Project planning and decisions on staff
training were handled by these units. Gathering data for mid-term and final reviews was carried out by
- 5 -



these units as well as reviewing progress toward achieving objectives. Project implementation training not
only gave the local staff adequate skills to implement the project but also institutionalized a system of
management for the delivery of education services at the local level. This was judged by the Government of
China (GOC) and the provinces during the final ICR mission as one of the major contributions of this
project. Because of the improved capacity of the project staff, the seven project provinces are using
implementation staff and offices for the implementation of the Chinese govemment's own Nine Year
Compulsory Education Program - Phase Two (2001-2006) (NYCE-II) as well as other provincial and
county level poverty-alleviation focused activities both within and outside the education sector. This
utilization of Bank and MOE trained provincial staff in activities outside the education sector should be
seen as a major contribution to provincial level institutional capacity building. In addition, several
provinces have reported the introduction of World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures into
their own provincial procedures as the result of the training in and utilization of these procedures during the
implementation of the Third Basic Education Project.
In addition to project-supported training, the provincial implementation staff were trained through an IDF
grant-supported Economics of Education Network (the Network) which provided them with knowledge on
modem techniques and methods in education management and resource utilization. This training utilized
interactive computer-based study modules developed by the East Asia Human Development Sector Unit
(EASHD) and the World Bank Institute (WBI) for analyzing provincial level education financing options.
As a result of all of the training, provincial education managers are demonstrating a more thorough
understanding of how better to manage their education finance systems, although it is less clear that the
network has yet had substantial impact at the county level.
EMIS was organized in each province, region and municipality, equipment bought and installed and
training was completed. It is evident from the increasingly improved statistical reporting provided the Bank
during project implementation, that the equipment, software and training have had a strong impact on
provincial project implementation. However, utilization of data for analytical purposes and to inform
policy making at the local level is not yet obvious. Additional work needs to be done in this area, but as
has been demonstrated in earlier Bank-supported education projects, full, useful and sophisticated
utilization of education statistics depends largely on the needs for and uses made of this data by education
administrators. Without the appropriate incentive structure for the demand of proper data reporting there
will be little change in this area.
Central Component. (US$ 4.7 million SAR, US$ 5.24 million actual)
The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. This component was designed to: (a) provide national
level management training for local education; (b) support dissemination of good results of previous
educational experiments; (c) carry out a national level study of student assessment; (d) monitor the most
efficient way to establish a student assistance program; and (e) support activities of the Chinese Experts
Panel (CEP).
Pupil Learning Achievement Study. This sub-component is rated marginally satisfactory. The study
assessed grade five learning achievement in Mathematics, Chinese and General Knowledge (regarding
health, safety, and labor). The study attempted to associate differences in learning achievement with
region, place of residence, family background and teaching practices. However, the sampling techniques
used were questionable. Sampling was not random. Tests were administered in two counties in each
province. County officials were asked to choose teachers with more than five years experience whose
students would then be tested. Comparability and objectivity in the study were therefore compromised
since there was no way to know if counties choose the best, the worst, or a representative sample of
-6 -



teachers. Even so, a number of useful conclusions emerged which the provinces reportedly have taken into
consideration when designing their own education development programs. These new designs include: (a)
more investments in schools and teachers in the poorer and more remote areas; (b) teacher training
programs which encourage addressing a special problem identified in the study, the finding that students
who struggle in Mathematics also struggle with Chinese language; (c) more extracurricular activities and
homework assignments because the report found that students with more extracurricular activities and
homework had higher achievement levels; and (d) more focus on parental participation in their children's
learning because the study showed that students whose parents have high expectations of them tended to
perform better than students whose parents had lower expectations.
Dissemination Program. This sub-component is judged to be satisfactory. The dissemination program
was designed to spread knowledge and experience and use the results from successful pilot programs and
research. All provinces participated in the dissemination program and experienced success in spreading
their findings on programs related to education for disabled children, bilingual education, girls education,
multi-grade education and prevocational education in lower secondary schools. In one province,
dissemination funds were used to spread a UNICEF-sponsored initiative to create "parent schools" that
helped teach parents about the importance of schooling as well as how to help their children in their school
work. The dissemination of "parent schools" is also directly related to the findings of the above mentioned
pupil learning achievement study.
Chinese Experts Panel. This sub-component is rated satisfactory. The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
consisted of five educators who provided ongoing guidance and advice to MOE and the provinces on
project implementation and policy issues related to the project. The CEP played an important role in
project implementation by participating in semi-annual site visits, providing policy advice on such things as
teacher education as well as assisting provinces in redirection of resources when their local situation
warranted changes. Several provinces specifically commented on the instrumental work of the CEP in the
introduction of distance learning programs (Qinghai) and primary school management (Fujian).
Student Assistance Programs. This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Counterpart funds for this
sub-component were put into a trust fund and the interest proceeds from the trust fund were to be used to
provide assistance to approximately 230,000 primary and lower secondary students from poor
backgrounds. Students were not to receive cash payments, but rather depending on individual need, they
received varying amounts of reduction in their payment for school textbook costs, miscellaneous school
fees and other schooling related costs. However, the trust funds were small and over the life of the project
interest rates decreased substantially which meant that fewer students were assisted through the accrued
interest payments than was originally anticipated. Despite the decrease in interest payments the overall
number of students assisted by the provinces through some form of student assistance did increase to
approximately 364,000 over the life of the project. This was due to the fact that provinces provide more
direct government support. The successful rating of this sub-component is not based on how well the trust
funds operated but rather the recognition by provinces that education fees are a substantial part of the
household financial burden of education for poor families, and that the provinces increasingly recognized
that the provision of direct assistance is necessary to keep children in school. The project thus, helped
establish and institutionalize regular systems of student assistance, largely financed by provincial and
county recurrent budgets and social donations which allowed, and will continue to allow, more children
from poor households to enroll in and complete primary and lower secondary education programs.
Since BEIII was designed and implemented the GOC designed its own NYCE-I1, which is an
intergovernmental grant program, and has allocated a larger percentage of their resources to student
assistance. There is a growing recognition in China that student fees are a key factor in low enrollment and
- 7 -



high drop rates and therefore, they have made a larger commitment to reduce the household burden of
education in the rural areas.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was satisfactory. The BEIII project was used by the MOE as a
reference for the development and implementation of the Nine-Year Compulsory Education Program
(1995-2000) (NYCE-I) which was supported by the intergovernmental transfer system. The NYCE-II
continued the work of NYCE but changed its distribution percentages for project components. The
NYCE-I1 has allocated a much higher percentage for student assistance based on the initial findings in the
household survey conducted in BEIII as well as the student assistance component initiated under this
project. This project also institutionalized an education management system in the project provinces that
will continue to be responsible for the delivery of education as well as other social services. In addition, 94
percent of the project-supported counties have been able to build their primary education systems so that
they meet, and in some cases exceed, the MOE minimum services standards for delivery of education. This
allowed project-supported counties to accelerate by as much as two years achieving universal primary
education as defined by the Central government and was a project goal, and in approximately 78 percent of
the counties, NYCE which is now a national education goal.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementinig agency:
Currency fluctuation of the SDR reduced the overall level of funding available from the Credit. Although
this did not have a negative impact on project implementation, it did require additional counterpart money
thereby placing some additional burden on poor counties to cover the costs of the exchange rate losses in
order to achieve the various numerical and quality input targets set during project design. All counterpart
funding targets were met or exceeded although as a disproportionately heavy burden on county finances as
opposed to provincial or national finances.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to government control:
Project implementation went well with few problems encountered. Project management at all levels was
strong and efficient. This can be seen by the fact that at mid-tenn disbursements had reached
approximately 76 percent of the IDA funds and project indicators for other deliverables were substantially
ahead of schedule. However, the process by which the Ministry of Finance (MOF) responded to
reimbursement requests from counties could have been improved and the delivery of this service
accelerated. It was reported that some counties, during the life of the project, borrowed from commercial
banks in order to cover expenses due to long lags in the reimbursement process. Poor counties have few
resources and borrowing at short-term commercial rates offsets any potential benefit from an IDA credit.
During the implementation of the project, the National Audit Bureau and the individual provincial audit
departments improved their audit coverage providing both the MOE's national implementing unit and the
Bank supervision teams with additional tools with which to monitor the financial flows of the project thus
reducing the incidence of misuse of project funds and the periodic shortfalls in counterpart funding
provision. The strengthening of the national and provincial audit system was an important element of the
government's ongoing concern to improve the quality of provincial and county level implementation of
- 8 -



Bank-supported projects.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment and efficient and good leadership with effective problem solving demonstrated by
MOE/FILO provided the foundation for implementation to continuously exceed SAR targets with regard to
human resource development, performance monitoring and project coordination. FILO has a long history
of effective project implementation and was able to work with provinces and counties to institutionalize
strong project management units. The CEP consistently added value to supervision in such areas as
teacher training activities and advice on reallocating project resources when local situations warranted such
changes.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
By the completion of the project, the project disbursed 67.07 million SDRs of the original 67.3 million
SDRs. SDRs 228,011.64 or US$ 289,066.32 equivalent were not disbursed and cancelled effective May
3, 2002. In addition, the fluctuations of the US Dollar exchange rate with the SDR during the project
meant that the total US Dollars disbursed from the credit were US$91.8 million and not the US$100
million estimated at appraisal.
The current project cost, US$ 213.63 million, is somewhat higher than the SAR estimate of US$ 191.8
million. Most of the increase in the project cost is a reflection of the fact that Henan Province almost
doubled its counterpart funding from the planned amount of US$ 21.8 million. All the other project
provinces increased their counterpart funding but only to make up for the dollar losses in project financing
which resulted from SDR:US$ exchange rate losses during the project. Counterpart funding for project
investments came from the province, prefecture and county and the amount of counterpart funding raised,
except in the case of Henan, seemed to be at a level that was based on the financial analysis conducted
during project preparation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The provinces have recognized the need for continuing support of the project schools from the inception of
the project by providing a yearly maintenance plan for civil works, equipment and teachers training. Future
sustainability plans have been provided by each province as an annex to the borrower portion of the ICR.
The project has demonstrated the usefulness of project development and implementation approach modeled
after Bank methods for the support of the government's own nine-year compulsory education program.
With participation of these provinces in later Bank-supported projects as well as the MOE National
Nine-Year Compulsory Education Project - Phase Two (2001-2006) and the National School
Rehabilitation program, there is a high assurance that they will continue to support the project schools in
the coming years. Due to the low population growth in China there will not be a rapid increase in the
primary and lower secondary school enrollments; therefore more attention can be given to maintenance of
the system rather than expansion of the system.
Throughout the project implementation the provinces and counties proved their commitment to the project
by giving their financial support and management support to all the project activities. However, new
changes in the county level revenue system which eliminate education surcharges in favor of a
comprehensive country-wide tax system has had a negative impact on education financing at the county
level. This is being monitored carefully by the State Council, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOE so that
appropriate adjustments in intergovernmental transfers can be made so as to offset some of the negative
impact of the new tax system.
-9-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities have been fully integrated into the regular operations of the provinces and counties.
This project was designed to fit into the MOE's overall plans to achieve NYCE therefore, there is no need
for special transition arrangements. The Government of China's (GOC) goals for achieving NYCE are
well articulated and resources, both human and financial, have been allocated within the GOC to continue
and expand their efforts. The GOC has just launched a 10 year program for the development of the
"Western Areas" and these project provinces and their educational needs fit squarely within the Western
Areas Development Program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank lending in this sector, as well as AAA work, has covered all education sub-sectors and provided the
foundation for ongoing policy dialogue and guidance for the whole sector. The Bank's focus on basic
education, which has been programmatic in its coverage but project focused in its delivery, has been able to
support incremental steps forward in reforming and improving education financing, poverty targeting, and
the design of poverty focused projects. Working with the borrower on assessment of these issues has kept
the Bank engaged in this sub-sector where the borrower has said that project financing is less important
than access, at the provincial level, to new ideas and relevant international experience. Bank lending has
also provided incremental additional funding for the challenges of increasing educational access for poor
and minority children in the poorest parts of China where the costs for providing that access is high and
availability of local funds, especially at the county level, problematic.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision has been robust, focused and diligent, identifying and resolving educational as well as
financial management and procurement problems. Cluster supervision of currently implementing basic
education projects and heavy use of WBOB staff have brought both efficiencies and synergies to the
supervision process. The mission's heavy reliance on county and provincial audit materials and reports
augmented the supervision process in a way that strengthened the local government's own responsibility for
managing and implementing these projects. The pace of the Bank's supervision missions slackened
somewhat during the final stages of the project. At mid-term, in September 1998, 75.4 percent of the
project credit had been disbursed. By May 1999 more than 90 percent had been disbursed and an equal
percentage of project activities completed. During FY00 lack of EASHD budget caused the cancelation of
a scheduled supervision mission and by January 2001, 97 percent of the project was completed. The
lessened level of supervision during the latter stages of the project does not seem to have negatively affected
the quality of project implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were fielded
with many members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision missions included the required
expertise and local staff monitored project activities when necessary.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Department of Finance of MOE coordinated with the Provincial, Municipal and County Education
Bureaus to carefully develop proposals and collect the necessary data and informnation for project
preparation. They also fielded a comprehensive team of Chinese experts that comprised educators and
specialists with previous Bank project implementation expertise to assist in the development of the project.
These individuals continued to provide advise to MOE during implementation as members of the Chinese
- 10 -



Experts Panel. Government of China goals for this project were clearly articulated from the start and
consistently supported by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning (and
Development) Commission and all the provincial and county units with which the preparation team worked.
7.5 Governmnent implementation performance:
The overall government implementation performance was highly satisfactory. The Government of China,
at both the national and provincial levels, has 20 years experience with implementation of Bank-support
education projects. GOC at all levels within MOF and MOE has established institutions that understand
the intricacies of Bank-supported projects which facilitates the smooth implementation of education
projects. The borrower also provided the necessary counterpart funds to complete all project-supported
activities. The flow of reimbursements through the finance bureaus at the provincial and county level could
have been quicker. This would have eliminated the need for poor counties to borrow at commercial rates to
pay for outstanding contractual commitments. Of special note is the proactive way in which the MOE,
working in consort with the MOF and the State Audit Bureau, identified and took corrective action when it
became evident that a case of misuse of project funds was discovered. The misuse of project funds was
revealed in provincial audits which listed an incident of use of project funds to pay for non-project cadre,
economic development projects and the construction of non-project schools. The diversion of project funds
was of short duration [three months] but this forced county level implementation units into the commercial
banking sector to borrow to pay for civil works contracts. When the misuse was discovered, the MOF and
Audit Bureaus at national and provincial levels forced the return of the funds and the resumption of normal
disbursement cycles.
It is interesting to note that the MOE, during project implementation, worked with the Ministry of Finance
to develop an intergovernmental transfer system which provided central education budget funds directly to
targeted poor counties. In so doing, the MOE and Ministry of Finance (MOF) took the model of the World
Bank's project design, development and implementation and applied it to the design of their own poverty
focused education fund, requiring counties and provinces to prepare project proposals which included
education and financing targets, monitorable indicators and annual review of action plans and budgets.
This design, which is largely consistent with project development models from the World Bank, remains in
place and has been expanded to an additional central intergovernmental transfer progran, started in 2001,
which deals specifically with school repair and construction in poor areas.
7.6 Imnplementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency was highly successful. The implementing agency at
the center - the MOE's FILO and their partners at the provincial level - the Provincial World Bank
Project Implementation Units - provided consistently good direction and support for the implementation of
the project. FILO organized and ran, with help from the World Bank Office Beijing (WBOB) staff, a
number of provincial level training programs for procurement and financial management. Several of these
training programs had to be repeated because of staff changes in the provincial level implementing units.
FILO worked closely with the WBOB and the Task Team Leader (TTL) to develop and implement a prior
review system of procurement which was highly successful and produced a virtually flawless procurement
process with no mis-procurements. Likewise, working closely with the WBOB staff and the TTL and the
State Audit Bureau, FILO was able to monitor closely the flows of project financing and ensure that cases
of misuse of project funds were dealt with quickly and successfully. In addition, FILO's monitoring of the
counterpart provision was persistent and ongoing with good results. Toward the end of the project the
direct and personal involvement of the FILO Deputy Director in the supervision of the project was a
welcome addition in that it helped sustain provincial attention on the need to maintain implementation rigor
up until the final days of the project. All in all, the service of the implementing agency was excellent.
- 1 1 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. In line with a good record in designing, preparing
and implementing the IDA assisted education project, the MOE demonstrated satisfactory performance in
preparing and implementing this project.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Poverty focused social service delivery projects should be increasingly targeted at the township rather
than the county level. With more than half of China's absolute poor living outside the 592 nationally
designated counties, targeting at the poor township level will more effectively include larger
percentages of the absolute poor. However, in that townships lack the adequate administrative capacity
to manage such poverty targeted projects, the counties should be given chief administrative
responsibility for such projects;
*   Policy changes and institutionalization of programs, such as student assistance programs, can be
realized when the appropriate survey work is conducted and pilot programs are developed and tested
based on survey work. This project contributed to the recognition by provinces that education fees are
a substantial financial burden on households and that provinces needed to provide direct assistance to
students in order to keep them in school. It also contributed to the recognition at the national level that
their own NYCE-II program should include a larger percentage of the fund to student assistance
support;
*   Limited use of library books and teaching equipment, even after training librarians and teachers on the
use of the books and equipment, is a problem in many project-supported schools. Librarians and
teachers must be released from the personal responsibility for the books and equipment if the full
utilization of these materials are to be realized.
*   Project management training can contribute to the institutionalization of a system of management when
such training is conducted over the life of a project. This Bank-supported project provided such
training and gave local staff skills to implement this project, the government's own NYCE-I1 program
and county level poverty alleviation projects;
*   The key issue in developing education projects at the provincial, county and township levels is to
convince the Chinese preparation teams that focusing on development outcomes is more important then
emphasis on investment inputs;
*   Establishing experts panels with a broad range of educational skills from the start of the targeting
exercise ensures the project of some balance in educational, financial and staffing needs. These panels
are useful in reviewing provincial proposals, supervising the implementation of projects, assessing
progress at mid term and with the final completion reports. Responsible to the provincial and/or
national education authorities, they can be used to do studies which can change the direction of projects
under implementation, give added emphasis to an element and provide technical advice to county and
school level educators;
*   Teacher and staff training components have been chronically weak in Bank supported basic education
projects. Training programs are generally set by formulae which follow national standards rather than
provincial needs. School principals have little contact with the normal schools and colleges which
provide the training. Normal schools have few horizontal links with the counties and villages where the
- 12-



of the services comes from. This should be considered carefully in the development of any new project.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) are critical aspects of any project and in education projects,
educational outcomes should play a strong role in any M&E system. Bank-supported education
projects in China, from the start of Basic Education I through the preparation of Basic Education IV,
have increasingly moved away from only monitoring inputs, but not enough progress has been made in
instituting a rigorous evaluation system which takes educational outcomes as the predominant
monitoring factor. This should change in any future education projects, and a more rigorous evaluation
system put in place with a strong focus on education outcomes.
*   Education Management Information Systems (EMIS) are only useful when data gathered is accurate
and is used by decision makers. The current system in China provides perverse incentives for the
reporting of such data (i.e., initial enrollments are exaggerated to achieve targets set by provincial and
national govemments; local cadre's job reviews report on achievement of enrollment targets rather than
educational outcomes). Much of the data reported in the EMIS system does not seem to be used by
government officials at the provincial and county levels because it is so soft as to make the use suspect.
Without changes in the incentive systems, the current EMIS system is seriously flawed and should be
reformed.
*   Because of US$:SDR exchange rate fluctuations during the implementation of the project, provinces
and counties had to provide increased amounts of counterpart funding over and above the amounts
proposed during project appraisal in order to fully finance project investments. The additional
financial burden on the poor provinces and counties could be eliminated if the central government
assumed responsibility for exchange rate risks.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
All project components were accomplished and satisfactory. The implementation of the project has greatly
improved the school conditions and teaching quality in poor and minority areas, and has played an
important role in the acceleration of the universalization of nine-year elementary compulsory education in
poor areas. The project was carried on smoothly during the implementation period and the implementation
quality was generally good. All project output targets were met and some were even exceeded.
The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO/MOE) strengthened the national level management training
early in the project, in which FILO not only invited the staff from the Basic Education projects such as
EDPP Project to introduce their experiences and lessons on project implementation, but also invited the
experts from the Ministry of Education to give lectures on the theories and practices of education
management and reform. FILO also organized the study tours, and provided a lot of guidance to the
project provincial dissemination programs and project procurement of civil works and goods. FILO
fulfilled its task in project supervision, providing constructive suggestions and recommendations to project
units, and having good coordination with departments concemed. On the whole, the Ministry of Education
has fulfilled its duties in project implementation and management.
The World Bank (WB) officials and consultants sent to China are all possessed with high professional and
management ability. They had worked harmoniously with the Chinese Counterparts. FILO/MOE have
very good cooperation with the Bank in implementation period. From the beginning of the project, the task
manager of the World Bank and Bank consultants have been paying much attention to the quality of the
project. They provided lots of valuable suggestions and recommendations during the site visits to the
- 13 -



project provinces and helped provinces solve problems appeared in the implementation period, which
guaranteed the smooth implementation of the project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
- 14-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
This project was developed prior to the new logframe indicator format and therefore the indicators listed
below do not fit the new logframe format. However, this project was the first basic education project in
China to include achievement indicators thereby giving a limited view of project outcomes. Indicators to
measure individual provincial education progress rather than overall project indicators were developed at
the start of implementation. Therefore, project indicators provided below are indicative, taken from only
one project province, Hebei Province. Other specific provincial indicators can be found in the provincial
ICR reports submitted March 2002 and located in the project files.
Indicators                Baseline     Completion  Target
1993          2001
PROJECT OBJECTIVE l.A: SUPPORT
THE ATTAINMENT OF UNIVERSAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND EXPANSION
OF LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION IN
POOR AND MINORITY AREAS.
School       Primary School Indicators
Attendance   Enrollment Rate:
Improved            School Aged Children (%)           94.5         99.5        99.0
School Aged Girls (%)              93.7        99.3        98.4
School Aged Minorities (%)
Dropout rate:
Grade I (%)                        2           0.5         0.7
Girls in Grade I (%)               2.1         0.5         0.7
Repetition rate:
Grade I (%)                        8.4          1.1        1.7
Girls in Grade I (%)               8.3         1.1         1.7
Completion Rate of 15 yr. old population (%)  90.4   99.2        98.6
15 yr. old girls                  90.3         99.2        98.6
Number of Students receiving student assistance  900  1410
Transition Rate
Right Aged Children (%)            76.0         98.5       89.0
Right aged girls (%)               74.5         98.4       89.0
Lower Secondary School Indicators
Dropout Rate (%)                         6.8          1.9        2.4
Girls (%)                          6.9          1.9        2.4
Completion Rate of 17 yr. old population  87.0       98.0        95.0
17 yr. old girls                  86.0         98.0        95.0
Number of students receiving student assistance  300  620
Primary School Indicators
Learning     Chinese Language Pass Rates of Grade 6 (%)  95.4       99.2        98.4
Achievement         Pass Rates for Girls (%)           94.5         99.1        98.1
Increased    Math Pass Rates of Grade 6 (%)            94.6         99.1        98.2
- 15 -



Pass Rates for Girls (%)           94.0         99.0        97.9
PROJECT OBJECTIVE 1.B: BUILD
STRONGER INSTITUTIONS
RESPONSIBLE FOR EDUCATION
DELIVERY
Full-time    Qualification Rate:
Teachers             Primary Schools (%)                82.1         96.0        91.4
Skills               Lower Secondary Schools (%)        43.1         85.0        76.7
Improved     Qualification Rate in Bilingual education:
Primary Schools (%)                0.0          0.0         0.0
Lower Secondary Schools (%)        0.0          0.0         0.0
Facilities   Dilapidated building rate:
Improved            Primary Schools (%)                 32.0         3.0         9.0
Lower secondary Schools (%)        21.0         3.0         8.0
Rate of schools w/standardized sets of
equipment:
Primary Schools (%)                62.8         96.8        96.3
Lower Secondary Schools (%)        47.1         93.0        92.3
Sufficiency rate of school furniture:
Primary Schools (%)                92.1         100.0       100.0
Lower Secondary Schools (%)        93.6         100.0       100.0
Average books per student:
Primary Schools                    4.2          9.2         6.0
Lower Secondary Schools             8.4          15.0        10.3
1/ Hebei has no minority group and therefore no special category for minority enrollments.
2/ Hebei Province has no bilingual education teachers or teacher training programs.
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-      .  .' - . ~,. .... -Appraisal              Actual/Latest  Percentage of
'   -~ --  -::        ~         -     Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component         .   US$ million.  US$ million
INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
a. Facilities Upgrading                            94.90          147.29         155.21
b. Instructional Equipment/Books/Fumiture          36.20          45.96          126.96
c. Staff Development                               11.40           13.74         120.53
MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
a. Management Training                              0.20           0.29            145
b. Expanding Education MIS                          1.00           1.11            111
CENTRAL COMPONENT
a. National Training                                0.30           0.28          93.33
b. Research Dissemination Program                   1.30            1.69           130
c. Stipend Program                                  2.70           2.87           106.3
d. Study Tours                                      0.30           0.30            100
e. Experts Panel                                    0.08           0.08            100
f. Studies                                          0.03           0.02          66.67
Total Baseline Cost                                 148.41        213.63
Physical Contingencies                             14.90           0.00
Price Contingencies                                28.50           0.00
Total Project Costs            191.81         213.63
Total Financing Required            191.81         213.63
Physical contingencies and price contingencies were allocated to the various project components under the
actual estimates column.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'  ' -   ' .  - '  Procurement Method- -
Expenditure Category     .ICB  - - .   NCB   - -.-  Other     . ;  N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                     0.(00         92.7(0)      28.00         0.00        120.70:)
(0.00)       (52.50)      (15.70)       (0.00)       (68.20)
2. Goods                      0.00         43.70         5.70         0.00        49.40
(0.00)       (19.90)       (2.60)       (0.00)       (22.50)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00         5.80          0.00         5.80
Consultant Services          (0.00)       (0.00)        (2.40)       (0.00)       (2.40)
4. Training                   0.00         0.00         15.90         0.00        15.90
(0.00)       (0.00)        (6.90)       (0.00)       (6.90)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00         136.40       55.40         0.00        191.80
(0.00)       (72.40)      (27.60)       (0.00)      (100.00)
- 17 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
;  .       v          .     Procurement Method d...  .
Expenditure-Category       ICB            NCB          O             N.B.F. TotalCost
1. Works                       0.00          103.15        44.14         0.00         147.29
(0.00)        (53.69)       (9.48)        (0.00)       (63.17)
2. Goods                       0.00          38.40          8.67         0.00         47.07
(0.00)        (18.58)       (2.06)        (0.00)       (20.64)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          5.24         0.00          5.24
Consultant Services            (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
4. Training                    0.00           0.00         14.03         0.00         14.03
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.31)        (0.00)       (6.31)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        0.00         141.55        72.08          0.00        213.63
(0.00)        (72.27)      (19.65)        (0.00)       (91.92)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremcntal operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Financer (in US$ million equivalent)
Fjincer              Appraisal Estimate          ActualULatest Estimat   |    .      App?raisal,
__________________  IDA   Gt.... CoF.  IDA  :'GovLt    'CoF.   :IDA   'Govt. . CoF.,..
Chinese Government                91.80                        121.70                   132.6
IDA                     100.00                       91.93                       91 9
The actual IDA disbursement level is less than the original US$100 million due to the SDR/US$ currency
fluctuations. In addition, US$ 289,066.32 were not disbursed from the special account.
- 18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable. This project conducted a Financial Analysis to ensure that the project was feasible during
the project years and that the project effectiveness is sustained after project completion. Three types of
financial analyses were conducted: feasibility analysis, sustainability and assessment of the availability of
counterpart funding.
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/95                         4   2 General Educators, I              S            S
Operations Analyst, I UNICEF
Educator
6/95                         6   2 General Educators, I              S            S
Operations Analyst, I UNICEF
Educator, I Architect, I
Education Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/95                        6   2 General Educators, 2             S             S
Operations Specialist, I
Education Economist, I
Minority Education
Specialist
2/96                         6   2 General Educators, I              S             S
Operations Analyst, I
Disbursement Officer, 2 Lawyers
Supervision
5/96 Project                 5    1 General Educator, I              S             S
Launch                           Operations Analyst, I
Operations Officer, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Disbursement Specialist
1/97                         3   1 General Educator, I Operations    S            S
Analyst, I Procurement
Specialists
3/97                         3    1 General Educator, I Operations   S             S
Officer, I Procurement Specialist
1/98                         2   1 General Educator, 1 Operations    S            S
Analyst
4/98                         3    1 General Educator, I Operations   S             S
Officer, I Procurement
Specialists
9/98 Mid-term                4   2 General Educators, I              S             S
Operations Analyst, I Education
Specialists
5/99                         4    I General Educator, I Education    S             S
Specialist, I Operations Officer,
I Procurement Specialist
10/99                        3   1 General Educator, I Education    S             S
Specialist, I Operations Officer
1/01                         2   1 Lead General Educator, I          S            S
Operations Officer
ICR
3/02                         2    1 General Educator, I              S             S
- 20 -



I                              I               I (Operations Officer
This information is based on project preparation and supervision aide-memoires.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   38                      160,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                        16                       70,000
Supervision                                 107                      362,200
ICR                                           6                       35,000
Total                                       167                      627,200
These figures are based on the project preparation file information, supervision aide-memoires, 590 forms
and staff salary information that is available.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          0 H   O SU * M   0 N   0 NA
FSector Policies                         O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
F Physical                               O H   *SUOM      0 N   O NA
O Financial                              0 H   *SUOM      O N   0 NA
N Institutional Development              0 H   0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
FI Environmental                         0 H   OSUOM      0 N   * NA
Social
 Poverty Reduction               0 H   OSUOM       0 N  O NA
O Gender                           0 H  *SUOM       0 N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)          0 H  O SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
LI Private sector development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
LI Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
rl Other (Please specify)                0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                       O HS * S      OU    OHU
 Overall                                           OHS OS        OU    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
X Preparation                                       O HS * S      O  U  0 HU
F Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * S      0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS        OU    O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Ministry of Education, Implementation Completion Report - May 2002 (including data tables)
Hebei Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
Qinghai Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
Jilin Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
Gansu Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
Anhui Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
Fujian Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
Henan Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2002
- 24 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Contribution
CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2831-CHA)
IMPELMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Project Division, Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO)
Ministry of Education (MOE)
People's Republic of China
May, 2002
- 25 -



CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
1   Project Overview
2.  Project Implementation
2-1 Disbursements/Reimbursements
2-2 Project Efficiency Indicators
2-3 Civil Works
2-4 Goods Procurement
2-5 Management Information System (MIS)
2-6 Provincial Level Staff and Teacher Training
2-7 Student Assistance Program
2-8 Pupil Achievement Study Program
2-9 Dissemination Program
2-10 Centrally-Managed Activities
2-11 Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
3. Main Experience and Recommendations
4. Project Sustainability Plan/ Next Step
5 Data Forms
Annex 1 Counterpart Funds Payment
Annex 2 Credit Funds Payment
Annex 3 Sources of Project Investment
Annex 4 Civil Works Progress
Annex 5 Equipment Procurement
Annex 6 Furniture and Library Books Procurement
Annex 7 Teacher Training
Annex 8 Project/ Education Management Staff Training
Annex 9 MIS Procurement
Annex 10 Dissemination of Research Studies Outputs
Annex 11 Student Assistance in Poverty-stricken Areas
Annex 12 School Building Maintenance
Annex 13 Summary of Project Costs by Category
Annex 14 Summary of Project Cost by Component
Annex 15 Financmg Plan
Annex 16 Summarv of Procurement Arrangement
Annex 17 Project Sustainability for Training
Annex 18 Project Sustainability for Financmg
Annex 19 Selected Efficiency Indicators for Project Counties
- 26 -



CHINA
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2831-CHA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.    PROJECT OVERVIEW
1-1.  The Credit Agreement of the above project, signed by the World Bank and the Chinese Government on
April 17, 1996, became effective onJuly 16, 1996. The project is schedule to be completed byJune 30, 2001,
with a closing date of December 31, 2001. The Bank provides SDR67.3 mlllion (100 million equivalent then) for
this project. The beneficiaries of the project include 124 project counties of seven provinces, which are Anhui,
Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Jilin, Qinghai.
1-2.  The main project objectives are to: (a) support the attainment of universal primary education and the
expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and minority areas; and (b) build stronger
institutions responsible for education delivery.
1-3.  The project will have a direct impact on approximately 46,000 schools and 448,000 teachers and staff,
and will provide varying lengths of training for approximately 138,000 teachers and education managers.
2.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Status
The implantation life of the project was five years, which occurred coincidentally with The Ninth
Five-Year-Plan For Chinese Education Development. The general goals of educational development during the
Ninth Five-Year-Plan were formulated as follows: to conscientiously and fully implement the Guidelines for
Education Reform and Development in China and to give high priority to the universalization of 9-year
compulsory education and the eradication of illiteracy among young and middle-aged adults. In order to
accomplish the goals and to carry on the foreign funds utilization in educational areas, the Chinese Govemment
successfully lunched and implemented the Third Basic Education Project, on the base of the successful
implementation of the first basic education project (EDPP) and the second basic education project (BEII).
Based on the provincial implementation completion reports submitted by project provinces, virtually all
input indicators are running well ahead of project targets and all project goals are fully achieved. Five years into
the project implementation greatly improved the school conditions and accelerated the universalization of
nine-year compulsory education in poor and minority areas. As of December 31, 2001, all project provinces had
exceeded the total planned construction square meters in the planned number of schools and all equipment and
books procured had been delivered to project schools and in use. Provincial management training and teachers
training had surpassed their targets.
According to the reimbursement data provided by the Ministry of Finance, as of the end April 2002, the
disbursed amount by project provinces is SDR67.19 milion, accounting for 99.84 percent of total credit 67.30
million. Counterpart funds accumulation, allocation and utilisation are running at 132.56 percent of total project
target. The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) played an important role in the review of Dissemination Programs, the
advice on rational reorganization of educational resource of the provinces and the education quality aspects of
- 27 -



the project, and they provided guidance for provinces to implement the project. The World Bank's supervision
missions made lots of valuable recommendations and contributed to the success of the project implementation
in the past five years. As the implementation agency, the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of
Ministry of Education (MOE), had fully conducted the central activities (including seminars and study tours in
abroad), co-ordinated and organised relevant agencies from the abroad and the domestic and supervised the
project. On the whole, the Ministry of Education has fulfilled its duties in project unplementation and
management.
As a whole, the progress in the seven project provinces has been substantial The project goals, which are
concerned not only project activities but also with efficiency indicators, were achieved.
2-1       Disbursement and Reimbursement
The provinces reported that by the end of November 2001, RMBY 1.01 billion counterpart funds had
been collected, allocated and utilised, accounting to 132.56%             of the total plan. The collection of individual range
from   99.71%    for Qinghai to 208.97 %       for Henan.
As the reimbursement were partially dependant on the current US dollar exchange rate of the SDR,
currency fluctuation of the SDR reduced the overall level of funding available from the Credit, 67.30 million
SDR was equivalent to US$100 million at project appraisal period, but now                  its equivalence is less than 100
million US dollar. About 99.84 planned SDRs had been reimbursed so far. US$91.93 million had been disbursed
for all provinces by December 31, 2001, making up 91.93%                 of the total planned US dollar. The mdividual level
of credit (SDR) disbursement ranged from            92.97%    for Gansu to 102.87%       for Anhui. In the project
implementation, MOE, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and State Audit Office (SAO) further strengthen the
supervision of project disbursement and solved the problems in time. The following is SDR data on the overall
disbursements by project provinces as of May 2002, which is provided by Ministry of Finance.
Provinces                      Disbursed SDRs                           Percent Disbursed
Henan                            14,970,521.98                                  99.70
Jilin                              3,314,126.78                                  98.49
Gansu                            11,894,222.27                                  97.27
Anhui                            12,821,249.86                                  102.87
Qinghai                           5,389,527.98                                  100.10
Hebei                            13,991,802.18                                  99.00
Fujian                            4,812,202.18                                  102.15
Total                             67,193,653.23                                 99.84
Province  Gansu           Qinghai        Hebei          Anhui           Fujian        Jilin            Henan          Total
Category
1.    OriginaUy         7,849,645       3,100,000       8,872,672      8,048,689       3,163,483     2,223,371        9,472,140      42,730,000
Mud-tern           8,333,737        3,616,694      8,872,670       8,779,999      3,459,773      2,324,921       10,123,831     45,511,623
Disbursed           8,237,974.15   3,664,186.64   9,340,629.05    9,101,085.57   3,590,513.66   2,368,371.12    10,099,993.79  46,402,753.98
2.    Originally        ,527,035         862,683        3,053,183       2,583,124      879,104        690,872         3,513,999      14,110,000
Mid-ten            2,690,625        1,121,029      3,667,945       2,583,081      879,104        771,250         3,563,968       15,277,003
Disbursed           2,740,244.46   1,134,994.47   3,347,549.6     2,752,724.64   947,721.68     759,454.19      3,624,564.01    15,307,253.05
3    Originally         339,450          109,364        380,640         310,357        104,910        75,764          289,515        1,610,000
Mid-term           268,995          109,361        380,645         310,384        104,910        75,779          69,029          1,319,104
Disbursed           262,028.70     103,924.66     181,936.23      182,343.17     36,525.70      14,775.83       58,905.01       840,439.30
4.    Originally        864,440          278,505        969,332         790,350        267,163        192,940         737,270        4,100,000
Mid-term            34,922          536,858        1,211,589       790,363        267,163        193,014         1,258,362       5,192,270
Disbursed           653,974.96     486,422.21     1,121,687.30    785,096.48     237,441.14   1 171,525.64      1,187,059.17   4,643,206.90
5.    Originally        647,709          1,033,390      857,022         731,307        296,290       182,017          1,002,265      4,750,000
Mid-term            .00             0.00           0.00            00 0.00                       0 00            0.00           0.00
Disbursed           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.M             0.00           0.00
- 28 -



6.  Originally    12,228,279   5,383,942  14,132,849  12,463,827  4,710,950  3,364,964  15,015,189  67,300,000
M,d-t nn      12,228,279   5,383,942  14,132,849  12,463,827  4,710,950  3,364,964   15,015,189  67,300,000
Disburmed         11,894,222.27  5,389,527.98  13,991,802.18  12,821,249.86  4,812,202.18  3,314,126.78  14,970,521.98  67,193,653.23
Total
Note:
* Unit: SDRs
Category 1: Civil Works; Category 2: Goods; Category 3: Consultant Service;
Category 4: Training and Study Tour; Category 5: Contingency; Category 6: Total
Generally speaking, the provinces paid attention to accelerating their reimbursement process, and each
annual reimbursement was well ahead of the SAR percentage target for each year. But the provinces had also to
bear the loss caused by exchange rate under the circumstance of strong US dollar, which, to a certain extent,
brought additional pressure for the counterpart funds accumulation.
2-2    Project Efficiency Indicators
According to the data provided by project provinces, virtually all project efficiency indicators targets
have been achieved or exceeded, and the incdcators show substantial progress since 1993. Especially impressive
are the girl's enrolment rates (both in primary and lower secondary schools), transition rate from primary to
lower secondary schools and Completion Rate for Primary School Children, which have imnproved substantially.
Through the procurement for civil works, equipment and books, percentage of dangerous buildings decreased
and equipment percentage achieving MOE standard increased in all projects provinces. Training program
improved the percentage of qualified teachers greatly. See details in Table 19 attached.
2-3    Civil Works
By the end of December 2001, 7542 project school Building was built, accounting for 106.95% of the
total plan. The total areas of all kinds of construction are estimated at 3.00 million square meters or 116.19% of
the planned total areas, with disbursement of US$ 63.17 million credit funds and RMB 700.43 million, which
respectively accounts for 93.42% and 146.81% of the planned.
New Building, Rebuilding, Major Middle and Minor Repairing
No. of Schools                            Areas (Square Meters)
Provinces      Planned        Finished         %           Planned       Finished          %
nhul              2504           2504           100         563372         563372          100
Fujian              189            189           100          171226         196415        114.71
Gansu               1241          1241           100          547940        547913          99.99
Hebei               1698          1704          100.35        505800        521600         103.12
Henan               877           1357          154.73        558300        959783         179.91
Jilin               173            171          98.84          90577         92678         102.32
Qinghai             370            376          101.62        113900         115738        101.62
Total              7151           7542          105.47       2221155        2997499        117.50
Under this project, all project irnplementing agencies at county level procured all the civil works through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and National Shopping (by using force account). The procurement for civil
works had been carried out quickly. All the project provinces had completed about 100% of the planned target
in the first four years. The principle of "Quality First" was strictly followed in all the civil constructions in all
project provinces.
During the supervisions, judged from the contract review, it was considered that the civil works in
- 29 -



general had been progressing smoothly and very efficiently, and the provmces strictly followed the Bank's
procurement guwdelines and procedures. The quality-monitor station at the county level sent special staff to the
field to monitor the quality of construction when the building was being constructed, and the county level
project officers often went to the construction field to ensure the quality of the buildings. The final checking and
acceptance for civil works had been jomtly done by the county construction quality inspection station,
construction commission and education commission. During site visits by FILO/MOE, CEP and Bank
missions, quality of the construction showed good and the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedure were
strictly followed in all provinces. Teachers and student families were satisfied with the school buildings.
It was a hlghlight that the maintenance of the school building was paid more to by each of the provinces.
They all worked out the maintenance plans and carried out accordingly. While in site visit, the supervision
missions were please to learn in some counties the annual budget allocation of RMB 20 yuan per square meter of
school building maintenance. In the sustainability plan for the next five years, each province promised to further
allocate money for civil works maintenance in order that the investment will continue to provide economic and
efficient buildings well mto the next century.
2-4   Goods Procurement
Through NCBs, goods procurement had been fully completed. The procurement of project equipment
and library books was carried out by the provincial FILO through NCB procedures. Project counties conducted
the bidding procurement and the distribution of desks and chairs. The equipment, furniture and books had been
distributed to the project counties and schools.
Up to now, the investment in equipment counts RMB 121.75 million (108.80% of the total, the same
below) for the counterpart funds and US$ 12.34 million (89 89%) for the credit funds. Altogether 15,996 project
schools (102.55%1) had been equipped by 180,300 (100.32%1) pieces/sets of equipment.
RMB 43.27 million (119.03%) for counterpart funds and US$ 3.28 million (83.83%1) for credit funds had
been paid for furniture, with 19,791 schools (101.86%) equipped by 782,300 sets (109.72%).
RMB 45.98 million (107.18%) and US$ 5.03 million (98.89%) had been paid for books, with 18,109
schools (102.36%) equipped by 11,914,700 volumes (105.57%).
Some provinces, such as Hebei, thought that the NCB procurement fully displayed the advantage of
public bidding which has brought remarkable economic return, and they actually saved 18.6 percent of total
estimated funds in their second NCB. During the supervisions, the supervisors found the procurement in the
project provinces has been progressmg smoothly and the provinces had strictly complied with the Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures, which could reflect the whole picture of the project goods procurement.
Under the organization of Qinghai Educational Department, Qinghai had procured 5,200 sets of
distance equipment with total funds of RMB 1.91 million, as a result, 58 ground satellte stations and 160
projection points were set up. Qinghai is one of the western provinces in China and has been benefited by the
Strategy of Western Development of China. In order to carry out this strategy, MOE will take measures to speed
up the reform and development of western education, and one of the important contents is to stress the distance
education system of western areas. So, the project benefits for Qinghai distance education will be longer-lasting
and sustaimng.
- 30 -



2-5    Management Information System (MIS)
The project supports establishing Education Management Information Systems (MIS) for the provinces.
The MIS construction had cost RMB 9.35 million of counterpart funds, which is 101.22% of the planned. All
the 124 project counties as well as 8 non-project counties were equipped with 341 computers (117.59% of the
total plan) of type 586 or higher level, and some of the counties were equipped with printers, duplicating
machines and fax machines. The relevant training had also been improved. For example, Gansu TV University
had carried out the training for operators accordmg to the training guidelines and teaching materials. Anhui MIS
had managed to connect with MOE, Provincial Government and prefectures had realized being on line with
Internet and continuously connected with the project counties, and the MIS on county level had also been set up.
According to the reports presented by the provinces, the MIS system was working properly and playmg an
important role in upgrading the project management. On this basis, the project provinces and counties should
explore and expand the utilization of the system broadly as their next step in the following years of project
sustainability.
2-6    Provincial Level Staff and Teacher Training
Training Expenditure
Project / Magt Training       Teacher / Principal Training
Credit Funds    Counterpart       Credit Funds    Counterpart
USS 259,150(112.54%) RMY 1,259,710(117.22%)  US$ 6,051,430(85.19/.) RMY 64,185,110(108.66'/')
Note: The percentage in the bracket is the completed as percentage of the total planned
So far, there are 130,200 persons time (103.52% of the total plan) that had completed the training
for teachers and principals, and their abilities on Academic qualifications, Certificate qualification, Bilingual
teaching, Multigrade teaching, Laboratory instructions, Librarianship, Teaching materials & methodology had
been upgraded. From the second half of the project life, all the provinces have quickened their pace on the
training process. The result was that all the training tasks had been completed in the provinces in time, and the
provinces had paid more attention to the quality of the training.
As for the process of training, the provinces paid attention to the establishment and utilization of
training network. They used different training network-station to train trainees at different levels, for example,
the county teachers' schools trained the village primary school teachers, the prefecture teachers' schools tramed
the township junior high school teachers, while the prefecture teachers' college trained the school principals, and
the provincial education units were responsible for the training of certificate qualifications, and the training of
principals and directors of county education bureau. As for the training method, the provinces adopted the
combination of full-time training, part-time training and in-service training. As a result of this action, the
provinces not only increased the training number but also saved money.
2-7    Student Assistance Program
The influence of the Student Assistance Program, which is not on the money amount from the interests
of foundation----contrarily the interest rates decreased substantially over the project life, but on formation of
student assistance concept, had exceeded its original goal. So far, the total investment of student assistance is
estimated at 30.35 million and altogether 364,908 students are benefited from the investment. Because of the
interest decreased and the gross interest reduced, the Student Assistance Program had overrun its own outlined
meaning (net interest) during the appraisal period, and all kinds of assistance sources had been covered in the
program. As for the detailed method of the assistance, tuition or miscellaneous fees were reduced / remitted for
the poor students instead of providing them with cash.
- 31 -



2-8    Pupil Achievement Study Program
Hosted by the National Center of Education Development Research (NCEDR) of MOE, Pupil
Achievement Study had been finished. The main task of this program covered two aspects: first, they did a
research on the implementation of Teaching Outlines of Mathematics and Chinese Language in poverty areas.
Second, they conducted testmg of Mathematics, Chinese Language and General Knowledge in Henan, Jilin,
Anhui, Qinghai and Fujian, which involved ten counties, twenty townships, forty vlllage's primary schools and
1,558 students. So, the testing was comparatively representative. NCEDR had reported their research and
findings to project provinces and received good feedback.
2-9    Dissemination Program
There had been US$1.68 million credit funds paid for the Dissemination Program, accounting for
97.93% of the total plan, 77 project counties have been involved in thls program. The program was strictly
followed the implementation guidelnes in SAR. The Bank and MOE were responsible for the supervision of
this activity. The proposed dissemination programs plans prepared by the Provincial Education Department and
sent to the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) for their review and approval. In the first half of 1996, the CEP
approved the programs and sent its recommendations to the World Bank for their review and approval. Soon,
the Bank approved the program. The provinces had held the symposium on initiating dissemination program
within the provinces, the annual work meetings of the dissemnnation, and the expert group meetings of the
project. Meanwhile, they had also held training classes for the project admirmstrative personnel, the leading
teachers of special education as well as the headmasters of the schools concerned, and conducted the
investigations and researches in the project counties. In order to ensure the work to go smoothly, the project
counties and provincial project groups were all equipped with information system including computers and
printers In some provinces, training bases had been set up for the students and teachers. In conclusion, the
Dissemination Program had been developed extensively in each province and gained achievement. For example,
Qinghai's Bilingual Education was innovative from its content to its form, and very helpful for Tibetan children
in learning the basic Chinese Language, and can improve their ablity of listening and reading comprehension in
a short time. Qinghai had disseminated this program with all Tibetan primary schools in the province. In May
2000, FILO of MOE held a seminar on this program to summarize and exchange experiences. The program
topics iS listed below:
Province                       Topic
Anhui            Girls Education
Integrated Education Program for Mentally Handicapped Children.
Fujian           Three Dimensional Cultivation and Breeding
Gansu            Education for Girls and Minorities
Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools
Hebei            Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools
Special Education of Disabled Children
Henan            Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools
Multigrade Teaching
Triple Link Education
Jiln             Division of Lower Secondary Schools
Qinghai          Girls Education
Bilingual Education
Prevocational Education in Lower Secondary Schools
2-10   Centrally-Managed Activities
- 32 -



So far, hosted by FILO of MOE, 24 domestic seminars had been conducted as centrally-managed, with
total number of 1,307 participants from the provinces and counties. Eight overseas training and study tours had
been conducted, with participation of 72 people. In the domestic seminars, the leaders from relevant
departments of MOE and experts from universities and provinces research institutions were invited as trainers,
and each trainee was required to submit a training report by the end of the seminar. As for the overseas tours,
each group was required to work out a study outline, to make a close working schedule and to carry out activities
accordingly, and when they returned from abroad, they must submit a report. According to the feedback from
the provinces, this training method is rewarding and very helpful to the project. The data below summarizes the
details.
2-10-1 Domestic Seminars
Type of Training                                   No. Of Trainees
(1) Civil Works Procurement (I)                         28
(2) Civil Works Quality Supervision (II)                70
(3) Equipment Procurement (I)                           28
(4) Books Procurement Mangers (1)                       28
(5) Provincial / County project Administrator (I)       28
(6) Financial Management and Disbursement (1)           28
(7) Project County Education Bureau Administrator (1)   124
(8) Training Method of Laboratory Staff (II)            127
(9) Training Method of Project School Principals (IH)   248
(10) Educational Supervisor (I1)                        61
(1 1)Resource Allocation and Investment Efficiency of
Nine-Year Compulsory Education(II)                  112
(12)Construction of Campus and School Building          62
(13)Research Dissemination Program                      113
(14)Training Materials and Method of Teachers(V)        250
Total                                                   1307
Note: Figures in the parenthesis refer to seminar numbers.
2-10-2 Study Tours
(1)  Management of Education Financing  United States, February 1997 / UK, November, 1999
(2)  Investment Efficiency of Basic Education  UK and Germany, March. 1998
(3)  School Planning and Management Australia, April 1998
(4)  Teaching Methodology Research  Japan, May 1998 / Canada, September 1999
(5)  World Bank Project Management United States, October 1998, September 2000
2-11   Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
CEP was formed in May 1996 at the project lunch workshop held in Henan Province. Also the first
panel meeting was held during the workshop. The chairman of the panel is Mr. Geng Xuechao, director of
Beijing Municipal Education Commission. The other panel members include: Mr. Wei Xin, Vice-director of
Higher Education Institution of Beijing University; Zhou Yuanwu, Vice-director of Hubei Provincial Education
Department; Zhu Disheng, former principal of the Middle School Affiliated to People's University. The
- 33 -



secretariat of CEP was set up at Enghsh Department of Capital Normal University to deal with daily affairs for
the panel.
Every year, CEP held meetings and made site visits to project provinces to provide consultative services
on the project implementation. CEP members played an important role in project supervision and particularly
provided advice to the quality of the project. CEP's contributions to the project helped the provinces to better
implement their programs and solved the issues existed m the project implementation.
3      MAIN EXPERIENCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3-1    The social development projects, such as education development projects, have no economic return and
financial return, but they also have the risks of exchange rate, interests rate and unexpected events, which could
affect the utilzation of the project funds. BEIII Project is a very good example. So, it is necessary for the project
managers both the domestic and the abroad to pay close attention to the risks all the tme in the project
implementation life and provide constructive suggestions and recommendations. For instance, the influence of
flood and exchange rate risk on BEIII Project should be considered whle doing credct funds reallocation at the
mid-term review.
3-2    As the project implementation and funds disbursement were managed by different departments ----an
implementation model of all basic education projects from EDPP to BEIII, good cooperation, coordmation as
well as communication between the departments at each level is a very important factor to guarantee the smooth
implementation of the project.
3-3 For a long time, it remained a focus how to build an evaluation system to assess the quality of training,
especally the principal training. It is certamly a trustworthy standard to combine the project training with the
national certificate qualifications training, then, to appraise the project training level from teachers' (principals')
schooling records. But in the mountainous areas where most project schools are loaded in poverty counties,
there is a question for discussion of how to set up a system in accordance with the local characterisucs----the
appraisal object includes not only the teachers (principals) but also the students, so as to reflect the real quality of
training.
4.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY PLAN / NEXT STEP
The importance of the post-closure management and sustainable development has been realized by the
administrative authorities at all levels. The MOE requires each local government to make its own project
sustainable development plan based on the summary of the project. The overall sustainable development plan of
the project is drawn up mainly on the basis of plans and policies on education development for the next a few
years, as well as the development plan of the local government. The basic elements of the plan are:
4-1   to urge the government at all levels to maintain steady investment in the project m order to consolidate
and expand the achievement;
4-2   to make full use of the exemplary function of this basic education project, applying its successful
methods in other educational projects;
4-3   to spread the research results of the studies such as Student Assistance Program;
4-4   to implement the funds investment plan at provincial, municipal and county level on civil work
maintenance, teacher traing and other aspects of the project;
4-5   to continuously conduct training for all kinds of staff and teacher;
- 34 -



4-6   to increase investrnent in MIS at county level and gradually build up a multi-level
(state-province-prefecture-county) MIS network;
4-7 to maintain the stability of project management personnel in management institutions of all levels,
making full use of the constant effects of human resource.
5      DATA FORMS
See World Bank Project Files
- 35 -



- 36 -












IMAGING
Report No.:        24247
Type:     ICR



