Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2831 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Basic Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 17, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2831 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17 ,1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
Page  2
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Allocated Amount" means, in respect of each Project Province, an amount 
of the Credit allocated by the Borrower to said Project Province and to be utilized by 
said Project Province for purposes of carrying out its respective Education Program.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c)
"CEP" means the Chinese Experts Panel, established by SEdC under Part 
D(3) of the Project, and to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of Part A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
"Education Program" means, in respect of each Project Province, the 
activities under Parts A, B and C of the Project which are to be carried out by said 
Project Province utilizing the proceeds of its respective Allocated Amount.
(e)
"Education Program Implementation Arrangements" means, in respect of each 
Education Program, the arrangements, referred to in Part D.1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to be made between the Borrower and the Project Province which proposes to 
carry out said Education Program,  as the same may be amended from time to time.
(f)
"Dissemination Program" means, in respect of each Project Province, the 
programs under Part C of the Project, which satisfy the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Part E.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and which are to be carried 
out by said Project Province under its respective Education Program.
(g)
"Non-Project Counties" means the counties in the Borrower's Provinces of 
Hebei, Gansu and Anhui (other than Project Counties) designated under the Borrower's 
National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan.
(h)
"Non-Project Counties Program" means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the program referred to in Part B.10 of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to be carried out by 
such Project Province pursuant to the provisions of said Part.
(i)
"Project Counties" means, in respect of each Project Province, those 
counties in said Project Province in which said Project Province proposes to carry out 
an Education Program; and "Project County" means any of the Project Counties.
(j)
"Project Provinces" means, collectively, the following Provinces of the 
Borrower:  Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Henan, Hebei, Jilin and Qinghai; and "Project 
Province" means any of the Project Provinces.
(k)
"Qinghai" means the Borrower's Province of Qinghai.
 
(l)
"SEdC" means the Borrower's State Education Commission, and any successor 
thereto.
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven million three hundred thousand Special 
Page  3
Drawing Rights (SDR 67,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in dollars in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions, both satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August
15 commencing August 15, 2006 and ending February 15, 2031. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on February 15, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
Page  4
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part D of the Project through SEdC, and cause the Project Provinces to carry out 
Parts A, B and C thereof, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and education practices and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and take 
such further actions as are referred to in said Implementation Program, or cause such 
further actions to be taken, in accordance with the provisions thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  5
not later 
than  eight months after the end of each such year, (A) a 
certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested and (B) consolidated copies of 
the audit reports 
furnished to the Borrower by each Project Province pursuant 
to the 
provisions of Part B.9 of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Education Program Implementation Arrangements to which it is a party.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project Province will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Education Program Implementation Arrangements to which it is a party.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that Education Program Implementation 
Arrangements have been made between the Borrower and each of the Project Provinces.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Education 
Page  6
Program Implementation Arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement have 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Province which is a 
party thereto, and are legally binding upon the  Borrower and said Project Province in 
accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works for:
      (a) Qinghai's             3,100,000       70%
          Education
          Program
      (b) all other            39,630,000       60%
          Education
          Programs
(2)   Goods                    14,110,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Consultants'              1,610,000       100%
      services
(4)   Training  and             4,100,000       100%
      study tours
(5)   Unallocated               4,750,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                    67,300,000
                               ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 6,730,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after: (a) 
December 1, 1995 in respect of Category (4); and (b) February 15, 1996 in respect of 
Category (1).
Page  8
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each, (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $300,000 equivalent each (other than  those referred to in Section I, Part D.2(b) 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), (c) consulting services under contracts awarded to 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each,
(d) consulting services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each and (e) training; all  under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (1) providing 
universal primary education in poor and minority areas, (2) expanding the provision of 
lower secondary education in such areas and (3) strengthening institutional 
capabilities to deliver primary and lower secondary education in such areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Institutional Development
 
Carrying out, in each of the Project Provinces, of programs to improve the 
delivery of education at primary and lower secondary schools, consisting of the:
(1)
upgrading, construction, repair and maintenance of primary and lower secondary 
schools, and provision of tent structures and related facilities for schools for 
nomadic children;
(2)
provision and maintenance of instructional equipment, furniture and library 
books to such schools;
(3)
development and implementation of in-service training programs to upgrade the 
professional skills of school teachers and administrators, as well as the trainers 
thereof, with a particular focus on programs to strengthen the teaching skills of 
bilingual teachers of minority children and the professional skills of principals and 
other administrators of schools serving such children, in management and development 
of culturally appropriate curricular materials;
(4)
undertaking of studies to develop suitable mechanisms for assessment of pupil 
achievement; and
(5)
establishment of a student assistance program to assist poor children in 
defraying schooling related costs, including school fees and textbooks.
Part B:
Management Development
 
(1)
Development and implementation in each of the Project Provinces of management 
training programs for school administrators, with a particular focus on programs for 
administrators of schools serving minority populations, and training programs in 
Project implementation for staff
responsible for Project implementation and supervision.
(2)
Development and introduction in each of the Project Provinces of an education 
management information system, including the provision of equipment and training 
required therefor.
Part C:
Dissemination Program
 
Development and carrying out in each of the Project Provinces of pilot programs 
designed to introduce innovative teaching programs, with a particular focus on 
instruction in the language of minority populations and curricula relevant to such 
populations, and of policy-oriented research programs designed to develop and test 
ways to improve the efficient delivery of quality education to poor and minority 
Page  9
communities and to reduce the number of school dropouts among girls and
children from minority populations resulting from culturally inappropriate curricular 
material and teaching methods.
Part D:
National Program
 
Strengthening by the Borrower of institutional capabilities in respect of the 
delivery of education, through the:
(1)
development and implementation of education management training programs for 
education administrators and of training programs in management of the Project for 
staff responsible for Project implementation and supervision;
(2)
development and implementation of programs to train teacher trainers for teacher 
training programs to be carried out under Part A of the Project;
(3)
establishment, staffing and operation of a panel of experts to assist in 
overseeing the Project, in developing and assessing programs proposed for inclusion 
under Part C of the Project, in supervising the implementation of Dissemination 
Programs, and in developing economically optimal and efficient student assistance 
programs; and
(4)
development and implementation of programs to evaluate and disseminate the 
experience gained from Dissemination Programs carried out under Part C of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Goods (other than books) estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent, and 
Page  10
books, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods (other than books) estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,700,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Force Account
 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and cost 
less than $40,000 equivalent per assignment, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$28,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to the following contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply:
(a)
the first two contracts for goods procured by each Project Province in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of the Project and thereafter each contract 
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more;
(b)
in each fiscal year, the first two contracts for works procured by each 
Project Province in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I for 
which invitations
to bid are issued in that fiscal year; and
(c)
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
Page  11
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, with terms of reference, 
membership and other resources acceptable to the Association:
1.
a Project unit within SEdC, which shall report to a Vice Chairman of SEdC, and 
shall supervise the implementation of Part D of the Project, and prepare the reports 
referred to in Part B of this Schedule; and
2.
CEP with responsibility for (a) providing technical advice to Project Provinces 
on the implementation of their Education Programs, and to SEdC on the development and 
implementation of training programs under Part D of the Project, (b) assisting in 
carrying out the monitoring activities referred to in Part B of this Schedule, (c) 
reviewing programs proposed for inclusion under Part C of the Project, (d) supervising 
the carrying out of Dissemination Programs, in accordance with the provisions of Part 
E of this Schedule, (e) assisting in the development of economically optimal and 
efficient student assistance programs and (f) providing advice to the Project 
Provinces on ways to ensure parental participation in the implementation of the 
Project and reporting on the progress of such participation.
B.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, through SEdC:
1.
maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, 
in accordance with indicators (including literacy and numeracy indicators) acceptable 
to the Association,  (a) progress in the carrying out of the Project, (b) progress in 
the carrying out by each Project Province of its respective Non-Project Counties 
Program and (c) the impact of the Project on the educational achievement of primary 
and lower secondary school students in the Project Provinces;
2.
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association:
(a)
an annual report, not later than April 1 in each fiscal year (commencing 
in fiscal year 1997), summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out 
by it pursuant to Part B.1 above in respect of the preceding fiscal year, 
consolidating the reports furnished to it by each Project Province pursuant to Part 
B.7(a) of the Annex to this Schedule, and setting forth any proposed measures, 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the  objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than October 31, 1998, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Part B.1 above from 
the inception of the Project, consolidating the reports furnished to it by each 
Page  12
Project Province pursuant to Part B.7(b) of the Annex to this Schedule, and setting 
forth any proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, 
to further the objectives of the Project and of each Project Province's respective 
Non-Project Counties Program; and
3.
exchange views with the Association on each report furnished by the Borrower 
pursuant to Part B.2 above, and thereafter, take all such measures in relation 
thereto, as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
C.
National Management and Teacher Training Programs 
 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than October 15 in each fiscal year for 
review and approval, a proposed action plan for the carrying out of Parts D(1) and 
D(2) of the Project during the following fiscal year; and
(b)
thereafter carry out such action plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association.
D.
Education Program Implementation Arrangements
 
1.
For the purposes of the carrying out by each Project Province of its respective 
Education Program, the Borrower shall allocate to said Project Province an amount of 
the Credit, under arrangements to be made between the Borrower and said Project 
Province, in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
(i) cause each Project Province to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Education Program Implementation Arrangements to which said Project 
Province is a party, all of the obligations of said Project Province therein set 
forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Project Province to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under each of the Education Program Implementation 
Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive any of the 
Education Program Implementation Arrangements or any provision thereof.
E.
Dissemination Programs
 
1.
A program referred to in Part C of the Project to be carried out by a Project 
Province shall qualify as a Dissemination Program eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit only  if:
(a)
said Project Province shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, through CEP, on the basis of an appraisal, carried out in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Association, that:
(i)
said program (A) is economically and financially viable, 
technically feasible 
and replicable in other poor and minority 
areas, (B) has the potential to add 
to existing knowledge in the 
field of education and (C) has been designed in 
accordance with 
appropriate educational standards and practices;
(ii)
the total estimated cost of the equipment to be procured under 
said program 
shall not exceed 40% of the total estimated cost of said 
program;
(iii)
the implementing agency has the organization, management and 
resources 
required for the proper carrying out of said program; 
and
Page  13
(iv)
said Project Province has prepared a suitable time-bound action 
plan for the 
implementation of said program; and
 
(b)
the Association has notified the Borrower and said Project Province of 
the Association's approval of said program and action plan.
2.
The Borrower shall, through the CEP, supervise the carrying out of each 
Dissemination Program in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 4
For the purposes of Part D.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Education 
Program Implementation Arrangements shall include the following provisions.
A.
Terms
 
1.
The principal amount of the Allocated Amount which shall be recovered by the 
Borrower from each Project Province:
(a)
shall be the equivalent in SDR (determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid
out, on account of the cost of goods and services for said Project Province's 
respective Education Program to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)
shall be recovered by the Borrower in dollars in an amount equal to the 
equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the amount 
referred to in Part A.1(a) of this Annex.
2.
The amount referred to in Part A.1(b) of this Annex shall be recovered by the 
Borrower over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) 
years.
3.
Interest shall be charged on the amount referred to in Part A.1(b) of this Annex 
and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time, at a rate equal to one and 
two-tenths of a percent (1.2%) per annum.
4.
Each Project Province shall undertake to make available to each of its Project 
Counties part of the proceeds of its Allocated Amount either on a grant basis or on 
other terms whereby:
(a)
the amount so made available which shall be recovered by said Project 
Province from said Project County shall be the equivalent in Yuan (determined on the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and 
services for the part of said Education Program to be carried out in said Project 
County and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)
the principal amount so made available shall be recovered by said Project 
Province over a period of not less than the number of years which said Project 
Province shall have in which to repay its Allocated Amount to the Borrower under Part 
A.2 of this Annex, inclusive of a grace period of not less than the number of years of 
grace granted to said Project Province pursuant to said Part A.2; and
(c)
interest, if any, shall be charged on the principal amount so made 
available and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time, at a rate which 
shall not exceed the rate of interest payable by said Project Province pursuant to 
Part A.3 of this Annex.
B.
Conditions 
Implementation
Page  14
1.
Each Project Province shall undertake to carry out its respective Education 
Program with due  diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial, administrative, technical and education practices, and provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor.
2.
Each Project Province shall undertake to carry out its respective Dissemination 
Program in accordance with such action plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association pursuant to Part E.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
 
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactoryto the Association, 
and furnish to  the Borrower and the Association not later than October 15 in each 
fiscal year for review and approval, a proposed action plan for the carrying out of 
its Education Program during the following fiscal year; and
(b)
thereafter carry out such Education Program in accordance with such 
action plan as shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Association.
4.
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
 
(a)
procure the goods, works and services required for its Education Program 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;
(b)
insure said goods against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by said Project Province to 
replace or repair such goods;
(c)
utilize such goods, works and services exclusively for the purposes of 
carrying out its Education Program;
(d)
enable the Association and the Borrower to examine such goods and all 
facilities, sites and works included in its Education Program, the operation thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
at all times operate and maintain any facilities, equipment and other 
property relevant to its Education Program, and promptly, as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, administrative and education practices.
Management
5.
In order to facilitate the implementation of its Education Program, each Project 
Province shall undertake to maintain the following offices throughout the period of 
implementation thereof, with terms of reference, membership, staffing and other 
resources satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a provincial project office, headed by a director, which shall report to 
a Vice Governor of said Project Province and to the SEdC, to be responsible for 
planning and carrying out its Education Program; and
(b)
within each of its Project Counties, a project office, headed by a 
project management officer, which shall report to the County Magistrate of said 
county, to be responsible for supervising the carrying out of those activities under 
its Education Program which are to be carried out in said Project County.
Monitoring
6.
Each Project Province shall undertake to maintain operational procedures 
adequate to enable said Project Province to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with 
indicators (including specific numeracy and literacy performance indicators) 
acceptable to the Association, (a) progress in the
carrying out of its Education Program, (b) the impact of said Education Program on the 
Page  15
educational achievement of its primary and lower secondary school students; and (c) 
progress in the carrying out of its Non-Project Counties Program.
Reporting
7.
Each Project Province shall undertake to prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to Borrower:
(a)
an annual report, not later than March 1 of each fiscal year, for 
consolidation in each report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, summarizing 
the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Part B.6 of 
this Annex in respect of the preceding fiscal year, and setting forth any proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of its Education Program; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than October 1, 1998, for consolidation in 
the report to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.2(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried out by it pursuant to Part B.6 of this Annex from the inception of 
the Project, and setting forth any proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the objectives of its Education Program and its 
Non-Project Counties Program.
Consultation
8.
Each Project Province shall undertake to exchange views with the Borrower and 
the Association on each report furnished by it pursuant to Part B.7 of this Annex, and 
thereafter, take
all such measures in relation thereto, as shall have been agreed among the Borrower, 
the Association and said Project Province.
Financial Reporting
9.
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
 
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of its Education Program of its departments or agencies 
responsible for carrying out said Education Program or any part thereof;
(b)
have said records and accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(c)
furnish to the Borrower, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, for consolidation and forwarding 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Borrower and/or the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Borrower (or the 
Association, as the case may be) shall from time to time reasonably request.
Non-Project Counties Program
10.
Hebei, Gansu and Anhui Provinces shall each undertake to carry out a program, 
acceptable to the Association, designed to ensure the continued achievement, in its 
Non-Project Counties of educational targets acceptable to the Association, throughout 
the period of Project implementation, together with a financing plan for such program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  16
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) , (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $4,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be  required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
Page  17
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
