Document of              IOM                       D1
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2481-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
March 6, 1979
This document has a restricted diiution ad may be med by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei  4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = us$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 = us$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert
the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI   -   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP    -   Agricultural Production Cooperatives
IAS    -   State Agricultural Enterprise
NWC    -   National Water Council
SMA    -   Station for Agricultural Machinery.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:         State enterprises and cooperative complexes
Loan Amount:         $70.0 million
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 7 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:    The loans from BAFI to Agricultural Production Coopera-
tives (CAP) for buried pipelines would be for 25 years
including 5 years' grace and for on-farm sprinkler equip-
ment, 8 years including 3 years' grace. The interest rate
would be 3 percent with penalty rates of up to 5 percent.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Description
of the Project:      The project consists of two separate and distinct
components:
Mostistea: Irrigation and drainage of 158,540 ha gross
(155,871 ha net) would be achieved through completion
of following works: widening of existing supply canal
from the Danube including extension of an existing
floating pumping station, construction of four low pumped
storage dams on Mostistea River; installation of eight
fixed pumping stations and six repumping stations for
feeding the new irrigation systems; surface drainage for
82,683 ha; tile drainage for 4,238 ha; soil erosion con-
trol works to protect an area of 13,344 ha; and equipment
for maintenance and operation and for farming operations.
Calmatui: Drainage of 66,930 ha gross (64,527 ha net)
and irrigation of about one-third of this area would
be accomplished through following works: Extension of
existing floating pumping station; irrigation works to
serve 23,980 ha gross (23,000 ha net); surface drainage
works to serve 66,930 ha; subsurface drainage works for
14,455 ha; reclamation of saline soils covering 9,200
ha; and equipment for operation and maintenance of irri-
gation and drainage works and for farming operations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks: The project would contribute to Romania's overall effort
to increase and stabilize agricultural production
through investment and related farm development. The
project faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost:                                Estimated Cost         Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange
Item                                -------US$ Million------        %
Pumps Reservoirs and
Irrigation Works                   136.9     61.8      198.7       31
Drainage                             33.4       8.2      41.6       20
Miscellaneous Works                  16.8       3.0       19.8      15
Land Compensation                    35.6        -       35.6        -
Equipment                            23.0      13.6      36.6       37
Engineering and
Administration                      19.8       2.2      22.0       10
Physical Contingencies               17.7       6.3      24.0       26
Price Contingencies                   8.9      22.0      30.9       72
Total Cost                          292.1    117.1      409.2 /1   29
Financing Plan:                          Local   Foreign    Total
-----…UTTS$ Million------
State Budget and Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry    262.1        47.1     309.2
State Agricultural Enterprises        8.0        -        8.0
Agricultural Machinery Stations       3.9        -        3.9
Agricultural Production
Cooperatives                        18.1        -       18.1
IBRD                                   -       70.0      70.0
Total                               292.1    117.1      409.2
Estimated
Disbursements:         Bank FY           1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
-----------US$ Million----------
Annual                              17.9   29.4   13.7    7.0    2.0
Cumulative                          17.9   47.3   61.0   68.0   70.0
Rate of Return:      About 15 percent
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2278-RO; March 5, 1979
EMENA Projects Department
/L   Total cost includes $3.7 million as taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA FOR A MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania (BAFI) with
the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of
$70 million to help finance a Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage
Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report no. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An economic mission visited
Romania in mid-May to collect information on economic performance in 1977 and
to discuss the 1978 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates its findings. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The average growth rate of national income during the period has been 9.7
percent per annum. The level and diversification of industrial production
has increased rapidly, providing the basis for the modernization and expansion
of other economic sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and
national income. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry,
the population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes
but also because of the provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other
kinds. Furthermore, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed
significantly as the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        The changes in the level and structure of economic activities be-
tween 1950 and 1975 represent the outcome of a development strategy designed
to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as possible,
with the level and structure of development in the developed countries. The
main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and increasing rates
of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial base; the devel-
opment of local natural resources; the reorganization and modernization of
agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production and income; the
expansion of foreign trade and international economic relations; and the
development of human resources.
1/   This Part I is identical to that contained in the President's Report for
a Second Livestock Project to be considered by the Executive Directors
on the same date as the proposed project, and it is also identical to
that contained in the President's Reports for the Roman Seamless Pipe
and the Second Turceni Thermal Power Projects, approved by the Executive
Directors on January 11, 1979.



- 2 -
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources. Economic activity is directed
by means of obligatory development planning coordinated by the central party
and government authorities. The national plan, drawn up on a five-year time
frame and elaborated each year in an Annual Plan, sets out for the economy as
a whole, by sector and branch and on a regional basis, specific tasks for
economic and social units. The plan is drawn up through a combination of
central directives and aggregation of individual enterprise plans, any dif-
ferences being reconciled through discussions between the entities involved.
During the late 1960s and throughout the present decade, Romania has under-
taken measures to improve the planning and management system, to increase the
responsibility of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to
orient the economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the
latest changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumulation
had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The sectoral
allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority of
industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented towards
self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been allocated to
industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed to the
producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the industrial
sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the producer
goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1976 industry was
the leading sector of the economy, accounting for almost 60 percent of national
income, and employing approximately 32 percent of the labor force (and almost
33 percent in 1977) compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by
chemicals, ferrous metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 62
percent of gross industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand for
raw materials and energy. Romania has concentrated on exploiting local
resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However, in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize in the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net



importer of many important items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has
outpaced the growth of domestic production. Romania started to import oil
in 1968 and became a net importer of energy in 1972.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 34 percent of the labor
force in 1977 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in national income to about 18 percent by 1976. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The
rapid growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The average GNP growth of 9 percent per annum implies a percentage
growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum, up to an estimated GNP
per capita of US$1,580 in 1977, based upon official national income information
using the World Bank Atlas methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 8.3 percent in 1976 to an average of 1,964
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an increase
in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the economy.
The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods and raw
materials, reaching US$7.02 billion in 1977. Exports also grew rapidly,
reaching a level of US$6.88 billion in 1977, and the share of manufactured



-4-
goods increased to 50 percent, reflecting the progress of Romania's indus-
trialization. Trade with LDCs and developed market economies has also been
increasing rapidly in response to policies of diversifying sources of raw
material supply and as a consequence of exports of more manufactured goods.
In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move away from trade on
a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments, within the
framework of the general trade cooperation agreements signed with almost all
of the country's trading partners. These agreements also covered cooperation
in production, technical assistance and economic relations. In 1977, the
convertible balance of payments deteriorated, reversing the trend of the
previous three years. After a surplus of US$76 million in 1976, the trade
balance had a deficit of US$81 million in 1977, as a result of additional
imports made necessary by the earthquake, the diversion of export goods
to the domestic economy for reconstruction and continued weak demand in the
developed countries for some Romanian exports. With an increased deficit on
the invisibles account (US$192 million compared with US$137 million in 1976),
there was a current account deficit in 1977 of US$273 million compared with
the 1976 deficit of US$61 million.
14.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies is still characterized by exports of
natural resources and imports of capital goods. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agricultural output or softening in prices, tends to place
the import program, largely sophisticated machinery and components, in imme-
diate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The Five-Year Plan under implementation covers the period 1976-80.
The high growth rates experienced during 1971-75 are planned to continue. The
pattern of growth planned for this period suggests that the present decade has
been viewed as a decisive period in the achievement of long-term objectives,
during which Romania will overcome the major constraints on its transformation
from a developing country into a developed and technologically advanced coun-
try. There have been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year
Plan targets during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets
for standards of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh
Conference of the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other
areas of the Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions
were taken to increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to
participate in sharing the profits of enterprises (see para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. However,



-5-
the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added following a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves.  While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will nevertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for socialist retail
trade and services for the population have been increased.
17.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country, causing severe damage in the
vicinity of Bucharest. The Government estimated that 1,570 people were killed,
11,300 injured and that it caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion
of the total damage was to buildings and associated utilities, of which US$1
billion was in housing. Of the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was
in inventories and production. The earthquake also had a substantial detri-
mental effect on the country's balance of payments' prospects; the net balance
of payments cost is estimated to be approximately US$630 million during 1977
and 1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets. This required additional efforts from the population
in the form of labor, e.g. work on one Sunday per month, and money. While
these efforts enabled the economy to continue its growth, 1977 plan targets
were only partially fulfilled. National income increased by 8.6 percent com-
pared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an increase in the previous year
of 10.5 percent. Industrial production increased substantially more than the
plan target (12.5 versus 10.5 percent). In net production or value added
terms, however, growth was significantly lower, since reductions in production
costs were less than planned and because of the need to make repairs after
the earthquake. For reasons other than the earthquake, chiefly climatic and
management problems, gross agricultural production fell 1.3 percent short
of the 1976 level, and was far below the plan target of 2-4 percent growth.
The gross output of the construction sector rose rapidly; much of the addi-
tional output constituted repairs and the sector provided a relatively large
share of growth in national income. The impact of the earthquake showed up
clearly in the growth rates of investment and trade. The volume of investment
increased by 11.5 percent rather than the 16.7 percent planned, reflecting the
diversion of construction resources and manpower to repair work. The volume
of trade increased in current prices close to that planned (14.8 versus 15.5
percent) but with imports increasing more rapidly and exports less rapidly
than planned.



- 6 -
19.       The 1978 Annual Plan indicated growth rates similar to those planned
in 1978. National income was planned to increase by 11-11.5 percent, gross
industrial production by 10.6 percent and gross agricultural production by
between 6.9 and 16.1 percent, with the respective net production growth
rates being somewhat higher as a result of planned decreases in material
expenditures per unit of final product. Investment was planned to increase
by 16.8 percent and foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes of the
population were projected to increase by 7.9 percent. Mid-year reports
suggested that the growth of production during 1978 was likely to approxi-
mate targets, although there have been indications of delays in carrying
out investments. The recently published Annual Plan for 1979 signals no
significant deviation from the previous path, although the target for national
income (8.8 percent) does suggest a slight deceleration in growth. Net indus-
trial production is planned to grow at 11.5 percent (in keeping with the new
economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net rather than
gross terms), with particularly high rates of growth planned for such indus-
trial branches as machine tools, engineering and electrical goods. Gross
agricultural production is planned to increase at 5.1-5.6 percent, foreign
trade at 16.6 percent and investment at 9.1 percent, substantially below the
1978 target. Real incomes of the population are expected to increase by
7.5 percent.
20.       In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future enterprises are also to retain a higher pro-
portion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural expendi-
tures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan preparation,
be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer correla-
tion between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more direct
responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. These measures
are now under detailed discussion within Romania and are expected to become
law in 1979. It is too early to make a definite judgment, but it does appear
that they are designed to make the existing management and planning system
operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. However, they
are a step in the direction that the basic economic report suggested was
desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore, they will
set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which may lead
to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by



- 7-
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings. In 1977, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term
loans totalled US$843 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial
credits with relatively short repayment periods. The gross inflow of conver-
tible medium and long-term loans during the year was US$890 million (not
counting US$38 million from the IMF). This represented a net inflow of US$329
million after accounting for the country's repayment obligations. There was
also a net inflow of US$156 million on short-term during 1977; this was the
result of the Government's temporary reversal, because of additional financing
needs generated by the earthquake, of its policy to reduce reliance on short-
term credits.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, eight joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only US$10-15 million, the seventh and eighth involve
far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977 with Citroen,
involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and will lead to
a total capital inflow of aproximately US$250 million. Even larger inflows,
appproximately $500 million, are expected as a result of the eighth agreement,
with Kuwait, for the construction of a petrochemical complex costing US$1.25
billion. In the past twelve months, several more ventures have been announced;
a joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya, a joint production company
with British Aircraft, a joint production enterprise with Data Products Cor-
poration of USA and a joint venture for passenger aircraft with VFW-Fokker.
Many other joint venture proposals are at various stages of negotiations.
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East European
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for the expan-
sion of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a US$100
million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agree-
ment and also a US$420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms. How-
ever, it is in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most
progress in improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial
sums at good and improving terms. During 1977, it negotiated two Euro-
dollar loans totalling US$125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated
a further US$100 million on the Eurocurrency market, and it was recently
announced that the Government has negotiated a new Eurocurrency borrowing of
US$200-300 million. The terms for this eight-year loan, with four years grace
are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and 0.750 percent for
the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure long-term energy
supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with Occidental Petroleum
for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking consortium raised a US$53
million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participation in the Island



- 8 -
Creek Coal Mine in West Virginia. In addition, Romania has access to non-
convertible currency investment credits from the International Investment
Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of long-
term development finance, though, as shown above, Romania is making efforts
to improve its access to financial markets. The Bank's presence on a signi-
ficant scale, and its effort to associate Bank financed projects with co-
financing through supplier or financial credits, has a positive influence
in this regard and serves to build outside confidence in the country,
thereby enhancing in the long-term Romania's independent access to the
world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of- manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards and if its present momentum is maintained, Romania will be among
the more developed of the high-income, developing countries in the 1980s.
The Government plans to achieve this high growth rate by emphasizing, first,
the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local investment
effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural resources.
However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its long term



- 9 -
plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will have to attract
foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support its development
efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of December 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,491 million. Most of these debts (US$3,402 million)
were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy.
While the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and
growth of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and con-
vertible debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of US$900
million a year in 1978 and 1979. The convertible debt service ratio was 19
percent in 1977 and is expected to be 18 percent in 1978.
29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million (not counting US$580 million in non-factor services) in 1977. The
preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the European Community in
June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such exports as is the granting of
most favored nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government
has restricted the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an
effort to improve the structure of the country's external debt. In view of
the earthquake's impact upon the balance of payments, the Government indicated
that there would be a temporary reversal of this trend and short-term debt
increased again in 1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt
management policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio will be about 20
percent at the end of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will remain
fairly stable. The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of
both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for
continued development, all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy
for substantial Bank lending.
30.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the U.K. and in the U.S. With regard to
the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S. claims began in
September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon agreements
reached in May 1975. Settlement of the U.K. claims proved more difficult, but
a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank was also informed in
late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans from the pre-war
period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests, such as concessions
granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War. The eleventh
meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was held in Bucharest in October
1976 and further discussions were planned at a date to be established through



- 10 -
diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable to obtain a consistent picture
from the two Governments of the present status of this matter and has, there-
fore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities to clarify their respective
positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan and the proposed loan for a Second Livestock
Project ($75 million) would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
US$1,177.8 million for twenty-two loans in agriculture, industry and power.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
on-going projects as of January 31, 1979.
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange
by providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which
will expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank is assisting the
Government by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. Bank
lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new
industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and production
efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary electric
power development. Market aspects and marketing, especially for export goods,
are also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture which is
heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where productivity levels are
still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration.  Projects for
poultry production, horticulture, power, and a number of further irrigation
and industrial projects, have been proposed. The Government has also requested
that the Bank consider lending for a major navigation canal linking the Danube
and Black Sea.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for 163 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest in 1975, 1976
and 1977.  Additional courses, including one in agricultural project appraisal,
are planned. The methodology taught in these courses is becoming more widely
known in Romania and is expected to begin to supplement the methodology
normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for external
financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they will pro-
vide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency finance,
and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other
sources.   The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute
about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible currency debt in



- 11 -
1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments in 1980 would be
about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Agriculture
36.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing both convertible foreign exchange earnings and industrial raw
materials which contribute to progress in other sectors, especially in indus-
try. In 1977, agriculture accounted for 16 percent of national income and 34
percent of the labor force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). About 14.9
million hectares, or almost two-thirds of the land area, are used for agricul-
ture. Of this area, 65 percent is arable, 30 percent is under pasture and the
remaining 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. About 8.5 million
hectares of all agricultural land is in Wallachia, the region composed of the
southern plains in the Danube valley. Approximately 64 percent of all arable
land is used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat), while industrial
crops (mainly sunflower and sugar beet) are the next most important. Vege-
tables are also produced for domestic consumption and export, predominantly
by private farmers and individual members of cooperatives, but also often in
large-scale commercial greenhouses operated by State farms and cooperatives.
In 1976, livestock accounts for a relatively high 41 percent of agricultural
production.
37.       The major problems of Romanian agriculture are the instability of
its output and low productivity. Growth achieved in agricultural production
has been slower than in other sectors and has been characterized by year-to-
year variations. The Government has taken account of these problems in its
five year plans. Investment in agriculture accounted for 12.7 percent of
actual total investment in the 1966-70 plan period and 14.1 percent in the
1971-75 plan period. Investment in agriculture in the 1976-80 plan period is
expected to be US$7 billion, about 50 percent more than during the 1971-75
plan period. Included in these plans are major programs of irrigation
investment to address the sector's problems, in particular the problem of the
instability of production. In addition to investment, the Government has
introduced institutional reforms, price incentives, and production targets
and delivery schedules geared to stimulate agricultural production. It has
also taken a number of other specific measures to increase agricultural pro-
ductivity including increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers,
investments in livestock production and the promotion of agro-industrial
enterprises to provide processing and marketing facilities. The Bank has
also identified the production instability and the low productivity as the
two major problems in the Romanian agricultural sector as stated in the
Agricultural Sector Survey (953a-RO) and the recent basic economic report
(1601-RO). Through the process of preparing these documents and the Bank
financed projects, the Bank has maintained a close dialogue with the Govern-
ment and contributed to improving the design of agricultural development
projects. The Bank has assisted the Government efforts by providing so far



- 12 -
seven loans totalling $371.5 million since 1975 when the first Bank loan for
agriculture was made to Romania.
The Need for Irrigation Infrastructure
38.       Instability in agricultural production results from vulnerability
to erratic weather conditions and the lack of infrastructure to mitigate their
impact. Excessive precipitation and flooding during planting and harvest
seasons, and inadequate rainfall during summer growing seasons, have resulted
in year to year fluctuations in national output of the order of 10 to 20 per-
cent. Fluctuations of production in particular regions can be even greater.
Only production of vegetables has increased steadily, reflecting the rela-
tively more controlled conditions under which they are produced. The Govern-
ment is well aware of this problem and has placed high priority within the
agricultural sector on solving it. Forty percent of agricultural investment
in the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan was for land reclamation, irrigation and drain-
age; the comparable figure for the 1976-80 Five Year Plan is about 20 percent,
reflecting a relative decline in infrastructure investment and increasing
emphasis on investments to make productive use of irrigation facilities
already established. Since 1965, total irrigated land has been increased
from about 0.2 million hectares to 1.9 million hectares in 1977, and, the
relative reduction in the share of the agricultural budget allocated for
irrigation notwithstanding, another 700,000 hectares are expected to be
brought under irrigation during the last three years of the 1976-80 plan
period. Irrigation works to date have concentrated on large schemes using
waters pumped from the Danube. Four such projects have already been financed
by the Bank since 1975 including one in the Calmatui district; execution of
these projects, which also include drainage and farm mechanization components,
is proceeding satisfactorily (see Annex II), and the proposed project would
continue Bank support in this subsector.
Agricultural Productivity
39.       In addition to improving its irrigation infrastructure, Romania is
also taking measures to improve productivity through upgrading the quality of
farm mechanization, increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers,
the establishment of large-scale livestock complexes, and the promotion of
agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and marketing outlets for
increased farm production. A long-term goal in development strategy is to
free labor from the agricultural sector for industry. Steps are also being
taken to reduce inequality between State farms and cooperatives in access to
farm inputs. State farms, which own 30 percent and cultivate 14 percent of
agricultural land, received about 42 percent of on-farm investment in the
1971-75 Plan period. Productivity on State farms is correspondingly higher
than that on cooperatives, but the Government is now moving toward elimination
of the disparities between the two types of farm organization in order to
stimulate general improvement in agricultural productivity. About eighty
percent of the land to be irrigated under the project is owned by cooperatives.



- 13 -
Sector Organization
40.       State agricultural units and cooperatives account for the major
portion of agricultural production; individual farmers play a much less
significant role, except in the production of a few selected commodities.
The current sector organization is primarily a result of collectivization
and increased government participation from 1949 to 1962, when small-scale,
peasant-oriented agriculture was replaced by large, state-owned or state-
controlled production units. The dominant form of state-owned agricultural
unit is the state enterprise (IAS). There are 392 such state enterprises
averaging about 5,300 hectares and about 650 workers each. These large scale,
capital intensive farms have been considered a pilot sector in Romania and, as
such have been favored in terms of land allocation, fertilizer distribution
and investments in irrigation and mechanization. About 2.1 million hectares
of agricultural land, of which 1.7 million are arable, are owned by these
farms. Workers on the farms are employed on salaries which are fixed by law
and vary according to skill levels. The state farms are generally well
managed by directors (usually agricultural engineers) who are appointed by
the Director General for State Farms of the Ministry of Agriculture and are
responsible to workers' councils. The Ministry of Agriculture determines the
production plans for individual State farms; it also has a role in determin-
ing the use of their net income, a portion of which is remitted to the State
treasury.
41.       There are about 4,400 agricultural production cooperatives (CAP)
with about 3.4 million member families and owning about 9.0 million hectares,
of which 7.2 million are arable. Workers in cooperatives are entitled to a
minimum salary, which is lower than the salaries of their counterparts on
state farms by about 20 percent. Salaries of cooperators may be supplemented
with the cooperator's shares of profits in excess of plan targets, as bonus
programmed to be about two percent of the planned benefits. Frequently more
than one member of a family works (on a full- or part-time basis) in the
cooperative, and some family members are employed outside of the cooperatives.
Cooperators are also allowed to farm about 0.15 hectares each in and around
their villages for their personal use, and they are allowed to own livestock.
Production on personal plots is always intensive, and produce is either self-
consumed or sold to consumption cooperatives to supplement other income of the
cooperators. About 11,800 hectares of such plots farmed by about 56,000 co-
operative members would be irrigated under the project. A cooperative is
managed by a General Assembly of cooperators and its elected President; it
reports to the District Director General for Agriculture, the local repre-
sentative of the Ministry of Agriculture. Some cooperatives have begun
to pool their resources for large-scale investments in agroindustries and
livestock production. These intercooperative associations are operated by
state employees paid from intercooperative revenues. Part of the net income
from intercooperative sales is retained for further inter-cooperative develop-
ment; the balance is divided among member cooperatives in proportion to their
contribution to shares in the inter-cooperative association.
42.       Individual farmers number only about 150,000 families and own about
10 percent of total agricultural land. Their lands are often located in



- 14 -
mountainous regions, and include 19 percent of pasture lands and 21 percent
of orchards. Individual producers own 16 percent of all cattle, 14 percent
of sheep, and 6 percent of pigs. The individual farming subsector has not
received strong government support but is significant in production of
potatoes (16 percent of production), meat (13 percent), milk (20 percent),
eggs (14 percent) and wool (12 percent).
43.       At the national level, the State institution in the agricultural sec-
tor is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. It plays a major role
in preparing the Five-Year Plan for the sector and is the supervisory institu-
tion for plan implementation. In each district, the Ministry is represented
by a general directorate, which is responsible for all agricultural activity
in the district including both cooperatives and State farms. Marketing is
organized nationally under 13 centrals accountable to the Ministry and respon-
sible for processing and marketing specified commodities. Each central
obtains produce at the district level and allocates it among domestic retail,
processing, storage and export channels. A foreign trade company is respon-
sible for the exports of each central.
Agricultural Investment Financing
44.       The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Govern-
ment's specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation
and food processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans
in support of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan.
BAFI was established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all
investment funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector.
Financing in agriculture had previously been done by a department of the
National Bank of Romania. BAFI is involved in all phases of project
appraisal, execution and supervision, and it has a large technical and
economic staff located in Bucharest, in 39 country (judet) branch offices
and in 92 sub-branches throughout the country. One of BAFI's more impor-
tant functions is that of fiscal agent administering for the account of the
national budget, all government investment in State farms and enterprises.
BAFI also receives interest-free funds from the State budget for investment
lending to cooperatives (and in some cases State farms) and repays the Govern-
ment as it receives repayments of the sub-loans. BAFI has thorough review
and approval procedures for all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's
review, all agricultural investments for more than lei 10,000,000 (US$500,000)
are reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and those greater
than lei 70,000,000 (US$3.5 million) must be approved by the Council of
Ministers. BAFI also provides short-term credit to, and maintains settlement
accounts for all cooperative and state agricultural enterprises; it also acts
as fiscal agent for the Government for collection of state revenues from these
enterprises. As the Government's channel for investment financing in agricul-
ture, BAFI's primary source of funds is the State budget; the Guarantee
Agreement therefore includes a provision that the Guarantor shall provide all
necessary funds for the implementation and operation of the project (Section
2.02, Guarantee Agreement). The Guarantor will ensure that BAFI can meet the
debt service on the Bank loan (Section 2.01, Guarantee Agreement).



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project is a part of Romania's Plan for bringing 4.0 million ha
under irrigation by 1985 and was proposed for Bank financing in April 1977.
Feasibility studies for the Mostistea and Calmatui components were submitted
to the Bank in May 1977 and September 1977, respectively, and further data
was provided during February 1978. Additional feasibility reports on floating
pumping stations and pumped reservoirs on the Mostistea component were made
available during April-May 1978. The project was appraised in April-May 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1979. The Romanian delegation
was headed by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI, and included representa-
tives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry and BAFI. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report" Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drain-
age Project (No. 2278-RO) dated March 5, 1979, is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are mentioned
in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize
crop production in a gross area of 225,470 ha (220,398 ha net) located pri-
marily in the Ilfov, Buzau and Braila judets (districts) (see maps); and to
raise labor productivity. This would be accomplished through construction
of irrigation and drainage systems and related facilities. The projected
cropping patterns for the project areas have also been related to domestic
needs and foreign markets. These cropping patterns comprise a range of crops
with varying growing seasons which together cover the entire summer period
ensuring an almost continuous use of labor and farm implements. The area
under major crops would be maize (43%), wheat (18%), alfalfa (11%), sugar
beet (7%), and sunflower (7%) with the remaining area devoted to barley, soy-
bean, vegetables, orchards and vineyards, and natural pastures. Thus, the
proposed project would be in line with the Bank's strategy for stabilizing
production and increasing productivity in the agricultural sector in Romania.
Project Description
47.       The project consists of two separate components - Mostistea (155,871
ha net) and Calmatui (64,527 ha net). The former is an irrigation project
with necessary drainage works, while the emphasis in the latter is on drainage
and soil reclamation with only 23,000 ha being provided with irrigation facil-
ities.
Mostistea
48.       The works for the Mostistea component would consist of widening the
existing supply canal from the Danube, and extension of an existing floating
pumping station to lift water into the existing lake upstream of the Iezer
Dam. Four pumped storages would be constructed upstream of the Iezer Dam,
each equipped at its base with a floating pumping station to lift water



- 16 -
successively into these storages. Eight fixed pumping stations would lift
the water from these storages into the main irrigation canals, while six
repumping stations would ensure flow in these canals. Water would be distri-
buted to the entire area through this system of concrete-lined canals to
pressure pumping stations, which would supply water to distribution networks
consisting of buried pipes for sprinkler and furrow irrigation. Also included
would be portable on-farm sprinkler and furrow irrigation equipment, surface
drainage works to serve 82,683 ha, tile drainage works for an area of 4,238
ha, soil erosion control works for an area of 13,344 ha, equipment for opera-
tion and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works, and farm machinery to
intensify agriculture on the area to be irrigated by the project.
Calmatui
49.       For the Calmatui component, the works would include extension of the
existing floating pumping station on the River Danube, constructed for the
Viziru Terrace irrigation sytem and the Bank financed Ialomita-Calmatui
irrigation system. In addition seven fixed pumping stations would lift the
water from the main canals to the terrace and enable the concrete-lined
delivery canals to convey the irrigation water to the Calmatui area along the
natural slope of the ground. The area would be divided into eleven blocks of
rectangular shape for optimum mechanization and each block would be served
by one pumping station. The underground pipe network would be similar to
Mostistea except that the entire area of 23,000 ha would be under sprinklers.
Within the irrigated area the works would also include surface drainage of
23,000 ha, tile drainage for 14,455 ha and reclamation of saline soils cover-
ing 9,200 ha. The component also includes 41,527 ha of non-irrigated area for
which only surface drainage would be provided. As in Mostistea, equipment for
operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and farm machinery
to permit intensive agriculture would also be provided under the project.
50.       The Calmatui river traverses the entire length of the project area
and is its main drainage channel. Its present capacity is badly curtailed
by meanders and siltation. Widening and deepening of the river channel is
already under implementation by the Government of Romania through its own
resources. The Government has agreed that the work will be completed in a
timely manner to meet the needs of this component (Section 4.01(a), Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation and Operation
51.       Before undertaking detailed project implementation, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) and the National Water Council (NWC)
will obtain the approval of the Council of Ministers of the technical and
economic indicators 1/ of the project. Such an approval will be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01, Loan Agreement). MAFI,
1/   The technical and economic indicators document is the final approval
required by law for each major investment project in Romania. It estab-
lishes the physical, financial and economic indicators for the project.



- 17 -
through its various departments and trusts, and NWC would be responsible
for planning, construction and supervision of the project. Design and con-
struction of floating pumps and storages in Mostistea and widening and deepen-
ing of the Calmatui River would be carried out by NWC. Planning and design
of all other project works would be carried out by the Institute for Land
Reclamation Studies and Design, and construction by the Construction Trust
for Land Reclamation Works. Both organizations are part of the Ministry's
Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction. The irrigation
and drainage works would be operated and maintained by the Ministry's Central
for operation of land reclamation works. BAFI would serve as financing agency
for all project works under the arrangements noted in paragraph 44 above.
All agencies are competent to carry out the proposed works and have undertaken
previous Bank financed works satisfactorily.
Cost Estimates
52.       The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at lei 7,364.5 mil-
lion ($409.2 million). The foreign exchange component which includes both
direct and indirect foreign costs, is estimated at $117.1 million or 29 per-
cent of total cost. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that
are prevailing in Romania under the system of regulated prices of materials
and wages. Cost of equipment and spare parts expected to be procured from
foreign suppliers, has been calculated at the international prices likely
to prevail at the end of 1978 and is estimated at $37.6 million. Taxes
and duties on imported equipment which now average about 10.percent amount
to lei 67.7 million ($3.7 million) and are included in the cost estimate.
Because detailed engineering has already been carried out, physical contingen-
cies have been provided at 7.5 percent of irrigation, drainage and reclamation
works and at 5 percent of other minor items. Price contingencies on foreign
costs are compounded annually at 6 percent for equipment and at 7 percent for
civil and other miscellaneous works. Due to near zero inflation in Romania,
price contingencies on local costs are compounded at 1 percent per annum.
Financing
53.       The proposed Bank Loan of $70.0 million, representing about 17
percent of total project cost ($409.2 million) and almost 60 percent of
foreign exchange costs ($117.1 million) would be made to BAFI for fifteen
years including three years grace. The Government of Romania would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The State budget would contribute about lei
4,800 million ($266.7 million) or 65 percent of total project costs through
budgetary allocations to the National Water Council, the construction enter-
prises, State agricultural enterprises (IAS) and stations for agricultural
machinery (SMA), for which funds would be channelled through BAFI. BAFI
credits of lei 764 million ($42.5 million) to CAPs would contribute about
10 percent of total costs, with the remaining nearly 8 percent or lei 540
million ($30.0 million) contributed from subborrowers' (CAP, IAS, SMA) own
resources.
54.       Of the costs for buried pipeline and on-farm sprinkler and furrow
equipment to be transferred to CAPs, about 30 percent would come from their



- 18 -
own funds with the remaining 70 percent financed through BAFI loans. These
loans would be recovered in accordance with standard on-lending terms. For
on-farm buried pipelines, the loans would be for 25 years including 5 years
grace, and for on-farm irrigation equipment, 8 years including 3 years grace.
The interest rate would be 3 percent with penalty rates going up to 5 percent.
As in earlier projects, these rates result in a positive spread over BAFI's
financial and administrative costs in providing the loans. As a result of
Government controls on domestic prices, Romania maintains a domestic inflation
rate of around 1 percent per annum, and no significant further increase is
expected in the future. Thus BAFI loans under the project would be made at
positive real interest rates, on the same terms and conditions as are extended
to other borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Audit
55.       BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors
appointed by the Ministry of Finance and to an annual audit by inspectors
from the Court of Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of
Ministers and the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its
transactions are satisfactory and BAFI's audited operating and financing
results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of BAFI's fiscal year (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
Recovery of Costs
56.       The cost of farm machinery would be recovered by the State through
unit rates paid by CAPs to SMAs for mechanization services and through IAS
contributions to the Depreciation Fund.  Project investment and annual O&M
costs would be recovered through both direct and indirect mechanisms. The
direct mechanism consists of water charges of three types levied on all CAPs
and lASs using the irrigation water. For drainage works, there is also a pro-
vision for cost recovery. The resulting cost recovery from direct mechanisms
would amount to about 8 percent of investment and O&M costs or a recovery of
about 25 percent of the O&M costs alone. This direct cost recovery is supple-
mented by various indirect cost recovery mechanisms. The State recovers
project costs from IASs and CAPs through compulsory portions of income paid
into various funds to ensure future investments. In addition, any profits
made by the State from the purchase of tradeable commodities at administered
low farmgate prices and subsequent export at higher world prices are also
indirect cost recovery mechanisms. Since the State is the main beneficiary,
the revenues accruing to the State from these various cost recovery mechanisms
plus the direct water and drainage charges are very high and could result in a
combined direct and indirect Cost Recovery Index of 100 percent or more, thus
enabling the State to undertake similar investments in the future.
Markets
57.       Market prospects for internal consumption and export of project out-
put are assured. It is expected that Romania will remain a net exporter of



- 19 -
grains (wheat, barley, maize) and sunflower oil, and a net importer of soy-
bean, feed concentrates, and sugar. The incremental production from the
implementation of the project for major crops would be: maize 464.0 thousand
tons, wheat 33.1 thousand tons, alfalfa 149.7 thousand tons, and sugar beet
547.5 thousand tons. An estimated 70 percent of maize, the major commodity
under the project, would be used as animal feed, with the remainder used for
human consumption, industrial purposes, and export. Maize by-products would
be purchased by paper and housing material factories, used as combustibles, or
turned back into the soil as fertilizer. Annual exports of maize averaged
over 350,000 tons during the 1970's through 1976. Despite increases in incre-
mental domestic feedgrain requirements, the grain balance is expected to
remain positive, and prospects for continued exports are favorable. Barley
would be procured under the project for both the livestock and agro-industrial
sectors and areas under alfalfa, natural pastures, and double crops (maize
silage, sorghum green mass) would also serve the growing feed demand. Most of
sunflower production would be processed into oil, for which demand is increas-
ing, with cake used for feed. Imports of soybean have averaged 100,000 tons
per year, and project output would contribute to the goal of self-sufficiency
in this product. The incremental output of sugar and vegetables under the
project are intended to contribute to planned increases in domestic per capita
consumption, and a portion of vegetable production could also be exported.
Incremental project output would be handled by the appropriate marketing
Centrals and their enterprises and collection centers in the project areas.
Storage and processing capacities are planned in accordance with Government
policy on promoting integrated agricultural development and are adequate to
accommodate incremental production from the project. World market prices,
derived from Bank projections and adjusted for transport, handling, and other
costs as appropriate, have been used to price tradeable commodities for the
economic analysis of the project. The average official domestic farmgate
prices applicable to all producers throughout Romania have been used to price
non-tradeable goods.
Procurement Arrangements
58.       In Romania, all irrigation works are constructed by Romanian Con-
struction Trusts, which are experienced and familiar with local conditions,
methods and regulations. This practice is acceptable to the Bank since the
Trusts' construction costs are likely to be less than those which might be
bid by international contractors. Equipment and materials equivalent in cost
to the proposed Bank Loan ($70.0 million) would be procured according to ICB
under the proposed loan and it was agreed during negotiations that items
costing $70.0 million including contingencies would be procured following
international advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March
1977". Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent
or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. The application of the
preference has not affected so far the outcome of bidding on previous irriga-
tion projects, and is not expected to significantly affect the result of bid-
ding on the proposed project. It is expected that foreign suppliers would win
contracts estimated to cost about $25 million for most of the construction
equipment (excavators, dozers, motor scrapers, concrete pumps, and cranes and



- 20 -
their spare parts). Other items to be procured through international compet-
itive bidding (about $45 million) are available domestically and, based on
experience with previous Bank-financed irrigation projects, it is expected
that the Romanian manufacturers would be successful in bidding for most of
these items. Cost estimates are based on the conversion rate of US$=llei 18.
The remaining equipment and materials, all domestically produced, would be
procured under Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for disbursement
under the proposed Bank loan.
Disbursements
59.       The proposed Bank loan of $70.0 million would be disbursed for (i)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, spare parts and
materials procured through international competitive bidding, and (ii) 100
percent of the ex-factory price of equipment, spare parts and materials manu-
factured locally and procured through international competitive bidding.
International Water Rights
60.       There is no international agreement among the Danube River riparian
states for the use of its water for irrigation but a convention exists for
development of the River for mutual benefits, and for protection of navigation
and water quality. The maximum diversion for the project, in July, would
amount to about 2.9 percent of the minimum river flow in that month. Diver-
sions for the present and future projects in Romania dependent on the Danube
River would not adversely affect the Danube supplies for international naviga-
tion. There is no reason to expect, therefore, that the project would raise
issues on the use of Danube waters, and no agreement of other riparians would
be required. However, as for the previous Bank financed irrigation projects
in Romania, Government has furnished a letter of representation to the Bank
setting forth Romania's treaty obligations on the use of Danube waters and
confirming that the project would present no problem on the use of inter-
national waters.
Environment and Health
61.       The project area is free of endemic diseases such as malaria and
bilharzia. The project would not adversely affect the environment or public
health. Construction of irrigation works, with variable water flows in the
canals, and a piped distribution network would not promote mosquito breeding
and spread of malaria. Fertilizer and salt draining from the project area are
not expected to damage the quality of the Danube's waters.
The Role of Women
62.       Women constitute the majority of the agricultural labor force and
thus play a crucial role in agricultural production in Romania. The percentage
of women actively engaged in agriculture may range as high as 80-85 percent
in certain areas, particularly in the CAPs. Of the 4,400 CAPs in Romania,
350 have women presidents, and women hold approximately 4,700 posts as chief
engineer or agronomist, and 26,000 positions as team heads in the CAPs. The



- 21 -
legal basis for equal opportunities exist, and there is an awareness of the
role of women in agriculture, their need for training and so forth. In the
project area, where CAPs predominate, women already do and will continue to
play a major role in agricultural production.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The proposed project would contribute to Romania's overall effort to
increase and stabilize agricultural production through investment and related
farm development. The quantifiable benefits from the proposed project derive
mainly from the increase in the value of production and also from the preven-
tion of flood damages. The project is expected to increase the gross value of
production in the project areas at domestic farmgate prices from a fluctuating
annual average of about $43.5 million to a relatively stable annual average of
$112.5 million. This would be achieved through increases in the yields of
various crops ranging from 33 percent to over 400 percent and through an
increase in cropping intensity of about 20 percent made possible by irrigation.
The project would also more than double labor productivity. About 56,000
cooperative workers and about 10,000 state farm employees would participate in
the project. Benefits to these participants would be mainly indirect through
increases in real wages throughout the economy over time, and an improved
standard of living and better public services, and some direct benefits
through an increase in the likelihood of exceeding production targets and
making bonus funds available for distribution among participants. In addi-
tion about 2,000 inhabitants would benefit directly by the prevention of flood
damages. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to accrue to the economy
mainly from grain exports, while increased self-sufficiency in crops like
soybean will help to save foreign exchange. The project would also result in
general linkage benefits to the economy by ensuring increased and stable raw
material supplies to processing and marketing channels. The overall economic
rate of return for the whole project is estimated to be 15 percent. The
economic rates of return for the Mostistea component, the cost of which is
US$332.3 million, and for the Calmatui component, whose cost is $76.9 million,
are also 15 percent.
64.       The risk of not attaining project objectives due to construction
delays, cost overruns, or inadequate supply of inputs or services is consid-
ered low. Bank experience with other Romanian irrigation projects to date
confirms this assumption. The design institutes and construction trusts have
experience with similar successful schemes. Project costs are based on offi-
cially regulated prices which are not expected to change significantly during
the period of project implementation. The supply of adequate agricultural
inputs and services is assured. Farm workers are receptive to new technology
and would have adequate incentives to participate in the project. Projected
yields and their development are based on applied research and experience in
comparable areas and are considered reasonable. Sensitivity analyses based on
lower yields and a longer period of development, as well as on reduced prices,
have, furthermore, shown that even under pessimistic assumptions about pro-
jected benefits, the economic rate of return would remain in a satisfactory
range of 10-13 percent.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agricul-
ture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
67.       The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry and the National Water Council
will obtain the approval of the Council of Ministers of the technical and
economic indicators of the project (Section 7.01, Loan Agreement).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ECIWIIA                                                   /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             237.5                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      149.0                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOMNI        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   190.0        530.0    1580.0            1898.8      1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF ODAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0        3013.0    3803.0            1869.3      1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                          18.4        20.3       21.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 32.0           40.8      43.0             43.0        52.2.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         77.0         85.0      91.0             81.4        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0          136.0     146.0            135.2       116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           27.9 /f     25.9       25.4             26.2        34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                          64.9 /f      65.5       64.8             63.4        56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     7.2 IL       8.6       9.8              9.9         5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.2          1.0       1.0              0.8         1.6          2.9
URBAN                                3.8          3.4       2.1              2.2         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.9         19.0      19.7              19.2       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       10.9          8.9       9.3               9.0        9.9           7.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.2          1.3        1.3              1.3         1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        ..             38.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               96.2        100.0     146.1            113.7       103..        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    105.0        118.0     118.0 /R         127.4       110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            81.0        92.0       90.0 /R          92.8        77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         24.0         28.0        ..             39.3        22.2         48.0
CHILI) (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.9 /f       2.4        2.1              1.6         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.9           67.7      69.1              68.9       63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             75.7         49.4       34.7             34.5        38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
MOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..              68.3       67.7         83.0
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            74.3        83.5        100.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..             64.4        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                                       94.0        70.3         57.8
RURAL                                                                        94.0       90.7         99.3
RURAl              ..          ..         ..             ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~93.0  38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             740.0        680.0     620.0             686.5     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        300.0        200.0      180.0            339.0      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              130.0 IL    120.0      108.0             178.0      275.4        325.8
URBAN                               50.0 if      50.0      60.0              70.0       129.9       250.0
RURAL                              620.0 TL    770.0      730.0            1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             .-         23.0         ..             15.3        18.9         18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                             3.2 /h      .3 9
URBAN                                 ..          2.8 /h      .
RURAL                                 ''          3.4 /h      ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOtl
TOTAL                                             1.4 /h      ..              0.9         0.9
URBAN                                             1.3/ ./     .               0.8         0.8
RURAL                                 ..          1.4 /h      ..              1.0         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         49.0  h      ..             57.5        59.2
URBAN                                            86.0  h      .              99.0        78.0
RURAL                                            27.0         ..                         12.5



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 1A                                      Page  2  of  5 pages
ROKANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKE1T
IlEnIENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVSRAC1
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATt)
SAME        SANE     NEXT DICIER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOIE
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTINATE /b      RECGIOI L    GROUP /d   GCOUP LI
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        113.0     109.0           106.0       97.6        104.1
P34*1.3              95.0       114.0    109.0              99.5       47.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 24.0        45.0       62.0            62.8       47.8         44.7
P3KAL               22.0        38.0      59.0             63.4       42.4        4.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 54.0         58.0      70.0            21.2       22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACER RATIO
PRIDMAY                           25.0         21.0      21.0            24.9       25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                         16.0        1U.0       19.0            17.3       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCEiT)          ..          ..      98.0            S.3        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TOUSARD
POPULATION                           ..          ..        *.            90.4       32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TEDUSANgD
P(PULATION                       109.0        152.0     146.0           199.0      201.9        195.5
TV *ECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         73.0     127.0           132.5       97.7       108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIOII Pr
THOUSAND POPUIATISIU               147.0        169.0     129.0            97.1       70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE fIR CAPITA  9.0.         9.-       8.9             6.6        4.4
ENPLOTYENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     9600.0       9900.0   10600.0
FUIALE (PERCENT)                  44.9         44.5     "4.              32.4       17.4        26.9
ADRICULTURE (PERCET)              65.4         49.0      34.4            32.8       38-4     25.7
IUMUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.1         23.0      32.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                                57.1        56.0      55.9            39.1       33.7        40.1
MALE                                 64.5        63.3      62.8            56.7       50.8         55.8
FEMALE                              50.1         49.0      49.1            29.7       12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.7          0.7       0.7             0.9        1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..            31.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..         ..            59.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSENOLDS      ..         ..         ..             4.0        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS      ..          ..        ..            12.9       13.7
POVER-Y TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY ISC-
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           194.9      157.9
ESTIUATED RELATIVE pOVERTY INCOS
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           295.1      44B.6
RURAL                               ..          ..      325.0           309.2      313.1
ESTUIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..            18.2       23.2
RURAL                                           ..    10-20              24.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/  l  adJustcd ir-up av-r-g-. fur .a.n Indlctor are population-welghtetd geotric   arb     excludIrg the extreme
val.e" of the indicator and the mawt populated country ln each group. Coverage of countries among the
indlcator. depend. -o availability of daLa and is not uniform.
/b    Unle..  ther-l-e nted, data fo,r 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. betveen 1969
:md 1971; and fI>r Mot PeR -t Estiwte, between 1973 and 1977.
E- Eorope;  /d   Upp-r Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita. 1976); Le  High Income  (over $2500 per capite,
1976);  /f  1962; La  Av  1969-71;   /h  1966.
September, 1978



- 25 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 ANOE  
Page 3 of 5 page-r
lIi'The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric neans, excluding the extreme vaue   f the indicator and the rot
populated coun tr y Sn serh group. Coverege of coustriea among the indicators depend. on availability of dateancd is not uniforn. Due to lack of data,
gr oup aver. ags for Capital Surplus Oil Exportere and indicators of access to weter and excrete disposal, hous.ing, income distribution and povrty arc
aieple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme valusa.
LANDf AREKA (thousand sq. he)                                                             Popolation per hosoital bed - total. urban, and rural - Population  (total,
ToteS - Total surface -ar  comprising lend area and Inland wtatrs.                         urhan, end rural) divided by their respective numbe*r of hospital beds
Agricultural - Hoot recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in publir and private general and sperialined hospital and re-
or Permanently for crops, pastures, market end kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitsls ste establishments permanently stuited by
lie~ fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
tareCare not included. Rural hospitals, however, include t,aaltb and mcdi-
iNP PER CAPITA (US$) - 1GfP per rapita estieates at current market pricos,                   ca  ctetr. not Permanently staffed by a physician (hut by a medical u-
calculatsd by same conversion method as World Sank Atlan (1975-77 hasis);                siotent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-petient accormodatioo and
1960, 1970, and 1977 dots,                                                               Provide a limited range of medical facilities.
AdmIsinsper hosp'ital bed - Total number of adniosio.s to or diecbh-gsa
ENERGY CONSUMPTIO:.PRCIT- Annual consumption of commercial energy                            iron hosptal  divided by the nunber of beds.
fooll end lignite, petrIoleu,naturalcgas edihydro-, nulear an:d geo-
thermual electricity) In kilograms ofcaleqivalnt per capita.                        IISING
Average sixe of hou...hold (persons Per household) - total, urban, and rrl
POPULIATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A house hold consists of a group of indivduals who share living quate-s
T.tel poplatio..  mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if ext available,                    end their nain neals.  A boerder or lodgec may or nay not he included in
uveeg  of two  endyea  estimae    1960, 1970  and 1977 data,o                            the household for statistfcal purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (pe,rcent o :8total) - Rtatio of ur&ban to total populs-                  hol'd va .ry.     pr.n    a  
tion; different de finitions of urban areas may affect romparability                   Avecage numbro.       esn e  room-total u.rban, and rur..l - Average nun-
of deta amng rountrise.                                                                  her of persons per room in e ll,urban, and ru ral occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings:, respectively.  Dwellings eoclude non-permanent utructurns sod
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupie  parts.
of total area.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access to electricity (percent o;fcdwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per soLbe. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings withelc1tricity in I ving quarters as percentuge
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectivel.y.
Population age structur   sre    Cidren (0-li years)  woking-age
(15-4yers).andretre  (hO yer  an1d over) as percentage  of mid-                EDUCATION
year       yar) population.(6Adjusted enro1lment ratios
Population growth rat   prcent) -totl. and urban -Compsund annual                        Primary Ishol-tovtal, an.d fesae - Total and female enro1lent of ull agn
growth rates of  toa  aend ura ti'd-year populations for 1950-60,                        attepiaylvla   ecentages of respectively Primary school-age
1960-70.ad97-5                                                                           populatioms; normally inClUdes children aged h-il yesr" hut adjuoted for
Crud   ;h`rt  rte (pertosn)-Anullv   its prtosnofdifferent lengths of primary education; for  -vntries with universal edo-
mid-year populationt ten-year arithmet ic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since none pupils are below or
1970 ad five-year average ending in 1975 for mos t recent estimate,                      shoe the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand)t- Annualvdeaths pethouado i-iSecondary school - total, and female - Conputed as above; secondary educa-
yerpplto;tny             eraihtIavrae  endin  isnd 196  and 190tion requires at least four years of approved primaryI intrution; pro-
ad five-yea  ave-rage ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                          vidis general voc-tional, or teacher training instructIons  o uils
Gross reproduction care - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of i2 tc 17 yearn of age; correponidenc  courses. aro genera.lly
in.he ri nrmalireprodu ctive Period if she experiences present age-                      xocluded.
specific fert IIty rates; usually five-year averages ending Ix1960,                   Vocational enrolleent  oer-at af necondury) - Vcc-cicna1 institutiocu Sc-
1970, and 19751.                                                                         dlude tehnical, industrial, or vther Prograns which operste independently
Family Planning - acceptors, annua  ithb.u..nds) - Annual number of                        or  s cdpartmnsoocndr   i,totitutions.
acceptors of birth-oto   evcsudr  upcsofntoa  fml                                      uil-teac.he  rtIo - primary, an. eccndary - Total stud-ent  onrollod in
planningProgren.                                                                         Primary and secondary levels div  'id by nmbero of teachoro cv. rho corro-
Family Planning   uses(e       Ieto   arried women) - Percentage of                        aponding levels.
married women of child-bearingae (5-44 years) who use birth-control                   AdlPieac   ae(ercent) - Literato adults (ablo to rea d and vol-o
devices to all married women in same age group,                                          a; prcentage of total adult population aged 15 ye.sr  and over
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUN4PTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index numher of per                    Passenge  cas(s   huadpplation) - Passe.nger care c-prine neter  ar
.capita anua  Production ofal  fond comdities,                                           etn  len  t hen eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and nilitany
Percapta  uply  f corss(percent of resuiramants) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent ofn ntfoo  suppliesavailable in country per capita                  Radio receiversI (per.thouand pouolatinol - All types of recouivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprie  omestIo production. imports less                 broadcests TSo gnral public per thousand of Population; exc ludes uc1ice...nd
exports, and changes in stock.  Net aupplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in cou ntries and in years when registration of radio sets .ca.l
quantities used in fond process.Ing, and losse  in distribution.  Re-                  effect; date for recent years may net be comparable since nest ceuntrien
quirmemntswr   siae   by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                     abolished licensing.
mal ac tivt  ad health vnederi   enovironmental temperature, body                     TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for brodcas  tc genard.
weights, age an  sex distributions of Population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thusnd population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in c-uc
cent for waste at hous.ehold level,                                                      tries and in years when registresien of TVl sets w.as in effect.
Per capita supny of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Niewpape  circulation foer thousand population) - Shows the averge ci-cu1-
capita net supply of food par day.  fHat supply of fond is defined as                    tioo   diygeneral interest o-s-sPaper", defined as a yvrio,dici,  publi-
shove    Raquirament  for all coutries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted Pr imariy to reco.rding general news.  It icosdere.d to
a minimum  allowance of h0 grams of total protein per day end 20 grama                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of  nialad pulse: protein, of which. 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinem  aennual attandance sac ca"pigto nec year - Based en the neeber vi tickets
Th.es standrds  r   oe   hntoeo  75 grams of totsl protein and                           sold during the yerinldgamission  to driv--in cineona  and v-hilo
23 grams of anisalI protein as an -avrage for the world, Proposed by                     units
FAS in the Third World Food Survey. 
Per  soita oro nl suply fomanma  and Pulse - Protein supply of food                    EMPLOYMENT
derivsd from  nimals an.dfpulsesinl gramxer day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Econosically active person.s, ie-luding ...ned
Chil1d   asoIimrtality rate (per thousan) - Annual deaths par thous-                       forces and  nansployed hut exclu.ding  hoswvs    tudents, c-c.  lefivi-
sdIn age grup,-  yssrs.  to children In this age group.                               tions  in variou  coun...tries are not ..onporeble.
Fema,,le (percent) - Faemle labor force as percentage cf teta1 labor fooro
HiEALTH                                                                                  Agiclur!percent  -Lborf frce in farming, forestry, hanro-g and f:shlvg
Lif   oectca.co at birth (years) -Averge number of years of life                           as percentage o  total labor force
Iremining at birth; usua lly five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970,                 Indoetry (pervan.t) - Labor force in lioing,..neotructien, vuuutcv   nd
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, watrnd gas sopecetage of  totl lao  Serve.
Infantmortality rats (Per thousa.nd) - Annual deatha of-infants under                  Participation rar:e (percet) -'.tocl. mle,. andt female - Tota,  sale.I, uvd
one year.of.,agetper( thousad live birhts.)                                               eole laborf .e.ce on perceragen of their reP-Ecive y--tl-tc
Accessto saf  water(parcetofpopulation  - total, urhan. and rural -hese are ILO's adjustedipa,rrfcipatior r.ten ref1-ti-u
Number of psope (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access. to.                     tr-c...v ~f rho poPuaIe. ed lov  tine trvyd.
asaf  watersupply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Econonic dependeny ratie - Satne of populartor  dro   )on 1ad  vrb
uscontaminated water such as that from protected bor-holes, apring.,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary walls) as percetages of their respective populations.
In an urbantar   a Puhlico fountain or siandpos  located sot more                   INlCOME DSITRIBUTIONI
than 200 astes from a house nay.be considered es being within r.a-                   Percetg   fiprivatet income (both In cash and kind) received by richeuc 5
soal  acesofta   oue    x  ua   resrasnbeaceswol                                      ecent,r rihes 0percent, pooret 20 percent, and poorest 40 percont
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      ofhushlds
spend a disproportionate Part of the day So fetching the family's
watertneeds.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROPIF
Acces  t  e arta disposal foret  fx             aio   total, urban, and                 Estioated absolute pvertyI inom  leelCN pe aita)    obun and  -ral
rural - Number of psople (tucal, urban, and -rurl)  -svd by scaaAbsolute pvsrt  Incm  le.v Ncel is that inom Flevel bolw which aocv
disposl as  ercenages  f theirirnespectiv :po'pulations.   fceanutritionally adequate diet pius as..entia1 non-food r                                   ivovuis nut
disycoa  may Include the  olcinaddsoa,wt  orwithout                                      aff ordablet....     i_ lel
treato ent,of huxa   coreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated reltvenvet  inoelv l,Wi$ ost capita) - urbac and  -rurl-
tr ho use  f pit Privies  sod siia   ntlain,Relative povrty income love) is that Income leve  less than on-third
Peoulatlon Par phyalian.  - Ppltion divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal inc-n  of the coun.try.
physlicine quslifled from a medical school at usiv-rsiry level.                      Estimated Population bs1os poverty incomlel(prnt  - -rban a-  -ui1
Popuscia  pernarina peron   Population divided by numhsb       f                      Percent of popolution (urban and rua) whor  either `absolute yp-r    r
practicing male sod female graduate oursosvpractIcal nurses  sod                         "relotive poor' ahibhver is greater.
assistant sma
E-oneic and Sociu1 luta Divici-c
Eic....ic Analysis and Pro2nvLi..s Dnyarceo-t



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 26 -
ECORMKC IWDIR.A-!j
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 19n                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GPOWTH (7e constant prices)
USS Min.     S          1961-65        1966-70        1971-75        1975-77
GNP at Market Prices                        30,300        100.0         9.0            7.71/         11.31/        9.6
Gross Fixed Domestic Investmenb              8,463         27.9        11.3           11.2           11.2          9.9
Gross National Saving                        8,157         26.9
Current Account Balance                       -306          1.0                         *                2/3/
Export of Goods, Nn                          7,523         24.8        9        °                   23 6- -       1437'
Imports of Goods, m                          7,537         24.9       10.7 31        12.7_/31       22.3_/3       14.63)I
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
National Income 4/      Labor Force           N.I. Per Worker
USS Bln.         %      Min         Z         US $        _
Agriculture                                   3.29        13.2      3.53    34.4             932         38.3
Industry                                     13.22        53.0      3.36    32.7           3,935       161.7
Con truition                                  2.33         9.3      0.90      8.8          2,589       106.4
Other It                                      6.12        24.5      2.47    24.1           2,478       101.8
Total/Avera4e                         24.96       100.0      10.26   100.0          2,433        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1977
Central Government
Lei Billions       7 of CDP
Total Receipts                                 282.0             46.2
Total Expenditures                             280.4             45.9
Total Surplus                                    1.6              0.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1971      1972        1973        1974       1975        1976       1977
Money Supply                                  ..        ..          ..        160.1       176.4      201.4      207.5
Short-term Bank Credit                         .        ..        131.3       155.3       170.2      194.0      194.5
Retail Prices (1970 - 100)                  101.6      101.6      102.4       103.7       103.9      104.4      105.0
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           1.6        -          0.8         1.3         0.2        0.5        0.5
1/  Growth rate of nationial income.
2/  In current prices.
3/  Growth rates of exports and imports only.
4/  System of kaLterial producLioli iietILwdology.
5/  Includes net output of the non-prodi4tive sector,                                       EMNA  CPDI  ID
December 13, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
- 27 -
SALANCE OF PAYIENTS  (Convertible Currencies)                                    ?MRCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977
(All Currencies)
1971       1976          1977
(MlIlions US $)US $  ln                                         %
Lcpoits of Goods & NFS                  +944       +3,653        3,983   Capital goods              1,837       27
Imports of Goods & NFS                  -988        -3,592       4,080   Consumer goods             1,142       17
Resource Gap (deficit . -)               -44           +61         -97   Foodstuffs                   888       13
Intermediate goods          592        9
Interest Payments                        -0           -122        -195   Raw materials              2,422       35
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25           0           +19   -'ndustrial                2,016       29
Balance on Current Account              -109           -61        -273    Agricultural                ho6        6
Direct Foreign Inv stment                                                       Total               6.881      100
Net MJLT Borrowing1'
Disbursements                      +312          +912         +928          EXrERNAL DEBT (Dec. 31. 1977)
Amortization                        -190          -482        -561
Subtotal                           +122          4430         +367                                  US $ _in
Export Credits Extended_3/ (net)           21         -274        -171
Short-term Credit (net)                  -20           -44        +156   Total M & LT                    3.491
Net Errors & Omission                                   -           -       of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (-)                  -7          +52          +32      currencies                   3,402
Fuel & Related Materials
Imports                               635.6      2,496.8      2,622.1          DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1977
of vhich  Oil and Oil Products       36.6        71T.1        875.4
Exports                               425.5      1,477.5      1,463.0                                   X
of which  Oil and Oil Products    143.0          735.1        688.1
Convertible currencies only 19.0
EXCRANGE RATES
1. Official Rate
Before August 1971           :  6 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973   :  5.53 lei:US$1
February 1973-MIarch 1978    : 4.97 lei:US$1
Since March 1978             : 4.47 lei:US$l
2. Tourist Rate
Before August 1971           :  18 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973        16 lei:US$l
February 1973-October 1974      14.38 lei:US$l
Since October 1974               12 lei:US$l
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978        :  20 lei:US$l
Since March 1978             :  18 lei:US$l
EMENA CPDI ID
December 13, 1978
1/ Includes use of IMF credit.
2 I Included in M & LT Capital.
3/  Includes S, M & LT credits extended.



-28 -                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BAUK GROUP OPFPATIONS IN ROM4ANIA
STA1ERMIT OF BANK LCANTS (As of January 31, 1979).U M
US$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan Number           Year       Borrover            Purpose       Bank   TW  IDA    Undisbursed
One loan fully  disbursed                                          20.0                     -
Ln. 1020-RO           1974       Investment Bar.    Fertilizer   60.0                    8.1
Ln. 1027-RO           1975       Investment Bank.   Special        to.0                  5.2
Steel
Ln. 1028-RO           1975       Investment Bank    Thermal        60.0                  0.0
Power
a/
Ln. 1082-RO           1975       BAFI                Irrigation   70.0                   0.3
Ln. 1083-RO           1975       BAFI                Agricultural 30.0                   7.2
Credit
Ln. 1169-R0           1976       BAFI                Flood Recov- 40.0                   2.9
ery
Ln. 1242-RO           1976       Investment Bank    Hydropower   50.0                   23.3
Ln. 1247-RO           1976       BAFI                Irrigation   60.0                  28.5
Ln. 1368-RO           1977       BAFI                Irrigation   60.0                  42.3
In. 1436-Ro           1977       Investment Ban3k   Bearings       38.0                 37.0
In. 1447-Ro           1977       Investment Bank    Glass Fiber  18.3                    7.9
Tn. 1448-Ro           1977       Investment Bank    Polyester    50.0                   25.4
in. 1479-RO           1978      BAFI                 Agricultural 71.0                  56.7
Credit
Ia. 1509-RO           1978       BAFI                Irrigation   40.5                  40.5
Ln. 1536-Ro           1978       Investment Bank    Tire           85.0                 85.0
Ln. 1581-RO           1978       Investment Bank    Post           60.0                 60.0
Earthquake
Ln. 1634-Ro           1979       Investment Bank    Chemicals    40.0                   4Q0O
Total                            922.8                470.3
Of which has been repaid           -
Total now outstanding
Amount sold        18.6           i8.6
of which repaid    0.0 °
b/
Total now held by Bank           904.2
Total undisbursed                470.3               470-3
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
e/ Subsequent to the above date of this Statement, a loan of $40 million to
the Investrent Bank for the Roman Sen-l,ess ripe rroJect and a loan of US$70
million to the Invest=ent Bank for t!he Second Turceni Therral Power Project
have been signed.



-29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN _XECUTION 1/
LN No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement has been completed, and construction
is well advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be com-
missioned by early 1979, and the urea plant by the second quarter of 1979,
about 18 months later than expected. The final project cost is expected to
be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:  April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
The contracts for the two steel mills under the loan have been signed and
construction is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules. Total
project costs are expected to be essentially equal to appraisal estimates.
The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed in early 1979 and the project
is now expected to be completed in September 1979.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are
likely to result in a nine month delay in commissioning of generating units.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 99 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is almost
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
completed. About 70 percent of the project area was irrigated during 1978.
All remaining works are expected to be completed by April 1979. Total
project costs are expected to be about US$33 million less than appraisal
estimates, and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to be can-
celled if not required for the project before the closing date.
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, is being carried out under bulk
contracts tendered internationally for 1978 Romanian requirements. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$22.8 million as of January 31, 1979 and are 3.5 percent
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are on
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment.
The Romanians advised us that bid evaluation was delayed because of the tech-
nical complexity of the package, but the bid evaluation report has been sub-
mitted to the Bank, approved by the Bank, and the contract has been signed.
Disbursements as of January 31, 1979 totalled $37.1 million or 93 percent of
the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
Apr,il 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed
and mechanized excavation methods are expected to be introduced in 1979.
Project execution is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works
for the dam and underground power station are well underway, and about 75
percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
well underway and progress on these facilities is satisfactory. Facilities
for four dairy farms are complete and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported
heifers (100 percent of total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded.
Procurement contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and
silo in Negruvoda is 62 percent completed. Work on soil erosion control and
the land levelling is behind schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for
the Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and all contracts have
already been awarded. Some construction equipment and about 35 percent of
pipe has been delivered. Construction of project works is underway, progress
is satisfactory, and about 25 percent completion has been achieved.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Bids on most major bid packages have now been received and procure-
ment is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall project costs are expected to be
close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to the initial cost
data.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement is being completed, and execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily with some minor cost overruns.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. BAFI has made
subloan commitments of US$298.4 million or 62 percent of total project costs.
Disbursements as of January 31, 1979 were $14.3 million.
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Contract documents for procurement have been cleared by the Bank
and bids invited for all project procurement. Construction of some of the
project works has been started.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement has been started, but difficulties are being encountered
in obtaining proposals for the main technology/equipment package for OTR tires.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1634    Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January 15,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1651   Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of February
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1652   Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of
February , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Time Table of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country                       Two years;
to prepare the projects:                        April 1976 to April 1978
(b)  The Agency which has prepared               (i) Institute of Land Reclamation
the Projects:                                   Studies and Design (ISPIF)
(ii) National Water Council (NWC)
(c) Date of first presentation to
Bank, and date of the first
Bank mission to consider the
Projects:                                       April 1977 and May 1977
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:         April 23, 1978
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:             January 22, 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  July 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III: Special Conditions:
Special conditions of the loan would be as follows:
(a) Widening and deepening of the Calmatui River would be completed
by December 31, 1981. This component is not a part of the Bank
project but is essential to the drainage system to be constructed
under the Calmatui project (paras 50 and 51).
(b) Approval by the Council of Ministers of the technical and economic
indicators of the Mostistea and Calmatui project, would be a con-
dition of loan effectiveness. This approval of detailed project
parameters is normal under Romanian Planning procedures and will
provide the legal basis for financing and implementation of the
project (para 51).






4_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro
N. ~ ~ ~          ~              ~              ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C
//   __                         I5 -                                               .63060                             -                                                                                           0566666,  6 - -
Irrigation and Drainage Project                                                                                                                            --------- i6  2>I 24g tR                      
CAS6   Woi:.2 dedi.eryCun20s -.05                                                        si    6                            6.   -
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t!- D-h-ooio,,,-
tR.19  DNmchpnr .p.mpirg   i- e             --                   30       A/  6060    2z                  6 \66603566
Sril3 Pres-urP-pingsttCs_ Mfl 2t- :'Db -3
iFi iOi t,g pumptn 2i,n ~~tb;>Mn,,
Pr_ .tP-  p-ped -tr9e  id d-m                                                                    V9      tCun -i 
Ei Rlvers                                    ,                                                  o 0 ,x'i <J|  S     T     i  6  tI66
E-sing dist,lbud an, -kni15                  .                                         S                                              6615536     55,
E.mf lEx ng rr.g.tpnoreI _ .. ..*                                                                                                :60/
Sp-1,1,,r -pfi- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 5'            ~       t                        !'
G.t. t -i l Towrh i-d fiIItges                                                                                      t        N                6t
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Todi  360l i                                                                                    '2tsC   LOElzo< 
OOCnAOOOt ~ ~    ~        ~      ~       ~      Ivmvwe.wdbh                 -1055wee*  n          c/                                                                   /M .yS[S  d--                     >Er     -ade,
W RI WyS f wsIme~e bwhrS >                                                                   5N.i663  w/4                                    6N>s           u       dlsX/ fl  604   '6 lP -;........... rr-gE1 .....,,, i,_ , ,,e6
jt                                                                        0060olon 1ou050r                                       6...........    .       ....... 56 .tia  6>.UX . 1 
1.d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           ITA~0  0'   36                   0
- R-~~~~~~~~~~~~~oio                                       %~                                                              0            66?0
J,111 h-d.ry MM-f-    6U6L.4 b-d22..t-60056m
0-    ,-®.26b-ds                                                                                         .16y0






IBRD 13934
ROMANIA                           NOVEhMBER 1978
tSutreu                                 Mostistea & CaumaJui Irrigation & Drainage Project
' | \                                                        ~~~~CALMAT uI
Project area boundary
'l                                                                                                                                                             EN P I RAS E                         Woter delivery canals
dto                                                                                                                   ,ut D \          \                                                             Dist'Mbctoistribution   cranals
=oWrosor                  -       'oYLBZAn                                    FLOODPLAIc-N[           S, ,i .                                               /        /s FLO I                                                           .  Ground pipe network
(FUTURE)  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ dInC                                                                           Repurrpig and preenure pumrping stat nons
8UZAUX    /  .FUTURE  , ,  IANCA  tO8rd'\.                     - CP4___Drain channels
-                re- c,                                       > Secondary drainage canals
-- - -- -Tile   tube
plo' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,.tNonsaline land with n,urfacedrainageanadirrigationftrom Danube
Saline lands with surtoce and subsurface drainage and
'eclarat Ion worksftrleachingand irrigation romtheDanube
! ,Nosaline landwithsurtacedra,nageandwithout irrigation
i.,li ia  /  Thzs maphes beu e.rvSaline lands without irrigation ond reclamation works.
B.-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cr =o~onav                                                             eln,           8 -1                                                  Areas not part at project
.-qi                                                                                                                         It,                                                                                           Existing oirigation schemes
Gamn,            Meuh.z                                                                                        'j~        '    -         v4         j0            CruresnrdmeoheRIrru .-nyeorrvrodo
'=8C T-,t.I. I'd.'7.                                                                                       Towns tad,9r; _and villages
Gh.r.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rivers
j      8                              W~~~          \      ~ 'Puc~~PA.U'          -'....   ...                                              I.n Leeakespa
......    ... ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZ uJudet boundary (District boundary)
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
i   /                                                                                                 8e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Brf.,t, d. J-n
B..a~~~~~~~~~~~~ f~~~ ~                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
LIZ                                     C                                                         rv,r080ner vne,,v,onermdvrrh, Wrm/vOeoC,nrert,,rion,neirrnrinncn,nenernrb- -d b 11,  W~ t" ~-11   ~ , M
P.~~~~~~~~~~~4'



