Document of
The WVorld Bank
FOR OFF][CIAL USE ONLY
FILE CUiPy
Report N o. 2 2 7 8a-RO
ROMANIA
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF AP'PRAISAL REPORT
March 5, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (plural lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.08
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 1L8.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist: transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having been
revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning in March
1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per IJS$l has been used to convert the prices of all
traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the average cost of
convertible foreign exchange.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                    =    0.0394 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                    =    0.3937 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                          =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     =    0.6214 mile (nii)
1 square kilometer (km2)             =    0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 liter (1)                          =    0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 liter per second (1/sec)           =    0.0353 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)  =    35.3147 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 atmosphere (at)                    =    14.2239 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                      =    1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)                            2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)                   =    2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI           Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP           Agricultural Production Cooperative
CELIF          Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
DIFCA          Department of Land Reclmation and Agricultural Construction
GSI            Group for Supervising Investments
IAS            State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA            Intercooperative Economic Association
IELIF          Enterprise for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
ISPIF          Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Design
MAIA           Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NWC            National Water Council
SMA            Station for Agricultural Machinery
TCIF           Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Works
ROMAN:[AN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US.P ONLY
ROMANIA
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ..................................                         1
A.    The Role of Agriculture  in the Romanian Economy .....                       1
B.    Constraints  to Agricultural Production  ....                ..........      2
C.    Policy Planning and Strategy  ........................                       3
D.    Bank Experience in Agriculture                    ......................     4
II.    THE PROJECT AREA AND NATLONAL INSTITUTIONS  ...............                         6
A.    The Project Area  ......            ........................... .            6
B.    Natural Resources  .         .      ...................................      7
C.    Agricultural Production Organizations  ............ ...                      9
D.    Agricultural Production  .....              ........................        12
E.    Farm Inputs  ............. I.............................                   12
F.    Agricultural Research and Extension  .............              ....        14
G.   The Bank for Agricu]Lture and Food Industry  ..........                      15
H.    Investment Financing .   .............. o   .................               16
I.    Marketing    ...........................................                    17   ,
III.    THE PROJECT  ...............................................                       19
A.    Objectives             ...........................................          19
B.    Detailed Features  .........           ...........................          20
C.    Description of Project Works  ........................                      21
D.    Water Requirements,  Availability and Quality  ........                     26
E.   Water Rights                ........................................         28
F.    Status of Engineering  ......              .........................        28
G.    Cost Estimates  ......................................                      29
H.    Financing             ...........................................           31
I.    Cost Recovery  .......................................                      32
J.    Implementation Schedule  .....              .......................         33
K.    Procurement              .........................................          34
L.   Disbursements  . .  ........ .             .........................         34
M.    Environment and Health  .... o             .........................        35
N.    The Role of Women ......             .............................          35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Romania in
June 1978, consisting of Mr. M.H. Tirmazi, Ms. A. Trzeciak (IBRD) and
Messrs. J. Marinet and R. Qureshi (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
IV.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ...................................  36
A.  Organization and Management .........................    36
B.  Operation and Maintenance ...........................    38
C.  Accounts   and  Audit   ..................................  38
D.  Project Monitoring and Completion Report ....   ........    39
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...............................    40
A.  Project Production and Markets ......................    40
B.  Prices   ..............................................   44
C.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .....................    45
D.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis  ....    45
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................    49
ANNEXES
Annex No. Table No.
1          1      Climatological Data for Mostistea
2     Climatological Data for Calmatui
2          1      Present and Future Cropping Pattern for Mostistea
2     Present and Future Cropping Pattern for Calmatui
3          1      Farm Machinery for Mostistea and Calmatui
2     Operation and Maintenance Equipment for Mostistea and
Calmatui
3     Equipment to be Procured Following International
Competitive Bidding
4           1     Cropping Pattern and Estimated Water Requirements for
Mostistea
2     Cropping Pattern and Estimated Water Requirements for
Calmatui
5          1      Cost Estimate for Mostistea
2     Cost Estimate for Calmatui
3     Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs for Mostistea
and Calmatui
6          1      Estimated Schedule of Expenditure for Mostistea
2     Estimated Schedule of Expenditure for Calmatui
7                 Schedule of Disbursements
8                 Prices Used for Economic Analysis
1     Output Prices
2     Input P'rices



Table of Contents (Continued)
9                   Economic Cost and Benefit Streams With and Without the
Project
10           1       Annual Pro(luction Costs - Mostistea
2      Annual Production Costs - Calmatui
11                   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project Implementation Volume
CHARTS
1. Implementation Schedule for Mostistea WB 19663
2. Implementation Schedule for Calmatui WB 19662
3. Organization of MAIA WB 16194
4. Organization of National Water Council WB 17855
MAPS
Mostistea IBRD 13933
Calmatui IBRD 13934






AP'RAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Role of Agriculture in the Romanian Economy
1.01      Agriculture plays an important role in the Romanian economy despite
the predominance of the industrial sector in the post-war period. In 1976
agriculture accounted for 14% of social product 1/, 36% of the total labor
force, and 11% of total fixed assets. Agriculture's share in the distribution
of Gross Domestic Product was 13% in 1976, as compared with 63% by industry
and 24% by services. While the agricultural sector's contribution to national
income 2/ decreased from 28% in 1950 to 18.3% in 1976, it nonetheless accounted
for 23% of total exports and 30% of convertible currency earnings in 1976, thus
continuing to fuel industrial expansion. Production increases on a per capita
basis have kept well ahead of population growth (estimated at an average of
0.9% per annum for 1970-75), permitting both increases in exports as well as
in domestic food consumption for an increasingly urban population and in raw
materials for agroindustrial production. Agriculture also serves as a reserve
labor pool for transfer to other sectors, especially industry. The agricul-
tural labor force has declined from 6.2 million or 74% in 1950 to 3.6 million
or 36% in 1976, although more than half of the population lives in rural areas.
Due to the increasing diversion of the male labor force to industry in partic-
ular, women now constitute the majority of the agricultural labor force.
1.02      In 1976 gross agricultural production was more than three timaes
greater than in 1950, with an annual growth rate of 4.2% over the period
1965-1975, and of 8.9% over the period 1970-76. Production increases have
been achieved through infusions of capital, increased use of material inputs,
improvements in technologies, scale economies from reorganization and special-
ization, and expansion in irrigated area. Cereals (maize, wheat) remain the
major crops. A 14% reduction in thet area under cereals over the last twenty
years has been more than offset by rising yields. Expansion of livestcock pro-
duction has also been significant. Livestock products accounted for 41% of
the gross value of agricultural production in 1976, and crops for the remain-
ing 59%.
1/   Social product is a gross output indicator defined as the total output
of material production generated at all stages of production. The pro-
ductive sector comprises those branches of the economy in which mate-
rials are produced, circulated and distributed for final use.
2/   National income is the sum of net products of the productive sector,
where net product is equal to gross product less material expenditures.
It does not include the net products of the non-productive sector.



-2-
1.03      Out of a total area of 23.8 million ha, agricultural land makes up
14.9 million ha or 62.6%. Of the lands employed in agriculture, arable land
constitutes 65.3%, pastures 20.3%, meadows 9.4%, and orchards and vineyards
the remaining 5%. Of the three identifiable agroclimatic zones, Zone I or
the Plains Zone in the south and west, is the best endowed with fertile soils
and irrigation infrastructure. Yields in the Plains Zone, which is the major
grain belt, have increased more rapidly than in the foothills (Zone II) and
Mountains and Tablelands (Zone III).
B. Constraints to Agricultural Production
1.04      Despite its importance, agriculture remains underdeveloped relative
to other sectors of the economy. The major constraint to the stabilization of
production is the wide variation in yearly rainfall, particularly in the
southern and eastern plains. Approximately 2.5 million ha in the flood plains
of the numerous rivers are subject to flood damage, and inadequate drainage
limits crop production on much of this area. Soil erosion is also a problem.
Although long experience exists in building minor flood control and drainage
structures, construction of large-scale irrigation and flood control works is
relatively recent: irrigated area increased from 199,700 ha or 2% of arable
land in 1960 to 1,900,000 ha ort 19% of arable land in 1977.
1.05      The agricultural sector is underdeveloped relative to other sectors
in terms of productivity and income distribution. Agricultural productivity
in terms of value-added per worker is less than one third that of industry and
about half that of all sectors combined. While there has been some growth in
agricultural labor productivity which has provided sufficient resources to
improve incomes of agricultural workers and to supply capital for agriculture
and other sectors, incomes in the agricultural sector remain at least 10%
below those in other sectors. Among the types of production units, production
increases in State Agricultural Enterprises (IASs) over the period 1965-1975
have been more than twice those of the Agricultural Production Cooperatives
(CAPs). This has been the result of a policy of greater investments per ha,
a greater share of fertile land and farm machinery, more use of fertilizer and
other inputs, and better management practices in the IASs than in the CAPs.
It appears, nonetheless, that the marginal productivity of capital inputs has
been higher on CAPs, thus indicating the potential for production expansion on
CAPs. Furthermore, due to CAPs' larger share of production and employment,
Government has recognized that the growth of the agricultural sector depends
largely on the development of agriculture in cooperatives. Their potential
is to be developed in the future by allocating an increasing share of agricul-
tural investments to the cooperative sector.



- 3 -
C. Policy Planning and Strategy
1.06       Agricultural policy is formulated within the framework of a national
plan at the highest State level. In order to achieve centrally delineated
socio-economic targets, the plan encompasses all aspects of investment,
finance, production and marketing. Policy is then transmitted through general
guidelines and indicators for preparation of detailed five-year and annual
plans beginning at the farm level. Technologies are applied nationwide on the
basis of centrally developed models derived from a well-organized syst em of
agricultural research.
1.07       During the 1976-80 five-year plan period the share of agriculture
in national income is projected to decline slightly, although average annual
investment compared with the previous plan, is to increase by 51% to US$1.2
billion. 1/ Of this about 50% is to be allocated to CAPs and Stations for
Agricultural Machinery (SMAs) and 16% to IASs. Investments in irrigation
infrastructure and farm machinery are increasing: irrigated area is to
increase from about 1.4 million ha (1975) to about 2.6 million ha (1980) and
tractor usage is to be increased from one per 81 ha in 1975 to one per 60 ha
of arable land in 1980. The fertilizer application rate is also expected to
rise from a level of 95 kg of active substance in 1975 to 250-280 kg per ha of
arable land, including vineyards, and orchards (1980). The combination of
such measures is expected to result in increases of 30-40% in major crop
yields. Gross agricultural output over the 1976-80 Plan period is expected
to grow by 28-44% or at an annual rate of 5.1%-7.6%. 1/ Although 1977 statis-
tics are not yet available, those for 1976 show progress toward achieving at
least the lower bound targets: investment in agriculture in 1976 was 10% over
that in 1975; the area under irrigation was increased by 254,700 ha or 23% of
the planned 5-year increases; tractor usage increased to one tractor per 76 ha
of arable land; the fertilizer application rate increased to 103 kg of active
substance per ha. Gross agricultural output was 17.2% higher in 1976 than in
1975, but preliminary figures for 1977 show a decline of 1.3% over 1976. The
decline is attributable to climatic factors, emphasizing the need to overcome
this major constraint.
1.08       Among the main features of Romania's long-term development strategy
are the reorganization and modernization of agriculture, the development of
human resources, and the balanced regional distribution of production and
incomes. According to the 1981-85 Plan guidelines the intensive development
of agriculture will continue with a view to improve the food supply of the
population, meet the raw material requirements of industry, and create exporL
availabilities. While Plan guidelines tend to project lower targets than the
final Plan, the volume of investments indicated is 40% greater than under the
1/   With the approval of the Supplementary Plan in December 1977, total
investment in agriculture over the 5-year period was increased by US$0.73
billion bringing average annual investment to US$1.4 billion.  The target
for gross agricultural output has been increased to 40-54% or to an annual
rate of 6.9-9.0%.



current Plan. Gross agricultur-al output is projected to increase at an aver-
age annual rate of 4.2-4.5%. Cereals are to retain their major share of
production with a projected volume of 28-29 million tons by 1985. Increases
are also envisaged in industrial crops, mainly sugar beet, sunflower, soy
beans, hemp and flax, and in livestock production.  These increaoes are to
be realized through a continued policy of investments in irrigation and
mechanization and a shift towards greater support, mainly through investments,
to CAPs than in the past. 1/ The area under irrigation is to reach 4 million
ha by 1985 and nearly 20% of i-nvestments in agriculture is to be used to
achieve complete mechanization of most crop and livestock production opera-
tions. Concurrently the proportion of the labor force employed in agriculture
is expected to decline to 29% by 1980 and to 21% by 1985. The intercoopera-
tive councils are to be strengthened in order to better coordinate, consolidate,
and modernize CAP output. At the same time cooperation between CAPs and IASs
is to be emphasized. Production on individually owned plots of CAP members
and on privately owned farms is to be encouraged as well as forms of associa-
tion among such producers. These measures indicate an attempt to draw all
segments of agricultural production, including private farmers, into the
overall planning framework. With the expected increases in agricultural
production and productivity, the real income of farmers is expected to rise by
20-22%, with a corresponding increase in guaranteed incomes for all categories
of CAP members.
D. Bank Experience in Agriculture
1.09      The Bank has made twenty loans to Romania since it became a member
in December 1972, for a total lending volume of US$1,032.8 million. Seven of
these, totalling US$371.5 million, have been in agriculture, of which three
are irrigation projects, one irrigation and agricultural development project,
one agricultural credit project, one agricultural component of a flood recovery
project, and one pig production and processing project. The agricultural
projects are supervised about twice a year and are progressing satisfactorily
with no major problems. A brief description and the current status of projects
under supervision in the agricultural sector are summarized below:
(a)  Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project 1082-RO:  US$70.0 million;
Board date: 1/28/75; Effective date, 5/5/75. The project will
irrigate about 100,000 ha. Crops grown include maize, barley,
soybeans, sunflower, alfalfa hay and maize silage. Progress is
satisfactory. The P'roject Completion Date is December 31, 1978
and the Borrower is to prepare a Project Completion Report during
fall 1978.
1/   The CAPs' share of investments in agriculture is increasing from about
45% (20% excluding SMAs) during the 1971-75 Plan period to about 50%
(25% excluding SMAs) during the 1976-80 Plan, and to about 55% (for CAPs
and SMAs combined) during 1981-85.



(b) Sadova Corabia Agricultural Credit Project (1083-RO: US$30.0
million; Board date, 1/28/75; Effective date 4/29/75). The
project provides for a wi,de range of on-farm investments
under an existing irrigation scheme, including orchard and
vineyard production, livestock/dairy production, agro-
industrial development and technical assistance. Imple-
mentation progress is satisfactory. Disbursements are
roughly on schedule.
(c) Flood Recovery Project (1169-RO: US$40.0 million; Board
date, 11/4/75; Effective date 12/2/75). The project provides
for rehabilitation, drainage and flood control works,  estab-
lishment of an early warning system for floods, and provision
of agricultural credit to farms affected by the mid-1975 floods.
All 248 subprojects for rehabilitation and repair of the irri-
gation, drainage and flood control systems have been completed.
The completion date has been extended by six months to June 1979
to allow for completion of the flood warning system component.
(d) Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
(1247-RO: US$60.0 million; Board date 4/27/76; Effective date
11/3/76). The project is the first of Bank loans to Romania in
which irrigation and credit are combined in a single project.
Irrigation works will supply water over about 65,000 ha for the
production of feedgrains (maize, barley), soybeans, sunflower,
alfalfa hay and maize silage, as well as wheat, vegetables,
fruits and grapes. Other project components are 11 dairy units
including 9,130 imported heifers, 2 beef fattening units, 1
grain storage silo, 1 feedmill and 17 rural water supply schemes.
Under the irrigation component works are progressing satisfac-
torily. Under the agricultural development component, physical
facilities at 4 dairy farms are finished, the feedmill and silo
are 62% completed and contracts for all equipment and imported
heifers have been awarded.
(e) Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project (1368-RO: US$60.0 million;
Board date, 2/17/77; Effective date, 6/23/77). The project will
irrigate about 148,000 ha for production of feedgrains, oil/
protein crops and forages. Progress on construction of the
irrigation infrastructure is satisfactory.
(f) Pig Production and Processing Project (1479-RO: US$71.0 million;
Board date, 7/12/77; Effective date, 9/15/77). The project
represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a devel-
opment project at the national level. It provides for the devel-
opment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and
selection centers, expansion of industrialized swine production,
and provision of slaughtering and processing facilities. Proj-
ect implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements
are in line with appraisal estimates. 1977 commitments are



-6-
expected to generate an incremental output of 1.13 million pigs
in 1979 and about 1.65 million pigs in 1980 and thereafter.
(g) Viisoara Irrigation Project (1509-RO: US$40.5 million; Board
date, 2/19/78; Effective date, 5/15/78). The project will provide
irrigation and drainage facilities over about 110,000 ha for pro-
duction of maize, sugar beet, vegetables and fruits, soybeans,
alfalfa hay, maize silage, and other fodders. Preliminary works
have started in the field.
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
2.01      Location
(i) Mostistea. The project is located about 20 km east of Bucharest,
in Ilfov and lalomita districts, on both banks of the Mostistea
River, a left bank tributary of the Danube River. It is limited
on the north by the lalomita river, on the south and east by the
first phase of Mostistea Project already completed by Romania,
and on the west by Arges river and its tributaries.
(ii)  Calmatui.  The project is located about 150 km northeast of
Bucharest in Buzau and Braila districts, on both banks of
Calmatui River, a left bank tributary of the Danube. Bounded
on the north by the Bucharest-Buzau-Braila railway line, on the
east by the Braila-Viziru terraces, on the south by the towns of
Insuratei, and Costesti, and on the west by the town of Buzau
and Pietrosal area; the total area of the Calmatui Basin is
about 172,000 ha, of which about 30,000 ha have already been
included in the Ialomita-Calmatui irrigation project (Loan
1368-RO). The present project includes an additional 66,930 ha.
2.02      Topography and Drainage
(i) Mostistea. The project area, 158,540 ha gross, (155,871 ha net)
has a general slope of 1 to 2 per thousand from northwest to
southeast. The Mostistea River flows in the middle of the proj-
ect area and acts as its principal drain. The flat areas are
interspersed with numerous irregularly shaped depressions aver-
aging 1 to 7 per 100 ha; with depths from 0.5m to 4.Om covering
about 5% of the area. In about 59,200 ha, the depth to ground-
water is less than 5m and, of this, 4,200 ha have a depth less
than 2m. With the introduction of irrigation about 52% of the
project area would require measures to improve its surface
drainage and an area of about 2.7% would also require sub-surface
drainage.



- j -
(ii) Calmatui. The project area, 66,930 ha gross, (64,527 ha net) lying
wholly within the catchment of Calmatui River has a general slope
of about 1 to 3 per thousand from the northwest to southeast and
is interspersed with depressions of 1 to 5 ha, with depths up to Im.
Numerous dead valleys roughly parallel to the Calmatui River are
also in evidence. When considered in conjunction with the poor
general land slope these microrelief features create unfavorable
drainage conditions. The present capacity of the Calmatui River
is badly curtailed by meanders and siltation.  The depth to ground-
water is less than 2m over about 60% of the project area and ranges
between 2m to 5m in the remaining 40%.  The mineralization of ground-
water varies from about 2,000 parts per million to about 4,000 parts
per million which renders it unfit for use for irrigation. The salt
content of Calmatui River water is also high ranging between 1,200
to 2,700 ppm. Natural drainage of the project area is deficient and
surface and subsurface drainage would have to be provided for the
entire project area including widening of Calmatui River.
B. Natural Resources
2.03      Climate
(i)  Mostistea.  The principaL climatological data for the project is
shown at Annex 1 Table 1. Rainfall varies widely from year to
year.  Winter crops, namely wheat and barley, grow in relatively
favorable conditions but summer crops suffer from drought, high-
lighting the necessity for irrigation. The total yearly number
of sunshine hours is low; nevertheless, from May to the end of
September sunshine is adequate for plant growth. Wind velocity
would not be a constraint: to sprinkler irrigation, as strong
winds prevail mainly from February to May when irrigation is
minimal.
(ii) Calmatui. Annex 1 Table 2 gives the main climatological data
for the Calmatui project area. The Calmatui plain has a climate
nearly similar to Mostistea, with cold winters and dry hot summers
resulting in high evapotranspiration losses. The total number of
sunshine hours is somewhat low, and the climatic conditions are
comparatively less suitable for agriculture than in Mostistea.
Irrigation can greatly improve the yields for summer crops. Drain-
age would be a pre-requisite for any improvement in the crop grow-
ing conditions in this flat clayey plain.
2.04      Soils
(i)  Mostistea.  The pedological study of Mostistea plain was carried
out at a scale of 1:50,000. The soils are formed on loess depo-
sits, under steppe conditions, with continental climate character-
ized by cold winters, dry summers, average rainfall of 500mm, and



- 8 -
poor drainage. Such soils are too dry for afforestation, the
main vegetation being perennial graminae. Most of the soils
are chernozems, more or less transformed. On steep slopes near
Mostistea River, chernozems are eroded, and anti erosion measures
would be required.
(ii)  Calmatui.  The pedological study for the area, completed in 1972,
consists of 300 transverse profiles at a scale of 1:50,000 fol-
lowed by an analytic IBM program which considered type of soils,
ground water depth and mineralization. Chocolate colored chernozem
and sandy chernozem are the best soils in the area. Solonchak are
saline, with PH 7.5, poor in humus, with white deposits on the
surface, and are erodible. Solonetz, are alkali soils with high
PH (up to 10) leading to clay dispersion.
2.05      Land Classification
(i)  Mostistea.  Sixty two percent of the soils of the Mostistea plain
belong to Class I, wiich includes lands best suited for irrigated
farming, able to produce sustained high yields for a wide variety
of crops.   These are well structured soils, of medium texture and
with good water retention capacity. Thirty four percent of the
soils belong to Class II, and are suitable for irrigated farming
with drainage measures. They have a medium heavy to heavy texture,
high water retention capacity, moderate permeability, and are not
affected by salinization. Three point seven percent of the soils
show high ground table (0.5 to 2 m depth) and require drainage
measures for irrigation. Zero point three percent of the soils are
eroded soils on the slopes of Mostistea River and its tributaries
and require soil erosion control.
(ii)  Calmatui.  The Calmatui plain has been classified under 5 cate-
gories: Class I soils cover 32.5% of the area and are mainly
chernozem, located on flat lands with ground water depth over
5 m. Class II soils, mainly chernozem and alluvium are phreat-
ically wet and cover 19% of the area. Class III are over 17.5%
of the area, mostly sandy, moderately salinized, located on flat
areas with ground water table at a depth of 2 to 5 m, requiring
small but frequent rates of irrigation. Four percent of the
soils are in Class IV. These are salinized soils, in depressions,
with phreatic level between 0.6 and 2 m, mineralized ground water,
requiring deep drainage, leaching and irrigation. After reclama-
tion these would be converted to Class III. Twenty seven percent
of the soils are in Class V, located in depressions with strongly
mineralized ground water at levels between 0.6 and 2 m.



- 9 -
C. Agricultural Production Organizations 1/
Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAPs)
2.06      Background.  During the final stage of a three-phase drive toward
collectivization from 1945-1962, private farms and Agricultural Associations 2/
were merged into what are presently known as Agricultural Production Coopera-
tives (CAPs). The evolution of land ownership in the agricultural sector in
the table below shows that the CAP form of organization has predominated since
the early 1960's. Since that time there has been some reduction in the
number of CAPs, from 4,680 in 1965 to 4,418 in 1976.
AGRICULTURAL LAND BY TYPE OF OWNERSHIP, 1950-1976
Agricultural Land             Arable Land
1955   1965   1976   1950   1955   1965   1976
State units                       25.5   30.2   30.0    9.2   13.7   20.0   21.1
Cooperatives                       6.4   60.8   60.6    2.8    8.2   75.3   74.2
Agricultural Associations /1       2.8    0.4        -      -    4.0    0.1        -
Individual Farms                  65.3    8.6    9.4   88.0   74.1    4.6    4.7
Source: 1977 Statistical Yearbook
CAPs, whose membership includes about 3.4 million families, own 9.1 million ha
(60.6%) of agricultural land, of which 7.2 million ha (74.2% of total arable)
is arable. Almost one million ha of the total agricultural land, or less than
0.3 ha per family, are set aside as small plots for the personal use cif coop-
erative members. CAP farms produce about 67% of all cereals, 48% of green
peas, beans and soybeans, 41% of potatoes and vegetables, 58% of forage crops,
99% of sugarbeet, and 80% of oilseeds.
1/   For greater detail on the evolution and organization of Agricultural
Production Organizations, please see Romania: The Industrialization of
an Agrarian Economy (Report No. 1601-RO), Volume II, and previous
appraisal reports in the agricultural sector.
2/   Agricultural Associations, an intermediary form of organization intro-
duced in the early 1950's, allowed participating farmers to pool their
lands without losing title and to be paid according to their contribution
to production.



- 10 -
2.07      Organization and Management.  The land and assets of a CAP are owned
jointly by its members. CAPs do not own farm machinery or equipment but rely
on the services of state owned and operated SMAs. These enterprises are
responsible for providing all farm machinery and implements to CAPs, whenever
required, in return for fixed charges for various operations, which may be
paid either in cash or in kind. The management of a CAP is the responsibility
of its President, usually one or two Vice Presidents, a Management Council,
and a General Assembly. The President and the Vice-President (if any) conduct
the day-to-day operations and are assisted by the chief economist, who is not
only responsible for the preparation of a sound investment plan but also for
the accounting and the financial management of CAP affairs. The Management
Council as the executive body of the CAP is responsible for coordinating the
CAP's operations. Its membership consists of the President and Vice-President
of the CAP, the chief economist, chiefs of the farms in the CAP, and the
elected representatives of technicians and members. The governing body of a
CAP is its General Assembly, which consists of all working adults (ages 16-62)
in the CAP. The General Assembly is responsible for drafting the production,
investment, and financial plans; for ratifying major contracts with suppliers,
buyers, mechanization enterprises, etc.; and for deciding the allocation of
income.
2.08      CAPs in Project Area.  In Mostistea, 57 CAPs currently own 129,432
ha or 81% of the total cropped project area. CAP holdings range from 290 to
5,883 ha, for a median holding of 2,665 ha. The total number of cooperating
families is about 60,000 with 66,000 family members comprising the labor
force. Of the latter, almost 31,000 are permanently employed outside the
CAPs at various time periods. About 80% of CAP workers are engaged in crop
production, with the remainder engaged in livestock production. In Calmatui,
60 CAPs currently own 54,206 ha, or 73.7% of the area of which 53,113 ha is
cropped. The number of cooperating families is about 49,000. Almost 20,000
workers are permanently employed outside the CAPs, while 21,000 are engaged
in crop production. CAP members in both areas provide virtually all the
necessary labor, so temporary labor is rarely needed.
2.09       In the Mostistea project area, small plots of cooperative land
retained by CAP members for their personal use amount to 6,566 ha or about 4%
of the total area, and in Calmatui, 5,242 ha or about 8% of the area. The
maximum allowance per family, which is decided by the CAP, is 2,500-3,000 m2.
All of these individual plots would be irrigated under the project.
2.10      To optimize the layout of the irrigation network, a total of 14,500
ha of land requires border adjustment. CAP members have been consulted about
realignment of farm boundaries and have agreed to the proposed works. For any
land which has to be acquired for canals or other works, the project provides
for compensation in kind.
State Agricultural Enterprises (IASs)
2.11      Background.  State Agricultural Enterprises were initially estab-
lished in the early post-war period by combining a portion of land expropriated
from landlords and the church with existing Government-owned land. By 1950



- II 
9.2% of arable land had been allocated to state units (UAS and IAS) 1/ and by
1965 the corresponding figure was 20%, with a marginal increase since (see
para 2,06). The structure of the state sector has, however, been changed
through a policy of consolidation by which the number of IASs was reduced
from 721 in 1965 to 215 in 1972. As of 1976, the number had increased again
to 392. These changes have been associated with efforts to reorganize some
IASs into agro-industrial type complexes where state enterprises and their
individual farm units have been separated and reassigned to form enterprises
specializing in only one activity. The trend toward specialization has occur-
red mainly in pig, poultry and grain production, whereas a mixed farm struc-
ture has prevailed for other livestock due to their dependence on land for
pasture and fodder.
2.12      IASs currently own about 2.1 million ha of agricultural land, of
which about 1.7 million ha are arable, and employ about 270,000 persons. They
produce about 19% of all cereals, 40% of green peas, beans, and soybeans, 19%
of oilseeds, 5% of potatoes and vegetables, and 29% of forage crops.
2.13      Organization and Management.  IASs are owned by the State and are
operated and managed by employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry (MAIA). A single enterprise may consist of several farms. Storage,
transport, and farm equipment appropriate to the type of farm are supplied by
the district office of the MAIA, owned by the IAS, and maintained by a Central
Service Unit. The chief executive officer of an IAS is a Director, who is
appointed by the General Director of IASs in the Ministry. He is assisted by
the chief engineers of the farms in the IAS and a chief economist/accountant.
Other technicians required for the farms are included on the staff. The
governing body or Workers Council of an IAS consists of the top management,
chiefs of the farms, representatives of the unions and the Party, and elected
representatives of the workers. In keeping with the territorial organizations
of planning and administration, the Director reports to the trust of IASs at
the judet level, as well as to the Workers Council of the Enterprise. The
Workers Council typically meets monthly to take the most important decisions.
In between these meetings, an Executive Bureau headed by the Director and
usually composed of a Technical Director, Chief Mechanical Engineer, and Chief
Accountant, manage day-to-day operations.
2.14      IASs in the Project.  Of the total of 159,680 ha of currently arable
land in the Mostistea project area five IASs own 23,592 ha or 14.8%. Each IAS
coordinates four to seven specialized farms. IAS holdings range from 1,060 to
9,494 ha with a median holding of 4,810 ha. In Calmatui, seven IASs own 16,475
ha of which 16,143 are cropped. Aside from their own employees, IASs rely on
labor available from neighboring CAPs to meet their requirements.
1/   UAS stands for State Agricultural Units, which include IASs and other
state units such as research stations, seed farms, greenhouse enterprises
and others responsible for leasing pasture and meadowland to private
farmers and cooperatives.



- 12 -
D. Agricultural Production
2.15      Present Land Use -- Mostistea.  Out of 177,431 ha of project area,
159,680 ha are arable and 17,751 ha, non-arable. The 159,680 ha of arable
lands include 1,140 ha belonging to Fundulea Research Station. Today 31% of
the cultivated lands are grown with maize grain, 28.4% with wheat, 12.6% with
sunflower, 9% with alfalfa, 4.5% with barley, 4% with soybean, the remaining
10.5% being shared among beans, peas and other vegetables, sugar beet, and
vetch. No double cropping is possible due to the lack of irrigation. Details
of land use and yields are given in Annex 2, Table 1.
2.16      Present Land Use -- Calmatui.  The Calmatui project area includes
both non saline (86%) and saline (14%) soils. Under rainfed conditions non
saline soils have poor yields. Saline soils are not under cultivation, except
after a rainy year which provides some leaching and allows to grow crops whose
yields are very low. We assume that under present conditions saline soils are
not under cultivation, and that deterioration of the area would make future
production without drainage unlikely. Today 37% of the cultivated lands are
devoted to maize grain, 23.3% to wheat, 13.1% to sunflower, 10.2% to alfalfa,
9.2% to barley and 7.2% to sugar beet. Details of land use and yields are
given in Annex 2, Table 2.
E. Farm Inputs
2.17      Mechanization and Labor.  (a) Mechanization.  State farms (IAS) are
fully mechanized, with their own machinery; the number of crops grown is
limited to 4 to 5 on the average. Cooperative farms (CAPs) can have more
diversified cropping patterns. They do not own machinery, but are served by
SMAs, each SMA unit working for 3 or more cooperatives. Land preparation and
sowing, fertilizer, herbicide and pesticide applications, transport, cereal
harvesting and straw baling are fully mechanized; weeding between the rows,
consisting of 80% of weeding requirements, is mechanized, while remaining 20%
along the rows of crops is inaccessible to machines and is done by hand.
There are not enough corn-pickers and 58% of the maize grain is harvested by
machines, 42% by hand. Given the number of cultivated ha in the project and
the working hours per ha and assuming replacement after 10,000 hours for
tractors, 3,200 hours for combines and 2,500 hours for corn pickers, every
year it would be necessary to replace 380 tractors, 17 combines and 59 corn-
pickers in Mostistea and 89 tractors, 10 combine harvesters and 50 corn
pickers in Calmatui; (b) Labor. In addition to mechanization, requirements
of labor have also been estimated in terms of number of working days per crop
per month. These calculations of working days do not include the time spent
by the tractor and combine drivers whose salaries are included in the working
cost of mechanization. IAS drivers are employed by the IAS, but CAP drivers
are employed by SMA working for the CAP. There are two peak periods for labor:
one in May for weeding along the row of crops, thinning sugar beet, and
transplanting vegetables, the other in September-October at harvesting time.
These figures apply to both IASs and CAPs. Production of wheat, barley,



- 13 -
maize, vegetables, soybeans, sunflowier and sugar beet being uniformly shared
between IAS and CAP 1/ the working days would also be uniformly shared in the
same proportions. IASs can employ temporary workers living nearby or trans-
ported from other parts of Romania for the peak labor periods. CAPs have
enough permanent workers (see para. 2.08) to provide the manpower required for
the peak periods (working capacity of 770,000 working days per month assuming
25 working days, 924,000 working days per month assuming 30 working days.)
Even during the peak period underemployment exists in the Calmatui area.
2.18      Seeds.  Seed requirements per cultivated ha, and price per kilo of
seed are fixed by MAIA based on a decision of the Ministers' Council. Seed
prices represent the price paid to seed enterprises which buy these seeds from
IASs and CAPs responsible for seed multiplication. This price is low because
it does not include the cost of production of foundation seeds, superelite
seeds and elite seeds, which are produced by Fundulea Central Research Station
and its regional branches. Of the seeds provided by the seed enterprises,
wheat and barley seeds are renewed every two years; while for other crops
seeds are bought for each crop. Romanian organization for seed production
seems good, and already the yields reached at the experimental farm level are
similar to those obtained in the most advanced countries.
2.19      Fertilizers.  Nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers are locally pro-
duced, although for phosphate the raw material is imported. Potash is
imported. It is generally assumed that Romanian soils are rich enough in
potassium and do not need potash fertilizers. Until now, under rainfed condi-
tions, we can agree that potash application has had no significant effect, but
under irrigation, the high expected yields would rapidly require it. E'otash
has been included in the fertilization formula for some crops.  Over thLe last
5 years the amount of fertilizer applied to crops has increased significantly
due to the construction of fertilizer plants for nitrogen and phosphates
(Romania is a net exporter of fertilizers). The fertilizer formulae proposed
for the project are appropriate: for maize the proposed formula was slightly
reduced. Based on information provided by Fundulea Research Station, proposed
formulae for orchards and vineyards which are old plantations with low yields,
have been substantially reduced.  To make fertilization fully effective,
fertilizers must be more uniformly spread, especially fertilizers applied
during the growing period.
2.20      Plant Protection.  A wide range of pesticides and herbicides is
used. Today herbicides are used on the whole area grown with wheat and
barley, on 30% of the fields grown with maize, and on a small percentage of
the fields grown with soybeans; with the project, herbicides are foreseen
for all crops. Seed treatment and provision for pest control have been
included in the production costs for the different crops. Regional research
stations are responsible for pest control advice to both IASs and CAPs. IASs
do their own treatments, while for CAPs, the SMAs, through intercoop councils
are responsible for weed and pest control treatments at rates fixed by MAIA.
1/   Mostistea:  IAS 14.8%, CAP 81%, and other small units 4.2%; Calmatui:
IAS 22.4%, CAP 73.7%, and other small units, 3.9%.



- 14-
F. Agricultural Research and Extension
2.21      Agricultural Research.  The Academy of Agriculture and Forestry
Sciences coordinates all agricultural research in Romania, which is carried
out in 13 institutes, 6 central stations and 41 research stations. These
facilities, which are well distributed throughout the country's ecology zones,
are staffed by about 1,600 scientists and cover about 80,000 ha. The Fundulea
Research Institute in the Mostistea project area is responsible for applied
research in cereals and industrial crops. Some of Fundulea's research
findings on crops grown under the project are summarized below:
Yield under        Actual Yield
experimental        in the Pro-
conditions       duction sector
-----------…tons/ha)-----------
Wheat                          7,to 8             6 to 6.5
Barley                         8 to 11            6.5 to 7.5
Maize                         10 to 14            7 to 9
Sunflower                      3 to 4.5           3 to 3.5
Soybeans                       3.5 to 4.5            3.5
Sugar beet                    70 to 90           60 to 70
Alfalfa                       16 to 18               12
2.22      Extension Services.  Extension services are provided by the General
Directorate of Agriculture in each district, which coordinates the programs of
CAPs and IASs. Its main activity is with CAPs. IASs, which have their own
specialists provided by the Department of State Farms, are subordinated to the
General Directorate for program coordination only. At the Ilfov district
(Mostistea) level, the General Director of Agriculture has 3 deputy directors,
one for crop production and all CAP activities, one for animal husbandry, and
one for planning. In the crop production department, six specialists, includ-
ing four agriculturists, one horticulturist and one irrigation specialist, all
with long experience, advise and supervise Ilfov's 212 CAPs and 33 intercoop
councils, and prepare the program to be implemented. The extension organiza-
tion for Calmatui is similar. The extension staff has a direct say in improve-
ment of cultural practices and application of technology instead of an advisory
role. Research findings pass rapidly into practice and the supervisory staff
of each CAP and IAS adequately monitor their application.
2.23      Training of both IAS and CAP field staff is provided periodically at
the General Directorate through short and medium term courses. For special-
ized personnel, graduate courses are organized during the winter by the Insti-
tute of Agronomy and the Faculty of Land Reclamation in Bucharest. Irrigated
schemes and land reclamation works near the project areas provide opportunities
for gaining practical experience with works similar to those envisaged under
the project.



- 15 -
G.  The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2.24      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is a State-owned
credit institution established in 1968 to finance and supervise investments
and operations in agriculture and agroindustries for State, cooperative and,
to a limited extent, individual production units. The principal responsibili-
ties of BAFI are to:
(a) act as fiscal agent for collection and distribution
of State budgetary funds;
(b) provide short-term production credit;
(c) review both technical and financial aspects of invest-
ment proposals of State enterprises and cooperatives;
(d) provide long-term investmen,t credit;
(e) exercise financial control over execution of invest-
ment and financial plans;
(f) maintain deposit accounts for State enterprises and
cooperatives; and
(g) cooperate with foreign and international organizations
to finance investment in agriculture and agroindustries.
2.25      The Administrative Council is BAFI's policy-making body.  It is
composed of BAFI's President, Vice Presidents, department directors from the
Bucharest head office and major branches, economic and agricultural experts,
representatives of ministries and other central State agencies, and a delegate
designated by the General Trade Union of Romania. Between the sessions of the
Administrative Council, the Executive Bureau acts as the decision-making
body. Its members are the President, Vice Presidents, three department
directors and the trade union representative 1/.
2.26      BAFI operates through 39 branches, 92 sub-branches and about 850
credit cooperatives which serve as its agents for small-scale lending. Three
operational departments in the head office (agroindustries, cooperative sector
and State sector) serve enterprises of national importance. Four BAFI bran-
ches operate in the two project areas; for Mostistea, one each in Ilfov and
Ialomita judets and for Calmatui, one each in Buzau and Braila judets.
1/   Additional details and BAFI's organization chart are shown in the Project
Implementation File.



- 16 -
H. Investment Financing
2.27      Investment projects are planned at the farm level (IAS and CAP) on
the basis of guidelines and indicators issued by judet agricultural organiza-
tions within the framework of the national plan. Tentative plans then move
through a system of reviews, aggregations, adjustments, and clearances up
through the Grand National Assembly after whose approval they are enacted into
law. Once a project is included in the annual plan, the CAP or IAS prepares a
technical and financial proposal with the help of staff from BAFI and the con-
cerned General Directorate of Agriculture. This proposal is normally backed
up by detailed studies and designs made by relevant specialized institutes.
After the proposal is approved by the competent authority, it is reviewed by
BAFI, revised if necessary, and a decision to finance the project is taken.
2.28      Investments in CAPs are financed from the Development Fund (see para
3.37) and from BAFI loans. The Fund may finance up to 30% of the costs and
the BAFI loans up to 95%, depending on the project, the financial status of
the cooperative, and similar criteria. Investments in Intercooperative
Economic Associations (ICAs) are financed by CAPs.
2.29      Once a project has been appraised, the Branch Council of BAFI
approves the amount and term of the loan. Following disbursement the repay-
ment terms are established: they may be in equal installments or in declin-
ing or ascending amounts depending on the nature of the loan. Each January
the President and Council of the CAP establishes the month in which the loan
installment will be repaid. Loan repayment terms vary, generally matching the
expected economic lives of the assets being financed 1/. Periods for typical
loans are: vineyard or orchard, 10 years including 4 years grace; feedmill,
12 years including 2 years grace; dairy unit, 20 years including 3 years
grace; on-farm irrigation equipment; 8 years including 3 years of grace;
on-farm buried irrigation pipe network, 25 years including 5 years of grace.
Current interest rates on investment loans to CAPs amount to 3% including
interest during construction, with penalty rates of 5%.
2.30      Currently few investment loans are made to IASs except for small
mechanization and some minor investments 2/. Most long-term IAS investments,
as well as short-term capital requirements, are financed from equity from the
State budget, funds for which are channelled through BAFI. In the case of
credit financing, payments are made from benefits, or where no benefits occur,
1/   Generally, short-term loan maturities match the expected realization of
revenues from the production activities being financed with a maximum
repayment of 12 months.
2/   Investment lending to State enterprises started on a very limited scale
under the "Small Mechanization Program", expanded to a regional basis
under early Bank-financed projects (Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit
Project and Rasova-Vederoasa Project), and extended to sub-sectoral
coverage under the IBRD-financed Pig Production and Processing I Project.



l / -
from the IASs' own funds.  The financing plan establishes repayment on a
quarterly basis and the schedule is monitored by a BAFI loan officer. Interest
rates on investment loans to IASs, higher than for CAPs, range from 2% during
construction to 4% thereafter; the penalty rate on delayed payment ranges up
to 6%. Maximum repayment periods are ten years after start of operations. In
future the IAS system will change. The portion of benefits currently paid
into the Consolidation Fund 1/ will remain unchanged, but the proportion of
benefits channelled into the State budget and own funds will shift signifi-
cantly with the major share going into own funds. Investments will therefore
be mainly financed from IASs' own funds and also increasingly through credit
financing by BAFI. The trend toward more internal generation of resources
and debt financing reflects a policy decision to require greater financial
discipline of State enterprises.
2.31      Interest rates play little or no resource allocative role in the
country because they are "taxes-on" rather than "prices-of" capital.  Orer the
medium term there appears to be no intention of changing interest rates, which
are already higher than in other socialist countries. There is, however, some
indication that interest rates are beginning to be used to a limited extent as
an allocative tool: for undisbursed funds interest rates may be decreased in
favor of CAPs, penalty rates for CAPs may also decrease, and for loans to
enterprises needing to borrow due to poor management, interest rates may be
increased by 2 to 3%. These measures are in line with a shift in preference
in allocating funds from IASs to CAPs (para. 1.05).
I. Marketing
2.32      Organization and Management.  Marketing of agricultural products in
Romania is entrusted to State owned and operated marketing Centrals. These
Centrals were established in the late 1960's to assist MAIA in the procure-
ment, grading, processing, storage and distribution of agricultural products.
Unlike other departments of the Ministry, however, the Centrals are inde-
pendent economic units with separate but coordinated plans, budgets, and
accounts. Currently, there are 13 Centrals which specialize in marketing
specific commodities such as cereals, vegetables and fruits, sugar, meat,
milk, etc. With the exception of the Central for Sugar, each Central has
its headquarters in Bucharest and an enterprise in each of the country's 39
judets. The enterprises are the executing agencies of the Centrals which
organize the collection, transport, and delivery of farm products. The
Central for Sugar is organized differently from the others in that, instead
of having district enterprises and collection centers, it owns and operates
17 sugar factories.  The factories procure, transport, and process the raw
materials and distribute the final products.
1/   Normally about 10% of the net profits of an IAS is credited to a Con-
solidation Fund used to finance minor on-farm investments on any enter-
prise under MAIA; 25% of profits in excess of planned profits are also
allocated to the Consolidation Fund.



- 18 -
2.33      Normally, each Central is headed by a director general who reports
directly to the concerned Deputy Minister. He is assisted by directors of
commerce/marketing, economics/accounting, and technical matters. The composi-
tion of each district enterprise's administrative personnel is similar to that
of the Central: its staff usually includes a chief engineer, a marketing
specialist, and an economist or accountant.
2.34      The enterprises and their sub-units are well equipped to facilitate
smooth flow of products without excessive losses. Storage losses of well dried
grains are estimated at about 2% but are higher for perishable commodities.
The number of collection centers in a given region and the market facilities
available to them vary depending on the mix and volume of commodities handled.
Care is taken to allocate collection centers among different localities and to
provide them with adequate supplies in accordance with planned production of
commodities.
2.35      Products from individually-owned plots and surplus CAP production,
i.e. production exceeding quotas contracted to the Centrals, are marketed
through peasant free markets and Agro-cooperatives. Agro-cooperatives are
marketing cooperatives formed and operated by the CAPs. Both channels are
under the jurisdiction of the local People's Councils and handle mainly
vegetables and fruits (less than 5% of total output marketed) and also live
chickens and dairy products to some extent. These channels should be viewed
as supplementing rather than competing with the marketing Centrals.
2.36      Procurement.  All procurement and sales between the marketing enter-
prises (or Centrals) and production units are arranged through standardized,
legally binding contracts, which are signed at the beginning of each year,
after the annual production plan has been fixed. They thus serve as instru-
ments of carrying out the annual plan. These contracts specify types, volumes,
prices and places of delivery. Frequency of deliveries depends on the produc-
tion cycle; livestock products are delivered daily or weekly. The delivery
plans of contracting farms (CAP or IAS) are evaluated periodically, normally
quarterly, based on frequent visits to farms to assess prospective outputs by
experts from the concerned collection centers. This helps the marketing
Centrals in reviewing planned sales for domestic consumption or export.
2.37      CAP and IAS farms are responsible for the delivery of products to
the collection centers but all costs of transportation are paid by the
Centrals. Each farm is expected to provide its own packaging materials; the
collecting centers reimburse the IAS farms for such materials but not the CAP
farm, which is allowed to take back the packing materials after delivery.
2.38      Distribution.  Normally, the collection centers distribute the
products to different outlets in accordance with the State plan. These out-
lets consist of the export markets, the domestic food processing industry,
and the retail markets which are either owned and operated by the marketing
Centrals or in some cases by the Ministry of Internal Trade. Distribution of
feed to the livestock sub-sector is also their responsibility. All seeds
grown by IASs are brought by a special Central. CAPs keep seed produced for



- 19 -
cereals to meet their own requirements, but turn over sunflower, bean and
soybean seeds to State enterprises
2.39      Currently, most marketing Centrals are responsible for the physical
handling of commodities for export, and a few export through other special-
ized agencies of MAIA such as FRUITEXPORT, which specializes in export of
fruits and vegetables. However, iclentification of international market
prospects, negotiating sales agreements, and planning and fulfilling inter-
national deliveries are the responsibilities of the Ministry's export orga-
nization (AGROEXPORT), which operates in collaboration with the Ministry of
Foreign Trade.
2.40      All production plans in Romania are coordinated with expected
product use and its distribution. Since prices are fixed by law and play
little or no role in allocation of outputs, performance of agencies marketing
domestically is limited to efficient physical handling and distribution of
commodities in accordance with the State plan. The Centrals, enterprises, and
collection centers are well staffed and organized, and are provided with the
necessary facilities to allow them to perform their functions properly. They
are revenue earning entities whose operating costs, retained "profit" margins,
and contribution to the State budget are fixed in accordance with established
Government guidelines. The marketing margins of the collection centers amount
to about 10% to 15% of purchase prices but this could vary according to the
complexity of processing involved.
Marketing and Storage Processing Capacities in the Project Area
2.41      Incremental project output would be handled by the appropriate
marketing Centrals described above through their enterprises and collection
centers in the project area. Storage and processing capacities in the area
are planned in accordance with the Government policy on promoting integrated
agricultural development and implemented based on the Five-Year Planning
cycle. As the Project Implementation File shows in detail, processing and
storage capacities in the project areas are adequate to accommodate incre-
mental production from the project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Olbjectives
3.01      The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize
crop production in a gross area of 225,470 ha and to raise crop production and
labor productivity through construction of irrigation and drainage facilities
and soil reclamation.



- 20 -
B. Detailed Features
3.02      General.  The project consists of two components - Mostistea
(158,540 ha), and Calmatui (66,930 ha); the former is an irrigation project
with necessary drainage works, while in the latter component emphasis is on
drainage and soil reclamation with only 23,980 ha being provided with irriga-
tion facilities. The project works would consist of:
Mostistea Project
(i)  widening of the existing supply canal from the Danube and
extension of existing floating pumping station to lift water
into the existing lake upstream of the Iezer Dam;
(ii)  four low storage dams on the Mostistea River upstream of the
lezer Dam and four floating pumping stations at the foot of
these dams to lift water into these storages;
(iii)  eight fixed pumping stations to lift water from the storage
lakes into the main irrigation canals including the Hagiesti-
Movilita Supply Canal, and six repumping stations on canals;
(iv)  twelve irrigation systems consisting of main and distribution
canals to serve a gross area of 158,540 ha (155,871 ha net);
(v)  surface drainage works to serve an area of 82,683 ha;
(vi)  tile drainage works for an area of 4,238 ha;
(vii)  soil erosion control. works to protect an area of 13,344 ha;
(viii)  equipment for operat:ion and maintenance of irrigation and
drainage works; and
(ix)  farm machinery to intensify agriculture on the area to be
irrigated by the project.
Brief description of these works is given in paras 3.03 to 3.16. Major
irrigation and drainage systems are illustrated in Map IBRD 13933.
Calmatui Project
(i)  irrigation works to serve a gross area of 23,980 ha (23,000
ha net);
(ii)  surface drainage works to serve a gross area of 66,930 ha
(64,527 ha net);
(iii)  subsurface drainage works for a net area of 14,455 ha;



- 21 -
(iv) reclamation of saline soils covering a net area of 9,200 ha;
(v) equipment for operation and maintenance of irrigation and
drainage works; and
(vi) farm machinery to intensify agriculture.
Brief description of these works is given in paras 3.17 to 3.23. Major irri-
gation and drainage systems are illustrated on Map IBRD 13934.
C. Description of Project Works
Mostistea Project
3.03      Widening of Existing Supply Canal.  The existing canal which sup-
plies water from the Danube River to Mostistea Irrigation Project, Phase I
(80,850 ha) would be widened under the project. This canal is 9 km long and
its capacity would be increased froim 56.4 m3/sec to 148.0 m3/sec by dredging
its bed from a width of 50 m to 80 m. It terminates at the foot of the exist-
ing Iezer Dam from where an existing floating pumping station lifts water into
the Iezer Lake.
3.04      Floating Pumping Stations and Pumped Storages.  The existing capacity
of the pumping station at the foot of the Iezer Dam would be increased by 91.6
m3/sec. In addition 4 low pumped storages would be constructed under the
project, and at the foot of each of these dams, floating pumping stations
would be installed to create a chain of pumped storages upstream of the Iezer
Lake. Data on these works is summarized below:
Capacity
Live     Gross Area      of       Maximum
Pumped Storage                         Capacity       Served     Station    Lift
(Mm3)       (ha)       (m3/sec)   (m)
lezer (Existing)                           126          /1          148.0    11.5
Frasinet                                    92        63,540        114.0    10.0
Gurbanesti                                  51        19,427         68.4    10.0
Fundulea                                    30         5,962         57.0    10.0
Mariuta                                     19        69,611         53.0    10.0
Total                                               158,540
/1   Serves 158,540 ha of this project, as well as 80,850 ha of existing
Phase I of Mostistea Project.
These pumped storages would permit utilization of the annual flow of the
Mostistea River (60 Mm3 to 90 Mm3) and are designed to ensure a flexible



- 22 -
operation enabling peak irrigation demand to be met with a relatively lower
capacity of the floating pumping stations and to reduce the lift at the fixed
pumping stations.
3.05      Main Pumping Stations.  A total of 13 fixed pumping stations would
be constructed under the project. Of these 7 stations would lift water from
the pumped storages into 7 canal systems (4 on the left and 3 on the right
bank of the Mostistea River); one would lift water from the Mariuta Lake into
the Hagiesti-Movilita Supply Canal; and the other six would be repumping sta-
tions and would be located on various canals. The capacity of these stations
would vary from 53.0 m3/sec (Hagiesti) to 2.3 m3/sec, the lifts would range
from 42.75 m to 3.25 m and the installed capacity would be from 18,000 kw to
400 kw. Their installed capaci.ty would total to about 44,800 kw and, in an
average year, their energy consumption would be about 64 million kwh.
3.06      Irrigation Systems.  Of the 12 systems, seven would be supplied with
irrigation water directly by pumping from pumped storages, and the other five
would be fed by the 12 km long Hagiesti-Movilita Canal. Of these five, three
would receive water by repumping from this Canal, and the other two would be
fed by gravity. The capacity of main canals of these systems would vary from
31.5 m3/sec to 2.4 m3/sec. Each system would have distribution channels lead-
ing the water to pressure pumping stations. Total length of canals would be
about 164 km; all canals would be lined with concrete in order to economise
on the canal cross-sections and to reduce losses of valuable pumped water
through seepage. A total of 2:30 structures (gated regulators, bridges, escape
weirs etc) would be constructed on these canal systems.
3.07      The canals and pumping stations would be designed for 24 hour opera-
tion during the period of peak demand (July). Operation of the canal system
would be automated by the use of hydraulically operated constant downstream
water level gates at the regulating structures. The quantum of water flow
would be adjusted daily or as required according to the demand of the water
users (IASs and CAPs). Some canal reaches would have capacity to store flow
variations that may result from differences between supply and demand. At
suitable locations, escape weirs would be provided to spill surplus water into
the nearby drains, natural valleys or the downstream canals bypassing the
automated gated regulators.
3.08      Pressure Pumping Stations.  A total of 51 fixed pressure pumping
stations would be constructed to serve about 84,800 ha. The capacity of these
stations would vary from 2.35 m3/sec to 0.64 m3/sec and the maximum pressure
imparted at these stations wouLd range from 80 m to 40 m. Their installed
capacity would total to about 63,400 kw. The remaining 73,740 ha would be
served by water pressurized by 691 mobile pumps (electric) of smaller size
(100 to 60 1/sec). The aggregate capacity of these pumps would be about
78,900 kw. Total energy consumption of these fixed and mobile stations is
estimated at about 146 million kwh.
3.09      Power Supply Works.  About 552 Km of 20 KV power lines would be con-
structed to supply energy to the pumping stations. Transformer substations
would be constructed at the loc-ations of main irrigation and drainage pumping



- 23 -
stations. Power to mobile electric pumps would be supplied through pole
mounted transformers.
3.10      Pipe Distribution Networks.  A typical pipe distribution network
would consist of a buried main pipeline running parallel to the supply canal,
and 16 buried distribution pipes -- 8 on either side of the main pipeline
irrigating about 123 ha (612 m x 2,016 m). The size of the main pipe would
vary from 400 mm diameter to 1,000 mm and would be of precast reinforced
concrete. The distribution pipes would vary from 100 mm to 350 mm and would
be of asbestos cement and PVC.  A typical area served by one fixed pressure
pumping station would consist of 16 such plots (1,970 ha).  Mobile electric
pumps would be grouped into units of 2 to 3 pumps, each unit serving about 200
to 250 ha. Two buried distribution pipes, one on either side of the canal,
would irrigate an area of about 100 ha to 125 ha.  These pipes would be either
of asbestos cement or PVC, and their size would vary from 150 mm to 250 mnm.
3.11      Sprinkler Irrigation.  A total area of 136,565 ha in the project
would be served by sprinkler irrigation. About 80% of this area i.e.,
109,252 ha would be served with self-propelled mobile equipment and longi-
tudinally towed installations. The remaining area of 27,313 ha (20%) wolald
have manually handled sprinkler equipment. Distribution pipes (antennae)
would be spaced 612 m apart and their length would vary from 1,872 to 2,016
M.  Hydrants would be located on the antennae at a spacing of 72 m.  Each of
these antennae would have 28 hydrants; each would supply water to 6 laterals
(3 on either side) by rotation, but only 2 would be served simultaneously.
Sprinklers would be spaced at 18 m intervals, each to serve an area of 18 x
24 m. The laterals would be of aluminum with a diameter of 10 cm. The
sprinkler nozzle would have a diameter of 7 mm, and operating at a pressure
of 3 atmospheres would be able to supply water at an hourly intensity of
about 6.6 mm. The lateral would be in one position for 11 hours with a
return period of 14 days.
3.12      Furrow Irrigation.  About 21,975 ha of the project area would be
served by furrows with a network similar to that for sprinkler irrigation,
but the hydrants spaced 216 m apart. Each hydrant would feed 16 to 20 furrows
through portable aluminum and mobile flexible butyl rubber pipes with outlets
at furrow spacings. Aluminum pipes would be used for 75% of the furrow irri-
gation area and butyl rubber pipes for the remaining area. Length of furrows
would be about 200 m and maximum discharge would not exceed 2.0 1/sec.
Drainage and Soil Erosion Control Works
3.13      Surface Drainage Networks.  Surface drainage would be required over
82,638 ha divided into 79 hydrological basins. Main drains from 65 basins
would outfall by gravity into the Mostistea and other valleys and 14 basins
would discharge into irrigation canals through pumping. The drains would be
designed to remove in 2 days the runoff resulting from a storm precipitation
of about 100 mm in 24 hours in the month of August, with a 1% probablity.
The specific design discharge has been estimated at 0.6 I/sec/ha. The total
length of the surface drains would be about 941 km. A total number of 1,357
small structures would be constructed on these drains.



3.14      Drainage Pumping Stations.  Twenty small pumping stations with
capacities less than 1.0 m3/sec would be provided to pump out water from
depressions into drains, and to pump water from drains into irrigation canals
where gravity outfall is not available.
3.15      Sub-Surface Drainage Network.  The present depth to water table,
mostly to the north of the Bucharest-Constanta railway line, is less than
2.0 m, and after the introduction of irrigation the water table will tend to
rise further with adverse effect on crop production. The project accordingly
provides for the construction of subsurface tile drains on an area of 4,238
ha. Tile drains would be designed for a specific flow of 0.6 1/sec/ha; made
of ceramic pipe 70 mm in diameter and would be laid at a median depth of 1.5
m.  The individual drains would be 200 m long with a longitudinal slope of
1.5 to 2 per thousand and would be spaced 40 m apart. The tiles would have
a filter envelope of lOOm consisting of sorted gravel of 2 to 15 mm size.
3.16      Soil Erosion Control Works.  Soil erosion control measures would
be required for an area of 13,344 ha having slopes exceeding 3%. Improved
natural pastures through reseeding and/or superseeding would be provided for
2,910 ha; 126 unproductive hectares would receive tree plantations, and 6,747
hectares would be land levelled. The remaining 3,561 hectares would be ter-
raced, partly protected by stone.
Calmatui Project
Irrigation Works
3.17      Pumping Stations.  The existing floating pumping station built at
km. 221 of the River Danube, for Viziru Terrace system and the Bank financed
Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation system, would be extended to provide additional
18 m3/sec, through 2 pumping units each having a capacity of 9 m3/sec.  A
total of seven fixed pumping staitions would lift irrigation supplies within
the canal network. These pumping stations would lift water from the flood
plain to the terrace, and enable the delivery canals to convey the irrigation
water against the natural slope of the project area.
3.18      Canal System.  The total canal length serving 23,000 ha would be
98.8 km, of which only 39.4 km would be new construction. Existing canals
31.5 km long, would be utilized for conveying additional water supplies with-
out any supplementary works. In a length of 9.0 km, major remodelling works
consisting of widening and deepe-ning of the canal and reconstruction of the
concrete lining would be carried out, while the remaining 18.9 km would
require only raising of concrete lining by 0.5 m. All canals would be lined
with concrete. The total number of structures of various sizes would be 119.
The canal system would consist of Viziru Terrace subsystem, which would serve
the area of 12,800 ha located on the left side of Calmatui River requiring a
flow of 10.2 m3/sec; and Ialomita-Calmatui subsystem which would serve an area
of 10,200 ha located on the right side of Calmatui River requiring a flow of
7.8 m3/sec. The canal network and the pumping stations would be designed for
24 hour operation during the period of peak demand (July). Regulation of sup-
plies within the canal network would be automated through constant downstream



- 25 -
water level gates.  By providing a large freeboard of about 1.0 m, sufficient
storage capacity would be available in the various reaches of the canals to
cater for hourly fluctuations of demand for irrigation water. Provision would
be made at siY places in the canal system to spill surplus water into various
drainages to safeguard the canal system against possible accidents.
3.19       Sprinkler Irrigation.  The project area would be divided into eleven
blocks of rectangular shape designed for optimum mechanization and each block
would be served by one pressure pumping station. The underground pipe network
would be similar to that in the Mostistea subproject, except that the laterals
would remain in one position from 20 to 22 hours per day and the return time
would be about 12 to 13 days.
Drainage and Soil Reclamation Works
3.20      Widening and Deepening of Calmatui River.  The Calmatui River
traverses the entire length of the project area from west to east and is its
main drainage channel. Its present capacity is badly curtailed by meanders
and siltation and it cannot cope with the runoff generated by heavy precipita-
tion. The spillage from Calmatui directly affects about 18,500 ha of the
project area and 2,000 inhabitants. Widening and deepening of the river
channel is already under implementation by the Government of Romania, through
its own resources. Completion of this work by December 31, 1981 is essential
for the success of the Calmatui Project (see para 6.01(ii)).
3.21       Surface D)rainage.  Surface drainage works would be required to serve
a gross area of 66,930 ha (64,527 ha net). According to its topography the
area is divided into 34 hydrological basins; 16 on the left bank of Calmatui
river and 18 on its right bank. Each basin would be served by one main drain
which would collect water from the afferent secondary drains. All 34 main
drains would have gravity outfall. The surface drains would be designed to
remove in two days the runoff resulting from a storm precipitation of 1% prob-
ability. It is estimated that in about 150 km length of the surface drains,
the side slopes may present problems of instability due to the presence of
salts in the soil. These slopes may also be susceptible to damage due to
variations in water level. After excavation, the side slopes of drains in
these reaches will firstly be turfed above the average level of water and the
behavior watched for one or two years. If necessary, the side slopes would
then be protected by stone backed by a filter layer. The length of main
drains would be about 308 Km and that of the secondary drains about 835 Km.
There would be about 405 structures on the drains, which would consist of
bridges, culverts, underpassages, drop and outfall structures.
3.22      Tile Drainage.  The irriga[ted area of 23,000 ha includes 9,200 ha of
saline soils and 5,255 ha of potentially saline soils. Tile drains for the
saline area would be installed simultaneously with other project works. In
the potentially saline areas, the effect of other facilities i.e, irrigation,
surface drainage, and widening and deepening of the Calmatui River would be
observed for a year or so before installation of tile drains. The tile drains



- 26 -
would be designed for a specific flow of 1.0 I/sec/ha and hydraulic conduc-
tivity of 0.5 m/day. The tiles would have a filter envelope of 100 mm con-
sisting of sorted gravel 2 to 15 mm in diameter. All the tile drains would
discharge by gravity into the secondary open surface drains.
3.23      Reclamation of Saline Soils.  The Calmatui project area includes
9,200 ha of saline and saline/alkali soils located entirely in the irrigated
area of 23,000 ha. The degree of salinization/alkalization ranges from medium
saline-alkali (1,500 ha) to strongly saline-alkali (7,700 ha). The soils in
5,400 ha are of medium texture and in the other 3,800 ha, of fine texture.
The reclamation of this area would require levelling, deep ripping/mole
ploughing, deep ploughing without turning, application of chemical amendments,
and leaching. Land levelling over the entire area would be done at the start
of the reclamation operations and would require earthmoving at an average
rate of about 430 m3/ha. Deep ripping/mole ploughing would be done in the
first year only after levelling, in a direction perpendicular to the tile
drains. Deep ploughing, without turning, would be done in the second and
third years of reclamation operations in the medium saline areas and in the
second, third and fourth years in the balance areas. Chemical amendments
(phosphogypsum) would be applied before leaching. Leaching would be mostly
done in the cold weather when surplus water would be available. For effi-
cient leaching, the saline land would be divided into plots of about 0.5 ha
by earth dykes, 0.3 m high with 1:1 side slopes and 0.4 m top width. It has
been estimated that about 50% of these dykes would have to be remade annually.
To prevent resalinization, about 20% of the reclaimed area would have to be
leached every year.
Equipment
3.24      Farm Machinery.  About 1,000 tractors and 630 harvesters and some
cultivation and transportation equipment would be provided to SMAs for CAPs
and to IASs under the project to cultivate, harvest, and transport the
increased production following introduction of irrigation (See Annex 3
Table 1).
3.25      Operation and Maintenance Equipment.  The equipment listed in Annex
3 Table 2 is considered necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
project and would be provided under the project.
D. Water Requirements, Availability and Quality
3.26   Water Requirements
(i)  Mostistea.  Net water requirements for project crops were
estimated at 3,319 m3/ha; the highest monthly net demand
of 160 m3/ha would occur in July (Annex 4 Table 1). The
overall system efficiency has been computed at 71%. Cross
water requirements at source would be 4,675 m3/ha which



- 27 -
would amount to a total demand of 729 Mm3 during the cropping
season, and 227 Mm3 (31%) in July. About 654 Mm3 (90%) of
the total demand would be met from the Danube River through
pumping into the chain of plumped storages in the Mostistea
Valley and the remaining would be supplied from the Mostistea
River flows.
(ii)  Calmatui.  Net water requirements were estimated at 4,476
mm3/ha, with the highest net monthly demand in July of 1,350
m3/ha (Annex 4 Table 2). As the entire area would be served
by sprinklers the efficiency of the system has been computed
at 73%. Gross water requirements would be 6,132 m3/ha which
would amount to 141 Mm3 during the cropping season. The entire
requirements would be met from the Danube River by pumping
directly into the system.
3.27      Water Availability
(i)  Mostistea.  About 90% of the project's water supply would be
derived from the Danube, which drains about 814,000 Km2 in
central and eastern Europe and is a reliable source of water.
It reaches its peak flow between mid-March and mid-June cor-
responding to the snow melt period. Minimum flows occur
between the end of August and November. The peak water
requirement for Mostistea Project would occur in the month
of July and, in a dry year, is estimated to be about 109.8
m3/sec. In a typical dry year the lowest discharge in the
Danube during July is about 4,500 m3/sec. The peak withdrawal
would thus be only about 2.5% of the Danube flow in July.  The
demand in September, when the river is at its lowest flow of
about 2,000 m3/sec, would be about 19.9 m3/sec which is less
than 1% of the Danube flow. Water supply for the project's
irrigation system, therefore, is assured. It will also not
affect adversely the requirements of international navigation.
(ii)  Calmatui.  The project would derive its water supply from the
Cremenea Branch of the Danube. The peak water requirement
would occur in the month of July and, in a dry year, is esti-
mated to be about 18 m3/sec. This is only about 1.1% of the
minimum flow of the Cremenea Branch, and 0.4% of the lowest
discharge in the Danue River. The total peak withdrawals at
this point from the Danube River, including the requirments
for the Bank-financed Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project
(Loan 1368-RO), and the Viziru Terrace Irrigation Project
would amount to 156 m3/sec, which is equivalent to about
3.5% and 9.8% of the minimum discharge in the Danube and its
Cremenea Branch respectively. Water supply for the project's
irrigation system is thus assured without detriment to the
requirements of navigation.



- 28 -
3.28      Water Quality for Irrigation.  Water provided by the Mostistea River
is of good quality and presently about 10,000 ha are already irrigated with
this source. Danube water is also of good quality for irrigation and is
already used in large Bank-financed and other irrigation projects. Analysis
of samples of Danube water collected in Oltenitza, shows that it contains an
average of 163 mg/l of total suspended solids (varying from 128 to 198 mg/I),
and has an average ph of 6.7 (varying from 6.4 to 6.9). Both waters are clas-
sified as C S2 Category.
E. Water Rights
3.29      There is no international agreement among the Danube River riparian
states for the use of its water for irrigation but a convention exists for
development of the River for mutual benefits, and for protection of navigation
and water quality. The International Water Commission for the Danube River,
of which Romania is a member, is mainly concerned with schemes which may
interfere with navigation and water quality. The maximum diversion for the
project, in July, would amount to about 2.9% of the minimum river flow in that
month. Even when all of the 2.34 million ha that are potentially irrigable
from the Danube River have been equipped for irrigation, the aggregate diver-
sions from the Danube would not exceed 20% of its flow (1,130 m3/sec) in July;
11% (440 m3/sec) in September and 4% (90 m3/sec) in October. Diversions
for the present and future projects dependent on the Danube River would not
adversely affect the Danube supplies for international navigation. There
is no reason to expect, therefore, that the project would raise issues on the
use of Danube waters, and no agreement of other riparians would be required.
However, as for the previous Bank financed irrigation projects in Romania,
Government has furnished during negotiations a letter of representation to
the Bank setting forth Romania's treaty obligations on the use of Danube
waters and confirming that the project would present no problem on the use of
international waters.
F. Status of Engineering
3.30      The two projects have been studied in detail by the Institute for
Land Reclamation Studies and Design (ISPIF) and the National Water Council
(NWC). Plans for canal alignments, drainage facilities and sprinkler irriga-
tion works have been finalized by ISPIF, while the design of pumps and pumped
storages on Mostistea and widening of Calmatui River has been carried out by
the NWC. The selected alternatives are the most appropriate and economical
and are acceptable to the Bank. Complete detailed design and major drawings
have already been completed by the two agencies while the detailed drawings
would be ready much ahead of construction.



- 29 -
G. Cost Estimates
3.31       The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at Lei 7,364.5 mil-
lion (US$409.2 million). The estimate includes taxes and is based on expected
December 1978 prices. The foreign exchange component which includes both
direct and indirect foreign costs, is estimated at US$117.1 million or 29% of
total cost. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that are pre-
vailing in Romania under the system of regulated prices of materials and
wages.  Cost of equipment and spare parts expected to be procured from  Eoreign
suppliers, has been calculated at the international prices likely to prevail
at the end of 1978 and is estimated at US$25.0 million. Customs duty on
imported materials and equipment which now averages at about 10%, amounts to
Lei 67.7 million (US$3.7 million) andl is included in the cost estimate. Be-
cause detailed engineering has already been carried out, physical contingen-
cies have been provided at 7.5% of irrigation, drainage and reclamation works,
and at 5% of other minor items. Price contingencies on foreign costs are
compounded annually at 6% for equipment and at 7% for civil and other mis-
cellaneous works. Due to near zero inflation in Romania, price contingencies
on local costs are compounded at 1% per annum. Cost estimates are summarized
in the table below; details are in Annex 5 Tables 1 and 2.



- 30 -
Estimated Cost              Estimated Cost   Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total Exchange
----- Lei Million ----    --- US$ Million ---         %
Mostistea Project
Pumping stations
and reservoirs            759.5   343.5  1,103.0    42.2  19.1    61.3    31
Irrigation works         1,430.5   642.6  2,073.1    79.5  35.7   115.2    31
Drainage works              203.0    50.8    253.8    11.3   2.8    14.1    20
Soil reclamation
works                     111.3    19.6    130.9       6.2   1.1      7.3    15
Miscellaneous works         184.5    32.6    217.1    10.2   1.8    12.0    15
Land compensation           616.8      -      616.8    34.3    -       34.3      -
Equipment                   302.9   181.2    484.1    16.8  10.1    26.9    37
Engineering and
administration              277.1    30.8    307.9    15.4   1.7    17.1    10
Base Cost              3,885.6 1,301.1  5,186.7   215.9  72.3   288.2    25
Physcial contingencies    257.0    91.4    348.4    14.3   5.1    19.4    26
Price Contingencies         126.2   319.3    445.5       7.0  17.7    24.7    72
Total Mostistea Project 4,268.8 1,711.8  5,980.6   237.2  95.1   332.3    29
Calmatui Project
Irrigation Works            277.1   124.5    401.6    15.2   7.0    22.2    31
brainage works              306.4    76.1    382.5    17.1   4.1    21.2    20
Reclamation of saline
soil                       90.7    22.7    113.4       5.0   1.3      6.3    20
Miscellaneous works            .4      1.2      7.6      0.4   0.1      0.5    15
Land compensation            22.8    -         22.8      1.3      -     1.3      -
Equipment                   111.0    64.2    175.2       6.2   3.5      9.7    37
Engineering and
administration             78.6     8.7      87.3      4.4   0.5      4.9    10
Base Cost                893.0   297.4  1,190.4    49.6  16.5    66.1    25
Physical Contingencies       61.6    20.4      82.0      3.4   1.2      4.6    25
Price Contingencies          33.4    78.1    111.5       1.9   4.3      6.2    70
Total Calmatui Project  988.0   395.9  1,383.9    54.9  22.0    76.9    29
Total Cost             5,256.8 2,107.7  7,364.5   292.1 117.1   409.2    29



- 31 -
H. Financing
3.32      According to legally established practice (Law #7 of March 29, 1974)
all project investments would be financed from the State budget, but the costs
of buried pipeline, on-farm sprinkler and furrow equipment, and small secondary
open drainage canals serving CAP-owned and IAS lands would be transferred to
the CAPs and IASs. Thus the State budget finances 100% of the total cost of
main canals and drains, all pumping stations, tile drainage and river widening.
First-time levelling, ripping, soil amendment, and leaching works are financed
by the State, but subsequent works of this type are financed by the respective
CAP or IAS. The costs of farm machinery and of annual operation and main-
tenance would also be financed from the State budget.
3.33    The proposed Bank Loan of US$70.0 million, representing about 17% of
total project costs (US$409.2 million) and almost 60% of total foreign
exchange costs (US$117.1 million) would be made to BAFI. The State budget
would contribute about lei 4,800 million (US$266.7 million) or 65% of total
project costs through budgetary allocations to the National Water Council,
the construction enterprises, IASs, and SMAs, for which funds would be
channelled through BAFI. BAFI credits of lei 764 million (US$42.5 million)
to CAPs would contribute about 10% of total costs, with the remaining nearly
8% or lei 540 million (US$30.0 million) contributed from the subborrowers'
(CAP, IAS, SMA) own resources. A summary financing plan, which includes
physical and price contingencies, is shown below:
Subborrowers'    BAFI                             /1
Contributions   Credits   Budgetary Allocations-
LAS   SMA   CAP  to CAPs   IAS   SMA   DIFCA   NWC   Total
-------------------------lei millions---------------------
Mostistea
Irrigation and
Drainage             89    -    240      560    432    -    1,879    -    3,200
Reservoirs             -    -      -       -       -     -        -   2,422  2,422
Farm Machinery        20   50      -       -       87   201       -     -       358
Subtotal             109   50    240      560    519   201   1,879  2,422  5,980
%                    1.8  0.8    4.0    _9.4    8.7   3.4    31.4   40.5    100
Calmatui
Irrigation and
Drainage             14    -      86     204      75    -       832    -    1,211
Farm Machinery        21   20       -      -       93   39        -     -      173
Subtotal              35   20      86     204    168   39       832    -    1,384
%                    2.5  1.5    6.2    14.7   12.2  2.8       60.1    -       100
Total                144   70    326      764    687  240    2,711  2,422  7,364
US$ millions         8.0  3.9   18.1    42.5   38.2 13.3    150.6  134.6  409.2
%                    2.0  1.0    4.4    10.4    9.3  3.2       36.8   32.9    100
/1   Includes IBRD loan amount.



- 32 -
The proposed Bank Loan would be made for a term of 15 years, including 3 years
of grace. The Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk.
I. Cost Recovery
3.34      CAP Loans and Farm Machinery.  Of the costs to be transferred to
CAPs, about 30% would come from their own funds with the remaining 70% fi-
nanced through BAFI loans. Theses loans would be recovered in accordance with
standard on-lending terms derived from established amortization practices.
For on-farm buried pipelines, the loans would be for 25 years including 5
years grace, and for on-farm irrigation equipment, 8 years including 3 years
grace. The interest rate would be 3% including interest during construction,
with penalty rates of up to 5%. The cost of farm machinery would be recovered
by the State through unit rates paid by CAPs to SMAs for mechanization ser-
vices and through IAS contributions to the Depreciation Fund.
3.35      Investment and Operation and Maintenance Costs.  The annual O&M
costs for the whole project are estimated at about lei 261.4 million (US$14.5
million) or an average of lei 1,186 per ha. The present value of investment
and O&M costs discounted over 40 years at 10% is lei 6,158.3 million (US$342.1
million).
3.36      Project costs would be recovered through both direct and indirect
mechanisms. The direct mechanism consists of water charges of three types
levied on all CAPs and IASs using the irrigation water. The types of charges
are (1) a variable charge of Lei 18 (US$1.00) per 1,000 m3 levied on the vol-
ume of water used, (2) a fixed aLnnual charge per hectare levied on the basis
of crops grown, and (3) fixed chLarge per hectare levied on the basis of the
type of irrigation method used. The first two types of charges are applied
uniformly to CAPs and IASs alike, while the third type is higher for IASs.
For drainage works, there is also a provision for recovering protection costs.
Based on the proposed project cropping pattern, the estimated annual volume of
irrigation water needed, the distribution of the project area between CAPs
(Mostistea 81%, Calmatui 74%) and IASs (Mostistea 15%, Calmatui 22%), and the
type of irrigation method, the average annual water charge from all users is
estimated at an equivalent of about Lei 350 (US$19.44) per hectare. These
water charges would yield an annual revenue through the direct recovery
mechanisms of about Lei 62.5 million (US$3.5 million) beginning with year 6
of the project. The present value of this recovery over an assumed project
life of 40 years in constant prices and at a discount rate of 10% is estimated
at about Lei 507.5 million (US$28.2 million), or a recovery of about 25% of
the O&M costs. The resulting cost recovery would be about 8%.
3.37      This apparently low direct cost recovery is, however, supplemented
by various indirect cost recovery mechanisms. The State recovers project
costs from IASs through the 50% of annual net profits credited to the State
budget, through payments to the Depreciation Fund which are used to finance
future investments, and through payments of 10% of net profits to the Consoli-
dation Fund which are used to finance minor on-farm investments. Similarly,
costs are recovered indirectly by the State from CAPs through the compulsory
portion of net income paid into the Development Fund for future investments.



- 33 -
The development fund is a compulsory saving mechanism, under which funds are
set aside for future investments including payments for certain services,
for repayment of long-term investment credits, and for contributions to social
funds of ICAs and other institutions, with which CAP is associated. At least
18% of the net income of CAP must be allocated to the development Fund. The
fund is deposited with BAFI and earns 2% interest. In addition, any profits
made by the State from the purchase of tradeable commodities at administered
low farmgate prices and subsequent export at higher world prices, and general
linkage benefits to the economy resulting from incremental project output are
also indirect cost recovery mechanisms. While difficult to quantify, the
revenues accruing to the State from these indirect cost recovery mechanisms
plus the direct water charges could result in a potential direct and indirect
Cost Recovery of 100% or more, thus enabling the State to undertake similar
investments in the future.
3.38      The price of irrigation water in the socio-economic context of
Romania serves neither a resource allocative nor income distributive function.
The low level of water charges is unlikely to cause wastefulness in applying
irrigation water, because decisions on the volume and timing of water applica-
tions are made by State agencies (CELIF through its branch offices) according
to guidelines furnished by relevant technical institutes. A forecasting group
establishes water requirements via a computer program and weekly meetings on
water applications are required by law. The low level of prices for water is
in line with generally low prices of inputs and outputs and could be modified
only in conjunction with an overall revision of agricultural price levels due
to the close interrelationship among the various prices. Since incremen,tal
farm income resulting from the project would not directly affect incomes of
CAP members or IAS employees, the low direct water charge would not mean a
correspondingly higher income to the users and thus would not affect income
distribution. For these reasons, an increase in water charges is neither
necessary nor recommended.
J. Implementation Schedule
3.39    The project works would be completed in 7 years (1979 to 1985) aLnd in
accordance with the implementation schedules (Charts 1 and 2).  Development
of irrigation would commence in 1980. An estimated Schedule of Expenditure
is given in Annex 6 Tables 1 and 2 and is summarized below.
Calendar Year                    1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
--------------US$ millio
Mostistea
Annual Estimated Expenditure   49.0  62.2  48.0  51.5  64.5  57.1    -
Cumulative Expenditure           49.0 111.2 159.2 210.7 275.2 332.3    -
Calmatui
Annual Estimated Expenditure       -    1.4  28.2  31.2   9.3   4.3   2.5
Cumulative Expenditure             -    1.4  29.6  60.8  70.1  74.4  76.9
Mostistea and Calmatui
Annual Estimated Expenditure   49.0  63.6  76.2  82.7  73.8  61.4   2.5
Cumulative Expenditure           49.0 112.6 188.8 271.5 345.3 406.7 409.2



- 34 -
K. Procurement
3.40      In Romania, all irrigation works are constructed by Romanian Con-
struction Trusts, which are experienced and familiar with local conditions,
methods and regulations. This practice is acceptable to the Bank as, because
of regulated wages and prices of materials, the Romanian construction costs
are likely to be less than those which might be bid by international contrac-
tors. Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank Loan
(US$70.0 million), would be procured according to ICB under the proposed loan
and it has been agreed during negotiations that items costing US$70.0 million
including contingencies (Annex 3 Table 3 and para 6.01(iii)) would be procured
following international advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March
1977". Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. The application of the preference
has not affected so far the outcome of bidding on previous irrigation projects,
and is not expected to significantly affect the result of bidding on the
proposed project. It is expected that foreign suppliers would win contracts
estimated to cost about US$25 million for most of the construction equipment
(motor scrapers, excavators, dozers, concrete pumps, and cranes and their
spare parts). Other items to be procured through international competitive
bidding (about US$45.0 million) are available domestically and, based on
experience with previous Bank-financed irrigation projects, it is expected
that the Romanian manufacturers would be successful in bidding for these
items. Cost estimates are based on a conversion rate of US$1 = 18 lei.
The remaining equipment and materials, all domestically produced, would be
procured under Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for disbursement
under the proposed Bank Loan.
L. Disbursements
3.41      The proposed Bank Loan of US$70.0 million, net of taxes, would be
disbursed over an estimated 5 year period as follows:
(a)  Equipment and spare parts    100% of foreign expenditures
(US$61.4 million)             and 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory
(b)  Materials                      100% of foreign expenditure and
(US$5.6 million)              100% of local expenditures ex-
factory
(c) Unallocated
(US$3.0 million)
An estimated schedule of disbursements by Bank fiscal year and quarter is
shown in Annex 7. Disbursements under the proposed Bank Loan would be made
against standard documentation.



- '35-
M. Environment and Health
3.42      The project area is free of endemic diseases like malaria and
bilharzia. The project would neither adversely affect the environment nor
the public health. Construction of irrigation works, which consist of pumped
storages, canals with fluctuating supplies and piped distribution networ]ks,
would not promote mosquito breeding or spread of malaria.  Drainage of the
project area would promote healthier conditions.
N. The Role of Women
3.43      The demographic structure by sex in urban and rural areas for all of
Romania and for the districts (judets) in which the proposed projects are
located, is shown below:
URBAN AND RURAL POPULATIONS BY SEX
Ilfov          Braila           Buzau
Romania      %   District   %  District    %   District   %
(Mostistea)              (Calmatui)
--------------- thousands of inhabitants -----------------
URBAN POPULATION   10,236.8   47.5   118.2   15.1   205.7   54.4   126.4   24.9
of which:  male    5,065.0   23.5    58.1    7.4   103.1   27.3    62.1   12.2
female  5,171.8   24.0    60.1    7.7   102.6   27.2    64.3   12.6
RURAL POPULATION   11,322.6   52.5   662.2   84.9   172.2   45.6   382.0   75.1
of which:  male    5,561.8   25.8   :328.4   42.1    86.4   22.9   186.1   36.6
female  5,760.8   26.7   333.8   42.8    85.8   22.7   195.9   38.5
TOTAL POPULATION   21,559.4  100.0   780.4  100.0   377.9  100.0   508.4  100.0
of which:  male   10,626.8   49.3  :386.5   49.5   189.5   50.1   248.1   48.8
female 10,932.6   50.7   :393.9   50.5   188.4   49.9   260.3   51.2
Source:  Annual Statistic, 1977 (Preliminary data from census of
January 5, 1977).
The rural populations of the Ilfov ancd Buzau districts are considerably higher
than for the country as a whole, but the proportion of men and women varies
marginally. Women currently represent 36% of the working population as
compared to 27.8% in 1965. Not only has the proportion of working women to
men increased, but also the distribution by profession and sector has changed.
Women now make up 38% of the total population employed in industry as compared
to 32.4% in 1973.



- 36 -
3.44      The active labor force engaged in agriculture and forestry represents
35.9% of the total active labor force. Mainly due to the diversion of males to
other sectors, notably to industry, women constitute the majority of the agri-
cultural labor force and thus play a crucial role in agricultural production.
The percentage of women actively engaged in agriculture may range as high as
80 to 85% in certain communes, particularly in the CAPs, where women make up
the basic labor force nationwide. Three hundred and fifty out of about 4,400
CAPs have women presidents and women hold approximately 4,700 posts as chief
engineer/agronomists and 26,000 positions as chiefs of teams in the CAPs.
There is an awareness of the importance of women in achieving agricultural
production targets and of the need to train and integrate more women into
positions of greater responsibility. The legal basis for equal opportunities
exists. Certain services, such as day care centers, to facilitate the partici-
pation of women in production are in place, although there is a need to
improve and increase such services.
3.45      There is no component in either project specifically designed to
differentiate between beneficiaries by sex. From field observations and
interviews it is clear that in the project area, where CAPs predominate,
women already do and will continue to play a major role in agriculture due
largely to the proximity of the Mostistea area to Bucharest as well as to the
policy of regional industrializat:ion which will draw increasing numbers of men
away from agriculture.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The Borrower.  The Bank of Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
would be the borrower under the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of
Romania. BAFI has the prime responsibility for financing the development of
the agricultural sector.
Implementing Agencies
4.02      The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MAIA).  The responsibility
for planning, construction, operation and maintenance of all irrigation and
related drainage works would rest with MAIA. The specific works entrusted
to MAIA in both the projects, Mostistea and Calmatui, would include Main
Pumping stations, canals, irrigation and drainage networks and tile drains.
The general organization of MAIA and its departments is illustrated in
Chart 3.
4.03      Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction (DIFCA).
The responsibility for planning, design, and construction of project works
would rest with DIFCA which is headed by a Deputy Minister. It is organized
in four directorates each with the following responsibilities:



- 37 -
(i) Construction and Local Development Directorate. Construc-
tion Trusts for Land Reclamation Works, (TCIF), belonging
to this directorate and their regional branches would under-
take project construction.
(ii)  Technical, Investment and Cooperation Directorate.  The
Institute of Land Reclamation and Design (ISPIF), which is
under this directorate would be responsible for the planning
and design of the projects. Project construction would be
supervised by the Group for Supervising of Investments (GSI)
which is also a part of this directorate.
(iii) Planning and Finance Directorate.
(iv) Supply Directorate.
All the departments of DIFCA are adequately staffed and have good past expe-
rience in carrying out similar works. Project procurement would be arranged
by ROMAGRIMEX, which is a State-enterprise responsible for import and export
under MAIA.
4.04      National Water Council (NWC').  The Council is headed by a Minister
and has the overall responsibility in the country for:
(i) Planning Water projects;
(ii)  Design of flood control and River Training Works and
their construction;
(iii) Design of storage reservoirs and their construction;
(iv)  Water management;
(v) Pollution Control.
The design of floating pumping stations and pumped storages in the Mostistea
Project and widening of Calmatui Rive-r in the Calmatui Project would be
carried out by the NWC, while the specialized Construction Trusts of the NWC
would undertake construction. Organization of NWC is shown in Chart 4.
4.05      Under Romanian planning procedures, the approval of the technical
and economic indicators of projects by the Council of Ministers is normal,
and provides the legal basis for financing and implementing projects.  The
approval of the detailed project parameters of the Mostistea and Calmatui
project by the Council of Ministers would be a condition of loan effective-
ness. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 38 -
B. Operation and Maintenance
4.06      The irrigation and drainage works, to be constructed under the proj-
ect would be operated and maintained under the direction of the Central for
Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works (CELIF) which is headed by a Deputy
Minister of MAIA and has the responsibility for operation and maintenance of
all completed irrigation projects. CELIF has 17 operational units, called
enterprises or IELIFs, which are based in districts. Each IELIF has several
sub-units, known as Systems; each System maintains about 20,000 ha to 25,000
ha of irrigated land. New Systems would be established under the IELIFs in
Ilfov, Buzau and Braila districts to operate and maintain the works under
the projects. The new Systems would be adequately staffed by trained tech-
nicians and supervisors. Equipment for operation and maintenance (Annex
3 Table 2) to be furnished by Mostistea Project would be handed over to the
IELIF in Ilfov district, while the equipment for Calmatui Project would be
entrusted to IELIFs in Buzau and Braila districts. The power supply works
would be maintained by the Ministry of Energy. The on-farm portable equipment
would be maintained by the farm entities, and the farm machinery would be
maintained either by the SMAs or the IASs.
4.07      The annual operation and maintenance costs of the Mostistea and
Calmatui projects is Lei 214.0 million (US$11.9 million) and Lei 47.4 mil-
lion (US$2.6 million) respectively. (Details are given in Annex 5 Table 3.)
Included in the above cost is the annual cost of consumption of electrical
energy amounting to Lei 107.9 million (US$6.0 million) which is well within
the generation capacity of the country.
C. Accounts and Audit
4.08      Audit and Control System.  To support its highly centralized
decision-making process, Romania has an elaborate control and audit system
designed to keep the manager of the economy advised on the progress of, and
deviations from, planned activities. This control system has three major
objectives: (i) to audit accounts to ensure accurate financing status; (ii)
to determine that resources are being used in accordance with national plans;
and (iii) to recommend desirable changes in resource use.
4.09      The system is organized like a pyramid.  At the top is the Court of
Superior Control, while at the bottom are accountants who check and approve
routine transactions at the enterprise level. The numerous organizations
perform either "Internal Control" or "External Control". These controls can
further be divided into two broad categories: the preliminary control which
covers day-to-day transactions; and the posterior control which resembles
annual audits. Thus an enterprise, during a period of one year, is inspected
by (i) its own chief accounts officer; (ii) the internal controller, who
reports both to the general manager of the Central and Minister concerned;
(iii) controllers from the Ministry of Finance who report to the Ministry of
Finance; and (iv) inspectors from the Court of Superior Control.



- 39 -
4.10      The existing accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are quite
strict and satisfactory. The continuous audit of different organizations
involved in project implementation would ensure that project funds, including
those which would be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan, would be
used properly.
4.11      Project Accounts.  BAFI would keep separate accounts for all
project-related expenditures, including those goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. Project investment
funds to be financed from the State Budget would be transferred quarterly to
BAFI by the Ministry of Finance for disbursements. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that a report on project accounts together with BAFI
financial statements, both subject to existing audit procedures by the
Ministry of Finance would be supplied to the Bank within six months of the
close of the Romanian fiscal year (see para 6.01(iv)).
D. Project Monitoring and Completion Report
4.12      Project Monitoring and Key Project Indicators.  BAFI would bie
responsible for submitting through periodic reports to the Bank, the informa-
tion necessary to measure systematically project execution against the pro-
posed implementation schedule, and project performance after completion of
construction against project benefits foreseen during appraisal. The reports
would be similar to those currently submitted for on-going projects and would
include data on the progress of construction of all physical facilities under
various project components, progress in the procurement of equipment and
materials, and data on project expenditures. Agricultural data indicating
the areas reclaimed, drained and brought under irrigation, cropping patterns
applied, crop yields and output, and information on the operation and main-
tenance costs of irrigation and dra:inage works would be submitted annually.
The details of the format in which the above information would be supplied
to the Bank were discussed and assurances sought on their timely provision
during negotiations (see para 6.01(v)).
4.13      Project Completion Report.. Promptly after completion of the proj-
ect, but no later than six months after the closing date, BAFI would pr-epare
and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and intital operation of
the project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it,
the performance by the Bank and BAFI] of their respective obligations under
the proposed loan agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
proposed loan. The detailed contents of the report were discussed and
assurances sought on its timely provision during negotiations (see para
6.01(vi)).



- 40 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Production and Markets
5.01      Production.  In establishing cropping patterns and cropping inten-
sities in the project area, many factors such as supply of irrigation water,
availability of land, profitability of crops, technical requirements of crop
rotation, climate and soil fertility have been taken into consideration.
The cropping pattern has also been related to domestic needs and foreign
markets. The projected cropping patterns comprise a range of crops with
varying growing seasons which together cover the entire summer period ensur-
ing an almost continuous use of labor and farm implements. The area under
maize and fodder crops is directly related to the development of livestock
and would be modified in pace with the size of the herd. In conclusion it
can be said that within the scope of the available land and water and the
marketing possibilities, the proposed cropping patterns would yield maximum
benefits and the projected sizes of civil works would permit sufficient
flexibility to meet the dynamic nature of demand patterns in the future.
Changes in cropped area and production with and without the project for all
areas are summarized below.



- 41 -
Cropped Area                 Production
Present and   Future       Present and   Future
Future w/out  With         Future w/out  With
Project        Project    Project         Project   Incremental
-------- ha ---------    ------tons 000's-----
Wheat                   55,642      38,802         134.4       167.5          33.1
Barley                  12,016      11,100          28.4        52.5          24.1
Maize (grain)           67,814      93,935         204.8       668.8         464.0
Peas                     1,288         -             1.7         -            (1.7)
Beans                    4,440         -             4.7         -             1(4.7)
Vegetables /1            2,835       6,340          42.5       158.5         11]6.0
Potatoes                   -         4,020           -         120.6         120.6
Soybean                  6,118       9,801           7.3        24.1          1L6.8
Sunflower               26,423      15,340          36.7        34.4          (2.3)
Sugar beet               7,921      15,890         174.1       721.6         547.5
Alfalfa (hay)           19,309      23,926          82.4       232.1         149.7
Vetch                    3,451         -            69.9         -           (69.9)
Vineyards                2,114         327           8.4         2.0           (6.4)
Orchards /2                461         461           2.1         2.8           0.7
Natural Pastures         2,138         456          11.3        13.7           2.4
Maize Silage /3            -       (26,441)          -         925.4         925.4
Sorghum green
mass /3                            (5,060)          -         153.9         153.9
Not cultivated           9,200         -             -           -             -
Total                  221,170    220,398
Gross Value of
Crops /4
(lei million)                                     755.9    1,973.1        1,217.2
Gross Value of
By-products /4
(lei million)                                      27.3        53.4          26.1
Total Gross Value
(lei million)                                     783.2    2,026.5        1,243.3
/1   Consists mainly of tomatoes, and also green peppers, eggplants, etc.
/2   Consists mainly of peaches and apricots.
/3   Double crop.
/4   At official 1978 domestic farmgate prices.
At full development with the project ithe gross value of production, at
domestic farm-gate prices, would be 259% greater than the present withoult-
project production value.



- 42 -
5.02      Future Production -- Mostistea.  With the development of irrigation
the actual number of cultivated hectares would be reduced by 815 ha due to
drain construction, but 26,441 hectares would be double cropped with maize
silage after wheat and barley harvesting. In addition to yield increases due
to irrigation, double cropping of maize would increase the cropping intensity
from 100 to 117.1%. Winter crops which require only supplementary irrigation
would be reduced from 35.2% to 19.6%, allowing for a higher percentage of
summer crops to take better advantage of irrigation; among the latter the most
profitable would be grown on a large scale, irrigated potato would be intro-
duced, less profitable crops such as peas and beans would be excluded, and
vineyards and natural pastures would be reduced. The proposed cropping pat-
tern is mainly oriented to livestock development with maize grain increasing
from 31 to 35.4%, alfalfa from 9 to 11.3% and maize silage being introduced
over 17.1% of the cultivated land. In addition, by-products such as sugar
beet tops and pulp, and maize stalks would be valorized by livestock develop-
ment. With the project the net return based on domestic prices would reach
756 M lei, compared to 191 M lei today, almost a 400% increase.
5.03      Future Production -- Calmatui.  With the project, 42,726 ha of non
saline lands would be drained to improve the growing conditions but would
continue to be grown without irrigation, until water can be provided through
Calagan canal either from Danube or from Siret river (depending on the season)
in the 1990s.  Allowing for open drains, the number of cultivated ha will
decrease from 42,726 to 41,527 ha.  Near the Danube 23,000 ha of non saline
(13,800 ha) and saline (9,200 ha) soils would be irrigated and drained.
Assumed yields would be slightly higher on non saline soils than on saline
soils. Irrigated conditions wouLd permit double cropping of sorghum green
mass, giving a cropping intensity of 122%. Winter crops which only require
supplementary irrigation would be reduced from 32.5% to 21.9% allowing for a
higher percentage of summer crops to take advantage of irrigation. With
the project the net return would reach 134 M Lei compared to 13.6 M Lei today,
a ten-fold increase. Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2 show for the various crops
grown, the number of cultivated ha, average yields per ha, price per ton (a
weighted average between prices paid to CAPs and IASs), production costs,
gross and net returns per ha, and total net return per crop for both project
areas with and without the project.
5.04      Romania is carrying out a rigorous program of growing maize grain as
a double crop, particularly after barley. Results at present are indifferent
mainly due to lack of planning in growing the main forerunners for this double
crop, resulting in plant diseases and pests, compounded by excessive soil
wetness at harvest time. Efforts are being made to remove these constraints.
5.05      Markets.  While export/import projections are not specific, it is
expected that Romania will remain a net exporter of grains (wheat, barley,
maize) and sunflower oil, and a net importer of soybean, feed concentrates,
and sugar. Annual exports of maize, the major project commodity, averaged
over 350,000 tons during the 1970's through 1976. Major grain importers have
included the Federal Republic of Germany, the UK, France, Italy, Austria,
and the USSR. Despite increases in incremental domestic feedgrain require-
ments, the grain balance is expected to remain positive, and prospects for



- 43 -
continued exports are favorable. Market prospects for internal consumption
are also favorable. The Mostistea area is especially well located from a
marketing standpoint because of excellent transport facilities, proximity to
Bucharest, and the projected growth of towns in and around the project area.
5.06      Feedgrains and Fodder Crops.  Of total maize production in Romania
it is estimated that in 1977, 70% wats used as animal feed, 15% for human con-
sumption, 12% for processing into starch, alcohol, oil and furfural, and the
remaining 3% for export. This pattern is expected to continue under thle
project.  Less than 15% of the maize produced under the project would be used
for livestock consumption in the project area proper, with the remainder dis-
tributed to other areas, especially to the northern part of the countrv, and
some to export markets. Stems and stalks would be purchased by paper and
housing material factories, used as combustibles, or turned back into the
soil as fertilizer. For barley, which both at present and with the project,
occupies roughly 4% of the Mostistea cropped area and would occupy 9% of the
Calmatui area, 50% would be used for livestock consumption in the project
area, with the remainder to be used for industrial (beer, concentrates) and
human consumption. Of the total barley grown in the country an estimated 80%
is used as feedgrain. To serve increasing feed demand, alfalfa would be grown
on 11% of the Mostistea area, and a small portion of the area (0.3%) would be
reserved for natural pastures. Similarly, in Calmatui alfalfa would be grown
on 10% of the area, and sorghum greenmass would be double cropped after wheat
and barley over 8% of the area: bothi would be used 100% for livestock.
5.07      Sugarbeet.  About 7% of the cultivated area with-project in F[ostistea
as compared with less than 3% at present, would be used for sugar beet. In
Calmatui, where the soils are saline, sugar beet would be grown on 8% of the
cultivated area. Per capita consumption of sugar in Romania was 20 kilograms
in 1975. Consumption is intended to increase to 28-29 kilograms by 1980.
During five of the last seven years, Romania was a net importer of sugar. The
proposed incremental sugar production under the project, about 76,500 tons per
year, would be used to meet domestic consumption needs. Two existing sugar
factories in the Mostistea area each process about 4,000 tons of sugar beet
per 24 hours over a period of about 135 days per year. Both facilities operate
at full capacity and are planned to be modernized. Two additional factories
of the same capacity were put into operation in 1978. In Calmatui a 3,000
ton/24 hours plant is operating at full capacity, with a second factory (4,000
tons/24 hours) to be operational in 1980. No additional facilities are required
in either project area.
5.08      Vegetables:  In Mostistea the area set aside for vegetables, mainly
tomatoes, constitutes 4% of the cropped area. This is more than twice the
area currently cultivated with similar vegetables, although an additional area
of 4% produces peas and beans which are not part of the with-project cropping
pattern. Potatoes are being introduced under the project over about 3% of
the cultivated land. Potatoes are used not only for human consumption, but
also as animal feed and for industrial purposes. Consumption of vegetables
is expected to increase from 113 kilograms per capita in 1975 to 125-130 kiIo-
grams by 1985. Project output of these products would supply growing towns



- 44 -
and cities in the nearby areas, including Bucharest.  Vineyards and orchards
take up only 0.5% of the total cropped area, and are grown almost exclusively
on individual plots. The markets for both fruits and vegetables are assured.
No fruit or vegetable production is foreseen for Calmatui.
5.09      Soybean and Sunflower.  Equal areas in the Mostistea project area
would be cropped with soybean and sunflower (about 5% each). In Calmatui 3%
of the area will be devoted to soybean and 12% to sunflower. Entire produc-
tion of these crops is processed; most of the sunflower production is pro-
cessed into oil with cake used for feed, while 10-15% of soybean is used in
oil processing, and the remainder is used by livestock feedmills. Soybean
production is relatively new to Romania and imports, so far, have averaged
100,000 tons per annum. The project output would contribute to the goal of
self-sufficiency in soybean production.
B. Prices
5.10      Domestic Prices.  Because of the system of economic management in
Romania, market forces have little or no influence in determining domestic
prices. Price influences from abroad are regulated through a Price Equaliza-
tion Fund. Prices are fixed by the Government and vary according to quality
of products and in some instances according to the delivery dates. Present
prices did not change significantly over a period of about fifteen years.
Some upward revisions occurred during 1977/78, but no increases are foreseen
over the period 1981-85. Prices may vary by zone but are common within each
zone. Domestic production prices reflect the cost of production plus a
pre-determined "profit" margin. Prices of all commodities, which are low in
relation to those of comparable products in other countries, when compared
at the official exchange rate, reflect low input prices including low cost of
labor.
5.11      The IASs are required to sell all their products to the marketing
enterprises or their sub-units. CAPs, however, make their deliveries based
on contracts signed with the marketing agencies at the beginning of each
cropping season, the contracted quantities having been established after sub-
tracting food and feed needs for human and livestock consumption, ensuring
seed requirements, and setting aside payments in kind for members and the SMA.
Prices of cereals received by the CAPs for their contract deliveries are
higher than those paid to the IASs. Prices of oilseeds are uniform through-
out Romania. Domestic prices of vegetables, potatoes, fruits, sugar beet and
grapes are fixed by grades and dates of delivery. They vary between a maximum
for early delivery and superior quality and a minimum for later delivery and
poor quality, but cannot exceed or undercut these limits.
5.12      Prices Used for Economic Analysis.  The average of official farmgate
prices of project commodities which are applicable to all producers throughout
Romania and CAP contract prices are shown in Annex 8 Tables 1 and 2. For
the economic analysis of the project prices of tradeable inputs and outputs
have been derived from the Bank'S forecast of world prices for the period



- 45 -
1979-1990 1/ and for the non-tradeables, average official domestic prices are
used.  Tradeables include cereals, oilseeds, sugar beet (sugar) and fertili-
zers; non-tradeables include fodders, crop residues, fruits, vegetables, and
inputs other than fertilizers. Fruits and vegetables are exported, but for
the purpose of this analysis the fruit and vegetable production associated
with the project is considered non-tradeable. Romania is a price-taker in
the world market and project output of tradeables would have little or no
influence on international or domestic prices.
C. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.13      Benefits.  The quantifiable benefits from the proposed projects
derive mainly from the increase in the value of production and also from the
prevention of flood damages. Irrigation and drainage works will permit more
productive cropping patterns and will result in improved and stable yields; on
an area of over 220,000 hectares. The gross value of production, at domestic
prices would increase by 259% (para 5.01). Most of the output of major cr'ops
is intended for domestic use in order to increase per capita consumption and
raw material supply to agro-industrial enterprises. In addition, foreign
exchange earnings are expected, mainly from grain exports. Increased self-
sufficiency in crops like soybean and sugar beet will help to save foreign
exchange. It is however, difficult to make a reliable estimate of the level
of these foreign exchange benefits due to uncertainties in incremental grain
exports and increasing per capita sugar consumption.  Labor productivity would
more than double, increasing from about lei 11,200 (US$620) per agricultural
worker to about lei 28,950 (US$1,600). The benefits attributed to flood
damages prevented by regulation of the Calmatui River are based on costs of
relocation and crop losses from flooding on about 18,500 ha.
5.14      Beneficiaries.  Balanced income distribution is achieved in Romania
by the absorption of surpluses from all sectors into the State budget and
subsequent redistribution throughout the economy. The project would affect
incomes of the 56,000 CAP workers in the project area (almost 109,000 co-
operating families) and IAS employees mainly indirectly by (1) contributing
to increases in real wages and an improved standard of living as provided by
the income distribution policies, (2) reducing the risk of crop failures and
thereby withheld profits, and (3) increasing the likelihood of exceeding pro-
duction targets and making bonus funds available. In addition, the population
benefitting from the regulation of the Calmatui River comprises about 2,000
inhabitants in 17 localities currently affected by damages from flooding.
D. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.15      The economic rate of return for all project components is 15% based
on quantifiable benefits. The rate of return for separable project components
1/   Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities, Report No. 814/78 of
June 1978.



- 46 -
are (a) Mostistea, 15%, (b) Calmatui-Rainfed Non-Saline Area, 20%, (c) Calmatui-
Irrigated Saline and Non-Saline Areas, 13%, and (d) Calmatui - all areas com-
bined, 15% (Annex 9). Costs and benefits have been computed over an assumed
project life of 40 years, based on the following additional assumptions:
(a) Investment Costs. Investment and operating costs are
calculated based on prevailing 1978 prices.  The cost
streams include physical contingencies and exclude (i)
price contingencies because all input and output values
are expressed in constant 1978 terms and relative prices
are expected to remain unchanged over the life of the
project, (ii) duties, and (iii) farm machinery because
annual production costs already include mechanization
services.
(b) Implementation. Works would begin in 1979 and all areas
would be irrigated and drained by 1985. Project construc-
tion on the Mostistea component would begin in 1979 and
be completed in 1984. For the Calmatui area works on
irrigated lands (saline and non-saline soils) would begin
in 1980 and be completed by 1985. In the rainfed area,
Calmatui River widening would take place over the period
1979-1982, while drainage works on the rainfed area would
extend from 1982-1985 (Annex 6 and Implementation Schedules,
World Bank 19663 and 19662).
(c) Cropping Patterns and Yields: In the future, without the
project, cropping patterns and yields would remain constant
as no significant yield increase seems possible without
first removing the constraints of either lack of moisture
or its excess. With the project, the areas under wheat,
barley, sunflower, vineyards, and natural pastures would be
reduced and peas, beans and vetch would no longer be cul-
tivated. Areas under maize, vegetables, soybean, sugar beet
and alfalfa would be increased and potatoes would be added.
Maize silage and sorghum green mass would be introduced as
double crops. Only the small area cultivated as orchards
would remain unchanged. Yield development in the irrigated
areas of Mostistea, and on non-saline lands in Calmatui
would take place over four years in increments of 30%, 70%,
90% and 100%. In the irrigated saline areas of Calmatui,
yields will develop over a period of four years in increments
of 70%, 80%, 90%, and 100% beginning in the second year after
irrigation due to reclamation and no cultivation at present.
For Calmatui rainfed non-saline areas, full development is
assumed one year after drainage. Phasing according to the
implementation schedule outlined in (b) above has been taken
into account in calculating the yield development for the
various areas.



- 47 -
(d) Benefits from Calmatui River Widening: About 2,000 inhabi-
tants in 17 localities of the Calmatui project area are
currently affected by damages from flooding. Damages occur
over an area of about 18,500 ha. Based on relocation costs,
damages to physical assets, and crop losses, the annual
estimate of net damages prevented is lei 16.0 million.
This benefit has been phas,ed to correspond with the inple-
mentation schedule for rivier widening and drainage works
(para 3.20). The full benefit is obtained in 1986.
(e) Area Currently Irrigated: Currently 10,869 ha in CAP plots
ranging from 10 to 466 ha are irrigated by obsolete systems
with ponds along valleys as their water source. The cropping
pattern in these lands varies with the location but consists
mainly of vegetables, fodders and maize grain. The benefits
foregone from these areas are taken into account in the
analysis.
(f) Output Prices: Prices are expressed in 1978 constant terms
with tradeables projected through 1990. Wheat, barley, and
maize are valued at export parities derived from Bank price
projections adjusted for internal transportation costs to
the border, as well as for external freight differentials
and handling. Soybean and sugar beet are valued as import
substitutes. Bank projections through 1990 have been
adjusted for savings in transport, insurance, and for the
differential between internal transport between the project
area and border and the project area and market. Sunflower
has been adjusted for extraction of oil and pellets includ-
ing a 10% crushing margin with oil priced at an export
parity and pellets at an import parity. All other outputs
(fodders, by-products, fruits, potatoes, peas, beans, and
other vegetables) are trealted as non-tradeable and valued
at domestic prices. Internal transport costs for bulk items
are estimated at .833 lei/lton km. Shipping costs are based
on the latest available freight quotations for 1978 (Annex 8
Table 1).
(g) Input Prices: Fertilizer inputs are valued at world market
prices derived from Bank projections. Romania exports
nitrogen and phosphates and imports potash. Inputs are
valued accordingly. Manure is priced at its nutrient
content value, which is assumed to be 4.0 kg N, 1.85 kg
P 055 and 4.4 kg K20 per ton. The cost of labor is
adjusted for the expected real increase (25%) in wages
over the next Five Year Plan period (1981-1985) (Annex 8
Table 2).
(h) Annual Production Costs: Annual costs of production,
valued as explained in (g) above, and including fixed
costs per ha and variable costs per ton, are detailed
in Annex 10.



- 48 -
(i) Operation and Maintenance and Replacement Costs: Annual
operation and maintenance costs are detailed in Annex 5
Table 3. Replacement of sprinkler equipment is provided
every ten years and is valued net of price contingencies
and duties.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
5.16      The risk of not attaining project objectives due to construction
delays, cost overruns, or inadequate supply of inputs or services is con-
sidered low. Bank experience with other Romanian irrigation projects to date
confirms this assumption. The design institues and construction trusts have
experience with similar successful schemes. Project costs are based on offi-
cially regulated prices which are not expected to change significantly during
the period of project implementation. The supply of adequate agricultural
inputs and services is assured.
5.17      Sensitivity analysis is, therefore, applied to test assumptions that
are considered less certain. Projected yields and their development are based
on applied research and experience in comparable areas and are considered
reasonable. Nonetheless, if the period of development were extended from the
assumed 4 years to 6 years in irrigated areas and from full development after
the first year of drainage to a gradual development over three years in the
rainfed area, the economic rate of return would decrease to 13%. The pro-
jected maize yields range from 6 to 8 ton/ha in the various irrigated areas
(3.2 ton/ha in the rainfed portion). Reducing them by 20%, i.e., to a range
from 4.8 to 6.4 ton/ha on irrigated lands (to 2.6 ton/ha on rainfed lands)
would lower the rate of return to 11%. Combining the extended period of
development with 20% lower maize yields would reduce the rate of return to
10%. Reducing prices of all tradeable commodities by 20% would lower the rate
of return to 11%. Therefore, even under pessimistic assumptions about the
projected benefits, the economic rate of return on the project would remain
satisfactory.
5.18      Sensitivity analysis was also applied to test the effect of export-
ing part of the vegetable production. Although vegetables occupy a small por-
tion of the Mostistea area (4%), the export of 40% of the vegetables produced
increases the rate of return to 17%. The assumption of 40% for export and 60%
for domestic consumption is based on a conservative assessment of the propor-
tion of vegetables which would be of a quality suitable for export markets.
Romania is a net exporter of fresh fruits and vegetables. The export parity
(spot) price is derived from the EMENA Fruit and Vegetable Marketing Study 1/
and based on a "basket" of vegetables, mainly tomatoes, in 1978 constant terms
adjusted for special handling and packing, refrigerated trucking, and losses.
Sensitivities were also applied to test the effect of growing maize grain
after barley as a second crop instead of maize silage in Mostistea (para 5.04).
1/   EMENA Fruit and Vegetable Export Market Prospects, Draft Desk Study,
April 20, 1978.



-- 49 -
Taking into account the necessary re!placement of wheat by barley on an area of
20,874 ha, increased annual production costs, and a yield of 6 tons per ha,
the rate of return would be 14% for maize grain achieved in 2 out of 5 years,
15% for maize grain achieved in 3 or 4 out of 5 years, and 16% for maize grain
achieved every year.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained on the following:
(i)  approval by the Council oi Ministers of the technical and
economic indicators of the Mostistea and Calmatui project
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.05);
(ii) widening of Calmatui River would be completed by December 31,
1981. This component is not a part of the Bank project but
is essential to the drainage system to be constructed under
the project (para. 3.20);
(iii) procurement of equipment, listed in Annex 3 Table 3 and esti-
mated to cost US$70.0 million would be arranged following
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines (para. 3.40);
(iv) a report on project accounts and annual financial statements
of BAFI audited by the Ministry of Finance would be submitted
to the Bank annually within six months of the close of the
Romanian Fiscal year (para. 4.11);
(v) necessary data and information would be furnished to the Bank,
through periodic reports, to measure project implementation and
performance against scheduled targets (para. 4.12);
(vi) promptly after project completion, but not later than six
months after the closing date, BAFI would prepare and furnish
to the Bank, a project completion report (para. 4.13)
6.02      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$70.0 million to the Bank of Agriculture and Food Industry,
with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania for a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                              Table 1
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Mostistea - Climatological Data
I   II   III   IV   V   VI   VII   VIII   IX   X   XI   XII  Annual
------- - --------------Months-----------------------------
Average rainfall (mm)
Bucharest                   38   31    36    44  64   92    58    52    36   42   46  40   579 mm
Calarasi (Idem)             38   31    31    37  52   72    56    34    38   34   41  39   503 mm
Maximum monthly
rainfall (mm)
Bucharest                  132  121   103   130 260  298   195   183   169  143  207 185   860 mm
Calarasi (Idem)           147  172    85   129 172  177   231   143   193  140  133 149   814 mm
Minimum monthly
rainfall (mm)
Bucharest                  3.1  0.7   1.8   2.4   7   6.1  10.2  3.2    0    0   0.6  1.3  277 mm
Calarasi (Idem)           2.0   0    0.2   0.2   3   6         5.4   0       0    0   0    0.4  292 mm
Average temperature
( OC)
Bucharest                 -3.3 -1.2   4.4  10.8  16.4  20  22.3 21.6   17.4 11.4 4.8 -0.5
Calarasi (Idem)          -2      0    5.3  11.6  17.1 20.8123.1 22          18.1 12.3 6.2  0.7
Average ma-dimum
temperature (OC)
Bucharest                  0.5  2.9  10.1  17.9  23.6 27.5 30.0 29.8   25.6 18.3 10.1 3.3
Calarasi (Idem)           1    3.5  10.2  18.1  23.7 27.4 29.9 29.6   25.6 18.6 11.0 4.0
Average minimum
temperature (oC)
3ucharest                 -7.2 -5.6  -0.9   4.9   9.9 13.7 15.7 14.9   11.1  6.1  1.6 -3.6
Calarasi (Idem)          -5.6 -4.1   0.7   6.2  11.2 15.2 17.2 16.1   12.0  7.3  3.0 -2.4
Potential evapotran-
s iration (mm)
..hont hwaite formula)
Bucharest                 0      0   14    50    94  124   143  125    83   45   13           0   691
Calarasi                  0      0   16    52    98  129   156  127    86   48   17           1   730
Average relative
humidity (%) v
Bucharest           ,    87    83   73    61    61   62    57   57    62   72   82    88
Calarasi (Idem)          86    82   73    66    64   65    61   63    68   75   83    87
Sunshine hours
Bucharest                65    93  153   198   249  274   332  318   249  171   83    60  2246



ANNEX 1
- 51                        Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Calmatui - Climatological Data
I   II   III   IV   V   VI   VII   VTTT  IX   X   XTIT          i XIanTua
-------------------Months-------------------------------
Average rainfall (mm)
Buzau                    27   27   26    43  57   80    62    48   34   39  36   33    512
Braila (Idem)             30   25   26    37  50   63    46    40   25   33  34   31    440
Average temperature (OC)
Buzau                   -0.9  0.9   6   11.8 17.1 20.8 23.1  22.7 18.6 12.5 6.2  1.4
Galati (Idem)           -3.1 -1.1  1.1  10.6 16.5 20.3 22.6  22.0 17.6 11.5 5.2  0
Potential Evapo-
transpiration (mm)
Buzau                     0     0   1Lt   49   95   123  146  128   83   44   13   0        695
Braila                    0     0   15   50   99   129  149  135   86   45   14   1         720
Average relative
humidity %
Buzau                     80   78   72   63   62    62   59   59   62   71   78   81
Braila                    82   78   71   61   60    61   58   59   63   73   78   83
Average wind
velocity (m/s)
Buzau                    2.1  2.0  2.2  2.4  2.4  2.1   2.0  2.1  1.8  2.2  2.2  1.9
Braila                   2.4  2.4  2.8  2.8  2.6  2.2   1.8  1.7  1.9  2.0  2.2  2.2
Average sunshine
hours
Buzau                    94   101  150  187  235  272  313   303  240  199  .8    74  2256
Braila                   75    89  138  173  228  271  315   296  229  185  77    60  2136



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Present and Future Cropping Pattern for Mostistea
Present Cropping Pattern                                                                         Future Cropping Pattern
Vield        Price           Gross Return    Production   Net Return   Cultivated   Net Return  Yield   Gross Return  Production Cost Net Return   Cultivated    Net Return per
Ton per Ha   per Ton              per Ha          Cost per Ha  Per Ha             Ha         per Crop  pec Ha   per Hectare   per Ha                  per Ha            Ha         Crop Lai 000's
------------------------------------------…lei                ……                             Lei----…le----------------------d…_ei  00'     ---------------------------lei---------------------------------------------
Wheat                  2.6          1275             3315             2459            856         42753         36,596         5.0        6375         3649              2726           24740          67441
Barley                 2.65        1055              2796             2259            537          6915          3713          6.0       6330          3777              2553            5567          14213
Maize (grain)          3.35         1105             3702             2380          1322          47340          62583         8.0       8840          4223              4617           70201         32411R
Peas                   1.35        2010              2713             3167          - 454          1288           -585         -           -            -                  -              -
Beans                  1.05        3210              3370             3009            361          4440           1603                           -                -                       -              -
Vegetables            15.0         1500             29500            17308           5192          2835          14719        ?5.0      37500         28543              8957            6340          56787
Soybeans               1.2         3600              4320             ?790           1530          6118           9361         2.S       9000          3799              9201            7731          40209
Sunflower              1.5         2030              3045             2171            874         19186          16769         2,7       5481          2975              2506            7731         19374
Sugar Beet            25.0          350              8750             6372           2378          3991           9491        50.0      17900          8856              8644           10824          93563
Alfalfa                4,8          470              2256             2131            125         13656           1707        11.0       5170          3694              1476           17473          25790
Vetch                 20.25         110              2227             1855            372          3451           1284        -           -              -               -               -                -
Vineyards              4.0         3900             15600             9804          5796           2114          12253         6.0      23400         11028             12372             327           4046
Orchards               4.2         2400             10080             9673            407           461            188         6.0      14400         10700              3700             461           1706
Nat. Past'ures         5.3          110               583               84            499          2138           1067        30.0       3300          1538              1762             456            803
Maize Silage           -             80                -                -             -             -              -          35.0       2800          2536               264        (26441)*          6980
(Wheat Straw)          1.7          140               238               -            238         (42753) *        171         3.5        490          -                  490        (24740)         12123
(Barley Straw)         1.8          140               252               -            252         ( 69'5)        1743          4 X         560         -                   560        ( 5567)          3118
(Maize Stalks)         1.0          120               120               -            120         (47340)        5681           2.Q        240         -                   240        (70201)         16848
(Sunflower Stems)    1.0             40                40               -             40         (19136)         767           20          80        -                     80        ( 7731)           618
(Soya hean  Straw)    0.8           120                96               -             96         ( 6118)         587           1.7        204         -                   204        ( 7731)          1577
Potatoes                -           900                                                                                       36.0       27000      12041               14959          4020          60135
(Sugar Beet Tops)      3.0           lO0              300                -            300         ( 3991)       1197            6 0         600        -                   600        (10824)          6494
TOTAL                                                                                     156.686     189702                                                                  155871         755943          a
Cultivated ha in parentheses indicate areas yielding by-products and double crop                                                                                                        October 1978
(maize silage).  Should not be double counted.



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Present and Future Crooping Pattern for Calmatui
Present Cromoing Pattern                                                                         Future Croppine_ Pattern
Yield     Price per  Gross Return   Production Net Return  Cultivated  Net Return              Yield    Gross        Production    Net Return   Cultivated    Net Return
Crops     Ton per Na       Ton        per Na          Coot       Per Na        Na       per Cr           Ton per Na  Return           Cost         per Na           Ha         Pr Crop.
____~         -l  ------------_______ H__________ p    Le      a                   per Ha         per Ha.-_____________
Rainfed Non Saline Soils                                                                         -
Wheat            1.8        1275         2295           2199         96         10681          1025              2.7      3442         2491            951          10382            9873
Barley          2.0         1055         2110           2036         74          4273           316              3.0      3165         2379            786           4153            3264
Maize Grain      2.1        1105         2320           2084        236         14954          3529              3.2      3536         2344           1192          14534           17325
Sunflower       1.1         2030         2233          2058         175          6409          1122             1.6       3248         2200           1048           6229            6528
Nay Alfalfa     3.0          470         1410           1857       -447          4273         -1910             4.5       2115         2085             30           4153             125
Suger Beet     18.0          350         6300          5987         313          2136           669            25.0       8750         6372           2378           2076            4937
Wheat Straw      1.2         140          168            -          168        (10681)*        1794              1.8       252           -             252         (10382)*          2616
Barley Stra      1.4         140          196            -          196         (4273)          838              2.1       294           _             294          (4153)           1221
Maize Stalks    1.0          120          120            -          120        (14954)         1794              1.5       180           -             180         (14534)           2616
Sunflower Stens 1.0           40           40            -           40         (6409)          256             1.2         48           -              48          (6229)            299
Sugarbeet Tops 3.0           100         300                        300         (2136)         641              4.0        400                         400          (2076)            83G
Irrinated Non Saline Soils                                         42726         10074                                        49bJ4
Wheat            1.8        1275         2295           2199         96          2208                            4 5      5737         3354           2383           2208            5262
Barley          2.0         1055         2110           2036         74           828            61             5.0       5275         3330           1945            828            1610
Maize            2.1        1105         2320           2084        236          5520          1303              7.0      7735         4022           3713           5520           29496
Sunflower       1.1         2030         2233          2058          175          828           145             2.6       5278         3008           2270            828            1880
Soybean           -         3600          -               -          -             -             -              2.4       8640         3809           4831           1242            6000
Alfalfa          3.0         470         1410           1857       -447          1380         (-617)            10o0      4700         3094           1606           1380            2217
Sugar Beet     16.0          350         6300          5987         313          1794           562            45,0      15750         8617           7133           1794           12797
Sorghum Green
Mass                        80          -               -          -             _             -             32.0       2560         2278            282          (3036)            856
Wheat Straw      1.2         140          168             -          168        (220()          371              3.0       420           -             420          (2208)            927
Barley Straw    1.4          140          196             -         196          (S28)          162             3.a        490                         490 8a28)                      406
Maize Stalks    1.0          120          120             -         120         (5520)          662              2.0       240           -             240          (5520)           1325
Sunflower Stems 1.0           40           40             -          40          (828)           33             2.0         80           -              80           (828)             66
Scybean Straw                120                                                                                 1.5       180           -             180          (1242)            224
Sugar Beet Tops 3.0          100          300                       300         (1794)         f .              7.0        700           -             700          (1794)           1256
12558         3432                                                                  13800           55322
Irrizared Saline Soils
Whest                       1275        Presently not regolarly cultivated                                      4.0      5100          3192           1908           1472            2809
Barley                      1055             Considered not cultivated                                          4.5      4747          3158           1589            552             877
Maize                       1105                                                                                 6.0     6630          3785           2845           3680           10470
Sunflower                   2030                                                                                2.4      4872          2951           1921            552            1060
Soybean                     3600                                                                                2.2      7920          3696           4224            828            3497
Alfalfa                      470                                                                                8.0      3760          2790            970            920             892
Sugar Beet                   350                                                                               40.0    14000           8342           5658           1196            6767
Sorghum Green
Mass                        80                                                                               28.      2240          2126            114          (2024)            231
Wheat Straw                  140                                                                                 2.7      378            -             378          (1472)            556
Barley Stem                  140                                                                                3.0       420            -             420           (552)            232
Matze Stalks                 120                                                                                2.t       240            _             240          (36tl)            883
Sunflower Stems               40                                                                                2.0        80            _              80           (552)             44
Soyeaan  Straw               120                                                                                1.2       144            _             144          ( 828)            119
Sugar Beet Tops              100                                                                                6.0       600            _             600          (11962            718
29155
Total for Calmatui Project                                                                   13506                                                                                 134111
a Cultivated ho in p-rentheo.. indicate areas yielding by-products and double crop
(sorghum green  ass) Should not be double counted.
October 1978
olM



- 54                               ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
List of Farm Machinery
Estimated
Estimated    Total Cost
Quantity         Unit Cost      '000 lei
Item and Specifications       Mostistea Calmatui  '000 lei   Mostistea Calmatui
Agricultural
Tractors 65 hp                   600       220         75      45,000    16,500
Agricultural
Tractors 180 hp                  100        80        500      50,000    40,000
Plough                           600       150         30      18,000      4,500
Cultivators                      270        80         35       9,450      2,800
Sowing machines                  300       120         25       7,500      3,000
Cereal harvesters (combina)    350         150        390     136,500    58,500
Fodders combines                  80        50        200      16,000    10,000
Maize and sunflower
harvester equipment              90        35        120      10,800      4,200
Straw baling press               170        85         45-      7,650      3,600
Spraying machine                  70        32         35       2,450      1,120
5 tons trailer                   250        50         36       9,000      1,800
312,350   146,020
Total                               458,370



- 55-                             ANNEX 3
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
List of Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Estimated    Estimated Cost
Qluantity            Unit           '000 lei
Mostistea Calmatui   '000 lei    Mostistea Calmatui
Item and Specifications
Wheeled tractors of 65 hp                  15,       10           175         2,625      1,750
Wheeled tractors of 65 hp
all wheel drive                           15        10          190          2,850      1,900
Track type dozer 65 hp                     10        16           380         3,800      6,080
Scraper 3 m3 with tractor                   5         5           285         1,425      1,425
Canal cleaning and profiling
equipment on 65 wheeled tractor           15         5          135          2,025        675
Track type hydraulic excavator
o.6 m3                                    20        10          570         11,400      5,700
Motor graders 180 hp                        2         2           850         1,700      1,700
Truck crane 8 ton                          2i         1          820          1,640        820
ilobile crane 12.5 ton                      2         1        1,250          2,500      1,250
Mobile workshop van                        15         5           150         2,250        750
Miobile workshop on Diesel truck            2         1           980         1,960        980
Tipping trailer 5 ton                      1()        5            36           360        180
Tractor (motor lorry) 215 CP                1         1          650            650        650
Trailer 40 ton                              1         1          350            350        350
Tow boat 500  hp                            1         1        2,000          2,000      2,000
Parallel lathe 560 x 300 mm                 IL        1          240            240        240
Parallel lathe 400 x 2000 mm                IL        1          170            170        170
Milling machine 330 x 1525 mm               1         1          190            190        190
Shaping Planning machine
with 425 stroke                             L        1           42             42         42
Drilling machine 40 mm                      :L        1           52             52         52
Pneumatic hammer 65 kg                       L        1           65             65         65
Electric welding set                       10         2          656         6,560      1,312
Fixed wireless telephone                  150        50           19         2,850         950
47,704    29,231
Total                          76,935



-56 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
List of Equipment to be Procured
Following International Competitive Bidding
Estimated   Estimated
Unit    Quantity  Unit Cost   Total Cost /1
Construction Equipment                                              Lei '000    Lei '000
Dragline 1.0 m3                                  No          20     1,000        20,000
Motor scraper 10-11 m3                           No          30     2,900        87,000
Track hydraulic excavator telescopic arm
120 hp                                        No           6      1,040         6,240
Track hydr excavator 2.5 - 3.0 m3                No           3     2,150         6,450
Truck crane 25 ton                               No         10      2,000        20,000
Truck crane 40 ton                               No           5     4,450        22,250
Truck crane 60 ton                              No           4      6,680        26,720
Truck crane 100 ton                              No           1     8,900         8,900
Motor scraper 24.0 m3                            No          10     3,200        32,000
Concrete pump (stationary) 60 m3/hr             No          17        900        15,300
Concrete pump (truck mounted)                   No          15      1,260        18,900
Tipping truck 17 ton                            No         120        580        78,000
Casing pipe for drilling average dia. 20.5"   m.         2,800          1         2,800
Wheeled dozer 180 hp                             No          70     1,400        98,000
Motor grader 180 hp                              No         20        920        18,400
Wheeled loader 2.5 m3                            No         40      1,040        41,600
Field radio-telephone system                     -          -          -          6,000
Spare parts                                     -           -          -         40,000
Sub-total                                                                 548,560
Laboratory and Auxiliary Equipment               -          -          -          8,300
Sub-total                                  -           -          -         8,300
Farm Equipment
Agricultural tractor 65 hp                       No        820         80        65,600
Agricultural tractor 180 hp                      No        180        540        97,200
Cereal combine                                  No         500        420      210,000
Fodder combine                                  No         130        225        30,000
Sub-total                                                                 402,800
Construction Materials
Asbestos cement pipe                             -          -          -        100,000
Sub-total                                                                 100,000
Permanent Equipment
Pumps, motors and auxiliary equipment
for main pumping stations                                                    200,000
Sub-total                                                                 200,000
TOTAL                                                                      1,259,660
or US$70.0 million
/1 Including contingencies.



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Mostistea - Cropping Pattern and Estimated Water Requirements
Estimated Total
Area                          Estimated Net Crop Water Requirements                  Water Requirement
Crop                    ha          /      APR   MAY    JUN       JUL      AUG    SEPT    OCT  Of one   Of one  JULY   Annual
ha of    ha of    /3
______------ m3/ha                 _Qr     Project Area
------- ------ ------ ---   M     / a    ---- ------        !=--- Mm,3 …- --
Wheat                 24,740    15.9       300   800       -       -        -        -      400   1,500      238      -       37.1
Barley                  5,567      3.6     300   800      -        -        -        -     400   1,500        54      -        8.4
Maize grain            70,201    45.0       -    400    500    1,000    900          -       -    2,800   1,260    70.2   196.6
Vegetables             6,340      4.0       -    500    900    1,700    900         500     -    4,500       180    10.8    28.5
Soya beans             7,731      5.0       -    500    700    1,400    400          -      -    3,000       150    10.8    23.2
Sunflower              7,731      5.0       -    500    500        600    500        -      -    2,100       105      4.6    16.2
Sugar beet            10,824      6.9       -    500    500    1,400    700         400     -    3,500       242    15.2    37.9
Alfalfa (lst year)    4,368       2.8       -    500    500    1,000  1,000         500     -    3,500        98      4.4    15.3
Alfalfa (old)         13,105      8.4       -    500    700    1,400  1,400         500      -    4,500      378    18.3    59.0
Orchards                  461     0.3       -      -     700    1,400    700         -      -    2,800         8      0.6      1.3
Vineyards                 327     0.2       -      -     700    1,400    700         -      -    2,800         6      0.5      0.9
Natural pastures          456     0.3       -    500    700    1,400  1,400         500      -    4,500       14      0.6      2.1
Potatoes               4,020      2.6       -    700  1,400    1,400    700          -      -    4,200       109      5.6    16.9
Total           155,871   100.0
/4
Maize Silage -        26,441    17.0        -      -       -        700  1,400      700      -    2,800      476    18.5    74.0
/5
Net Water Requirement-                       59   516    470    1,027    944        224      78       -    3,318   160.1   517.4
Gross Water Requirements/                    83   727    662    1,446  1,330        315    110        -    4,673   225.5   728.7
/1 As a percentage of cultivated project area.
7T Project area is sown with crops in the proportion indicated in Column 3.
/3 Month of maximum demand.
74 Double cropping after wheat and barley.
7W For one project hectare sown with croDS indicated in Column 3.
/6 Overall efficiency 71%.
November 1978.                    |
F!>



01...0 >         z  tAt   to    to    t O  O  X
.-ott             tO -c              tOw w   i b  -pa3 
to   to w0 p0.f
tot5Otro 01        ltOO
.1001--C C         300
to to ott
000                 0 DC               tl)A0
0.  'r.                     *    L.tOOO.0t   to. s>>    :
tD n t
-.  to           0101             t53 o    oooon
0                Do  I              r rt 
I.° -.        8-.               00       0 0 8 8                                    -  
kD~ ~      ~~ o                                   5    s      = 
.0.0             OO 0  0  00           i.. I  1 rr       =.    
tbOO~C 00 00                 0,o              t
vs o   woo | I I I b    S                 I.e          -    0
s.       c.      
0.00                         g8        rf       
O                0  0  00       
o           o1      0 o  10 a oo    o o             o 
10 r.
000 00                      0 t   oo         to
010t             01001.000            r  o
to    CI-I
,t.0                    .       c      0    '1 t
0.01             aZu.   ¢.-t  tota r c  o  tOt-I
rtto to'                              144t rc  l      
to--~~~~~~~ 00W
z~~~~~~~                                                  00q
t ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ot                            41et1;.o.O             o     t



- 59-  .ANEX 5
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
RCMANIA
Mostistea - Cost Estimate
Estimated Cost                    Estimated Cost              Foreign
Item                                            Local    foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total         Exchange
---- Lei Million------           -----US$ Million ---------           %
Pumping Stations & Reservoirs
Civil Works
Main pumping stations                         375.4      118.6      494.0        20.9        6.5       27.4         24
Power supply                                  -60.0       60.0      120.0         3.3        3.4        6.7         50
Widening and construction canals               75.0       25.0      100.0         4.2        1.4        5.6         25
Gated structures on canals                     25.5        8.5       34.0         1.4        0.5        1.9         25
Pumped reservoirs                             223.6      131.4      355.0        12.4        7.3       19.7         37
Subtotal                                  759.5      343.5   1,103.0          42.2       19.1      61.3          31
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation of communications                  171.7       30.3      202.0         9.5        1.7       11.2         15
Land Compensation                             568.0       -         568.0        31.6       -          31.6         -
Engineering and Administration                 99.0       11.0      110.0         5.5        0.6        6.1         10
Egquipment
Operation and maintenance                      74.4       49.6      124.0         4.1        2.8        6.9         40
Irrigation and Drainage System
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                         122.8       38.8      161.6         6.8        2.2        9.0         24
Pressure pumping stations                     123.6       39.0      162.6         6.9        2.1        9.0         24
Mobile pumping stations                       103.3       11.5      114.8         5.7        0.7        6.4         10
Power supply                                   74.7       74.7      149.4         4.2        4.1        8.3         50
Canal excavation                              145.1       48.4      193.5         8.1        2.7       10.8         25
Canal lining                                  184.2       37.7      221.9        10.2        2.1       12.3         17
Canal structures                               79.8       26.6      106.4         4.4        1.5        5.9         25
Underground network                           476.7      245.5      722.2        26.5       13.6       40.1         34
Sprinkler equipment                           120.3      120.4      240.7         6.7        6.7       13.4         50
Subtotal                               1,430.5      642.6   2,073.1         79.5       35.7      115.2         31
Drainage Works
Excavation of drains                          146.0       32.1      178.1         8.1        1.8        9.9         18
Drain structures                               26.4        6.6       33.0         1.5        0.3        1.8         20
Pumping stations                                8.3        5.5       13.8         0.5        0.3        0.8        40
Tile drainage                                  22.3        6.6       28.9         1.2        0.4        1.6         23
Subtotal                                  203.0        50.8     253.8         11.3        2.8       14.1        20
Soil Reclamation Works
Land levelling                                 76.7       13.5       90.2         4.3        0.7        5.0         15
Soil erosion control                           34.6        6.1       40.7         1.9        0.4        2.3        15
Subtotal                                   111.3       19.6     130.9          67.2       1.1       7.3         15
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation of communications                    6.2        1.1        7.3         0.3        0.1        0.4        15
Hydrogeological wells                           1.9        0.4        2.3         0.1       -           0.1        15
Operation and Maintenance facilities            4.7        0.8        5.5         0.3       -           0.3        15
Subtotal                                   12.8       2.3       15.1         0.7        0.1        0.8         15
Land Compensation                              48.8       -         48.8          2.7       -           2.7        -
Engineering and Administration                178.1       19.8      197.9         9.9        1.1       11.0         10
Equipment
Operation and maintenance                      28.6       19.1       47.7         1.6        1.1        2.6        40
Farm machinery                                199.9      112.5     312.4         11.1        6.2      17.4         36
Subtotal                                 228.5      131.6      360.1        12.7        7.3       20.0         37
Contingencies
Physical /1                                   257.0       91.4      348.4        14.3        5.1      19.4         26
Price /2                                      126.2      319.3      445.5         7.0       17.7      24.7         72
Subto tal                                383.2      41.0.7     793.9        21.3       22-:8      44.1         52
Total                                  4,268.8   1,711.8   5,980.6         237.2       952.      332.3         29
/1  At 7.5% of Irrigation, Drainage and Soil Reclamation Works;
and 5.0% of Miscellaneous works, Land compensation, Engineering and Administration and Equipment.
/2 For Local Costs compounded at 1% per annum. For Foreign Costs compounded at 6% per annum for
Equipment and compounded at 77. per annum for Civil Works.



- 60 -
APPRAISAL OF                                           ANNEX 5
Table 2
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Calmatui - Cost Estimate
Estimated Cost                Estimated Cost            Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange
----Lei Million--                   US$ MiLlion--=-%
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                49.2      15.5     64.7         2.7      0.9       3.6         24
Pressure pumping stations            28.2       8.9     37.1         1.6      0.5       2.1         24
Electric power supply                 6.1       6.2     12.3         0.3      0.4       0.7         50
Canals                               87.2      29.1   L16.3          4.8      L.6       6.4         25
Underground network                  85.8      44.2    130.0         4.7      2.5       7.2         34
Sprinkler equipment                  20.6      20.6     41.2         1.1      1.1       2.2         50
Subtotal                         277.1    124.5    401.6         15.2      7.0     22-.2         31
Drainage Works
Excavation of surface drains        158.9      34.7    193.6         8.8      1.9      10.7         18
Structures on drains                 54.9      13.7     68.6         3.1      0.7       3.8         20
Tile drainage                        92.6      27.7    120.3         5.2      1.5       6.7         23
Subtotal                         306.'      76.L1    3           17.1              2177  Tl-.2   20
Reclamation of Saline Soil
Land levelling                       28.7       7.2     35.9         1.6      0.4       2.0         20
Deep ripping and plowing             20.5       5.1     25.6         1.1      0.3       1.4         20
Soil amendments                       8.6       2.2     10.8         0.5      0.1       0.6         20
Leaching                             32.9       8.2     41.1         1.8      0.5       2.3         20
Subtotal                          90.7      22.7    TT37          5.0      1.3    6 .3           20
Miscellaneous Works
Operation and Maintenance             4.3       0.8      5.1         0.2      0.1       0.3         15
facilities
Relocation of communications          0.8       0.2      1.0         0.1      -         0.1         15
Hydrogeological wells                 1.3       0.2      1.5         0.1      -         0.1         15
Subtotal                           6.4      1.2       7.6         0.4      0.1      0.5          15
Land Compensation                    22.8       -       22.8         1.3      -         1.3          -
Engineering and Administration       78.6       8.7     87.3         4.4      0.5       4.9         10
Equipment
Operation and maintenance            17.6    i1.6       29.2         1.0      o.6       1.6         40
Farm machinery                       93.4      52.6    146.0         5.2      2.9       8.1         36
Contingencies
Physical /1                          61.6      20.4     82.0         3.4      1.2      4.6          25
Price /2                             33.4      78.1    111.5         1.9      4.3       6.2         70
Subtotal                          95.0     98.5    193.5         5.3       5.5     ln.8          51
Total                            998.0    395.9  L,38.9         54.9      22.0     76.9          29
A At 7.5%o of Trrigation, Drainage and Soil Reclamation works; and 5%o of Miscellaneous works,
Land compensation, Engineering and Administration, and Equipment.
A For local costs compounded at lo per annum. For foreign cost compounded at 6% per annum
for equipment and compounded at 7% per annum for civil works.



- 61 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Mostistea - Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
Estimated Annual Cost
ITEM                                                          (Lei '000) (US$ '000)
OPERATING PERSONNEL
Floating Pumping Stations                                    7,750             430
Pumped Storages                                              5,325             296
Pressure Pumping                                             9,116             507
Sub-total                                                22,191            1,233
MAINTENANCE OF WORKS
Floating Pumping Station                                    11,335             630
Pumped Storages                                             14,200             789
Federal Canal                                                4,690             260
Pressure Pumping Stations                                   13,336             741
Irrigation Works                                            23,263           1,292
Drainage Works                                               7,679             427
Sub-total                                                74,503            4,139
POWER SUPPLY
Floating Pumping Stations                                   34,111           1,895
Pressure Pumping Stations                                   56,634           3,146
Sub-total                                                90,745            5,041
MISCELLANEOUS
Other Costs                                                  3,529             196
Indirect Costs                                              22,984          1,277
Sub-total                                                26,513            1,473
Total                                                   213,952           11,886
Calmatui - Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
OPERATING PERSONNEL                                            1,085              60
MAINTENANCE OF WORKS
Pumping Stations                                             2,898             161
Irrigation Works                                             4,066             226
Surface Drainage Works                                       8,066             448
Tile Drainage Works                                          2,527             140
Reclamation works                                            9,000             500
Other works                                                    253              14
Sub-total                                                26,810            1,489
POWER SUPPLY                                                  17,200             956
MISCELLANEOUS
Indirect Costs                                               2,325             129
Total                                                     47,429           2,634
November 1978



APPRAISAL OF
.:OTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMAN IA
Mostistea - Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Estimated Cost            1979                1980               1981                 1982                 1983                1984
Total   Foreigtal F          Foign   Totl   Foreign                    Total   Foreigntal al   Foreign   Total   Foreign
----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- Lei     millio n  --------- ---------------------------------------------
Pa,moing Stations and Re.ervoirs
Civil Works
Main pumping stations                         494.0    118.6        24.1       5.8      73.2      17.6      40.2        9.6      76.4      18.3    147.3        35.4    132.8       31.9
Power snpply                                  120.0      60.0       5.9        2.9      17.8       8.9       9.8       4.9       18.6       9.3      35.7       17.9      32.2      16.1
Widening and constructing canals              100.0      25.0        2.2       0.6       8.2       2.0       8.2        2.0      18.7       4.7       22.4       5.6      40.3       10.1
Gated structures on canals                     34.0       8.5        0.8       0.2       2.8       0.7       2.8        0.7       6.3       1.6        7.6       1.9      13.7        3.4
Pumped reservoirs                             355.0    131.4       50.0       18.5    115.0       42.5      35.0      13.0       40.0      14.8      65.0       24.1      50.0      18.5
Subtotal                             1,103.0    343.5        83.0      28.0    217.0       71.7      96.0       30.2    160.0       48.7    278.0        84.9    269.0       80.0
Miscellaneous Works
Relacatisa of -ommusications                  202.0      30.3      10.0        1.5      26.2       3.9      65.6       9.9       39.1       5.9      23.6        3.5      37.5       5.6
Land Copensation                              568.0       -        28.0        -        73.8       -       184.4       -        109.9       -        66.4        -       105.5       -
Engineering and Adninistration                110.0      11.0      25.0        2.5      20.0       2.0      20.0       2.0       20.0       2.0       20.0       2.0       5.0       0.5
EqRipment
Operation and maistenance                     124.0      49.6      24.0        9.6      20.0       8.0      20.0      -8.0       25.0      10.0  _20.0           8.0      15.0       6.0
Irrigation and Drainage System
Irrigation Works
Madi  pamping starties                        161.6      38.8       38.2       9.2      34.0       8.1      11.1        2.7      17.5       4.2       31.7       7.6      29.1        7.0
Pressure psmping stations                     162.6      39.0      38.4        9.2      34.3       8.2      11.1       2.7       17.6       4.2      31.9        7.7      29.3       7.0
Mobile puspieg statioes                       114.8      11.5       27.1       2.7      24.2       2.4       7.9        0.8      12.4        1.2      22.5       2.3      20.7        2.1
Pawer supply                                  149.4      74.7      25.0       12.5      20.0      10.0      30.0      15.0       35.0      17.5      19.4        9.7      20.0      10.0
Canal excavation                              193.5      48.4      45.8       11.4     40.8       10.2      13.2       3.3       21.0       5.3       37.9       9.5      34.8       8.1
Canal lining                                  221.9      37.7      52.5        8.9      46.8       7.9      15.2       2.6       24.0       4.1      43.5        7.4      39.9       6.8
Canal structures                              106.4      26.6      25.1        6.3      22.4       5.6       7.3       1.8       11.5       2.9       20.9       5.2      19.2       4.8
Underground network                           722.2    245.5    170.7         58.0    152.2       51.8      49.5      16.8       78.2      26.6    141.6       48.1    130.0        44.2
Sprinkler equipment                           240.7    120.4       56.9       28.4      50.7      25.3      16.5       8.3       26.1      13.1       47.2      23.6      43.3      21.7
Subtotal                                2,073.1    642.6    479.7        146.6    425.4      129.5    161.8        54.0    243.3        79.1    396.6    121.1    366.3         112.3
Drainage Works
Excavation of drains                          178.1      32.1      48.5       8.7       45.6       8.2      34.2       6.2       38.1       6.9      11.8        2.1       -         -
Drai  structures                              33.0       6.6       9.0        1.8       8.4       1.7       6.3       1.2        7.1       1.4       2.2        0.5       -
PPuping utahans.                               13.8       5.5       3.7        1.5       3.5       1.4       2.6       1.0        2.9       1.2       0.9        0.4       --
Tile drainage                                  28.9       6.6       7.9        1.8       7.4       1.7       5.6       1.3        6.2       1.4        1.9       0.4       -
Subtetal                                  253.8       50.8      69.1      13.8      64.9      13.0      48.7        9.7      54.3       10.9      16.8       3.4        -         -
SRil Reclamation Works
Land levellitg                                 90.2      13.5      21.3        3.2      19.0       2.8       6.2       0.9        9.8       1.5      17.7        2.7      16.2       2.4
Soil erotioe central                           40.7       6.1       -          -        13.7       2.1                 -         15.0       2.2      12.0        1.8            -
Subtotal                                  130.9       19.6      21.3       3.2      32.2       4.9        6.2       0.9      24.8        3.7      29.7       4.5      16.2        2.4
Miscellaneous Works
Relonatian of communications                    7.3       1.1       -         -         3.0        0.5       -         -          -         -         -          -         4.3       0.6
Hydrogeelogical wells                           2.3       0.4       0.4       0.1        0.4       0.1       0.5       0.1        0.4       0.1       0.3        -         0.3       -
operation and nainten.nne facilItIes            5.5       0.8       2.0       0.3        1.5       0.2       2.0       0.3
Subtotal1 .                                                                                                                          __  __1_      __     _ _ _
Suttas 1   2.3       2.4       0.4       4.9       0.8        2.5       0.4       0.4        0.1       0.3       -          4.6       0.6
Land Compensation                              48.8       -         7.5       -         12.5       -         6.5       -          3.5       -        14.5        -         4.3       -
Engineering and Adniniatration                197.9      19.8      64.0       6.4       19.0       1.9      67.4       6.7      25.8        2.6      13.7        1.4       8.0       0.8
Euipmsent
Operation and maintenance                      47.7      19.1       -         -        12.0        4.8      12.0       4.8      12.0        4.8      11.7       4.7        -         -
Farm mschinery                                312.4    112.5        -         -        80.0       28.8      80.0      28.8      80.0       28.8      72.4      26.1        -         -
360.1    131.6        _         :        92.0       33.6      92.0      33.6      92.0       33.6      84.1      30.8        -         -
Cnont incaoene
PhysicaI                                      348.4      91.4      57,0      15.4      68.9       18.9      46.4      10.2      52.0       13.4      66.2      18.2       57.9      15.3
Price                                        445.5    319.3        11.1       7.9      42.2      30.3       45.8      29.4      77.1       54.4    131.3       96.8    138.0       100.5
Subtotal                                  793.9    410.7        68.1      23.3    111.1       49.2      92.2      39.6    129.1        67.8    197.5    115.0    195.9         115.8
Total                                   5.980.6  1.711.8    882.1    235.3  1.119.5    318.5    863.3            195.0    927.2       264.4  1,16i.2    374.6  1,027.3         324.0
Ocmt,br 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTTSTEA ANP CALMATrrl IPRIGATION AR1  DRATNAGE PROJECT
OMANIA
Callnatui - Estimated Schedule of rbxpenditure
Estimated Cost            1980                1981                 1982                 1983                1984                 1985
Total   Foreign    Total   Foreign    Total   Foreign    Total   Foreign    Total   Foreign    Total   Foreign    Total   Foreign
---  - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - --  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - -(Lei    M-illion) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -
Irrigation Works
Main oumoing stations                 64.7      15.5        -         -        28.5       6.8       36.2       8.7        -        -          -         -          -         -
Pressure oumning stations             37.1       8.9        -        -         16.4       3.9       20.7       5.0        -        -          -         -          -         -
Electric cower suocly                 12.3       6.2        -         -         5.4       2.7        6.9       3.5        -        -          -         -          -         -
'anals                               116.3      29.1        -        -         51.8      12.8       65.0     16.3         -        -          -         -          -         -
-Tnderground network                 130.0      44.2        -         -        57.4      19.5       72.6      24.7                 -          -         -          -         -
Coein'^ler equionent                  41.2      20.6        -        -         18.2       9.1       23.0     11.5         -        -          -         -          -         -
Subtotal                          740l.6    124.         -        -        177.2      54.8     227.          7        _         _          _         _          _         _
rrainage Works
Excavation of surface drains         193.6      34.7        7.4       1.3      59.6      10.7       22.4       4.0       39.1      7.0       41.3       7.,       23.8       4.3
Structures on drains                  68.6      13.7        2.6      0.5       21.1       142        7.9       1.6      13.9       2.8       14.7       2.9        8.4       1.7
Tile drainage                        120.3      27.7        -        -         62.8      14.4       57.5     13.3         -        -          -         -          -         -
Subtotal                          372.5  10.l l. 0                1 4 3.    29.3               -27T7  1 8T.9         53.0       9.8       56.0  1 0.3          32.2   6.0
Pecla ation of Saline Soil
Land levelling                        35.9       7.2        -        -          -         -         16.9       3.4       19.0      3.8        -         -          -         -
-kl W4ng           25         7. '   -             -          -        -         12         2.4'    1.O        2O.(        -        -          -         -
Soil amendments                       10.8       2.2        -        -          -         -          5.1       1.0        5.7       1.1       -         -          -         -
Leaching                               4.1       8.2        -        -          -         -         19.3       3.9      21.8       4.4        -         -          -         _
Suibtotal                         113. 71    22.7       -                    -        -_         53.3     10.7         0.1     12.0             -         -       
Miscellaneous Works
Operation and maintenance
facilities                            5.1       0.8        -        -          0.5       0.1        0.2      -          2.0       0.3        0.4       0.1        2.0       0.3
Pelo,at,ion of communications          l.0       0.2        -        -          0.2       -          0.2      0.1         0.4      0.1        0.2       -          -         -
Hyd-ogeological wells                  1.5       0.2        -         -         0.6       0.1        0.3       -          0.3      0.1        0.3       -          _         -
Subtotal                            7.T       1.2       -         -          1.3       0.2       0.7       0.1        2.7       0.5        0.9       0.1        2.0    *0.3
Land Compensation                     22.8       -          0.5       -         7.5       -          1.5       -        10.7       -          2.6             -              -
Engineering and Administration        87.3       8.7       13.1      1.3       28.2       2.8       24.1       2.4       15.3      1.5        4.0       0.4        2.6       0.3
Fquiprment
Operation and maintenance             29.2      11.6        -        -         14.6       5.8       14.6       5.8        -        -          -         -          -         -
rarm machinery                       146.o      52.6        -        _         73.0      26.3       73.0     26.3        -         _          _         _          _         _
Subtotal                          175.2     772   _               -       *T           2.1        7.      32.1   3              - _   _    _ _
r0ontingencies
Physical                              82.0      20.4        1.5       0.3      30.3       8.1       33.1      9.1        9.9       1.7        4.6       0.8        2.6       0,4
0r toe                               111.5      78.1        0.7       0.4      31.4      22.6      50.0      36.9       14.9       9.1        8.4       5.2        6.1       3,9
0ubtotal                          193.5      98.5        2.2      0.7       61.7      30.7      83.1      46.0       24.8      10.8       13.0      T77         8.7       4>3
btal                           1_383.9    395.9        25.8       3.8     507.0   149.9        5r2 .5    179.9     166.6      34.6       76.5    I1,.8        45.5      iO.9
1- >'



-~ 64 -ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                              at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                  -
December  31, 1979                                  6.0
March      31, 1980                                12.0
June       30, 1980                                17.9
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                 23.8
December  31, 1980                                 31.6
March      31, 1981                                39.5
June       30, 1981                                47.3
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                 55.0
December  31, 1981                                 57.0
March      31, 1982                                59.0
June       30, 1982                                61.0
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                 63.0
December  31, 1982                                 64.5
March      31, 1983                                66.0
June       30, 1983                                68.0
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                 70.0
December  31, 1983                                 70.0
March      31, 1984                                70.0
June       30, 1984                                70.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                 70.0
December  31, 1984                                 70.0
March      31, 1985                                70.0
June       30, 1985                                70.0
November 1978



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table 1
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Prices Used for Economic Analysis
,_____  Unit Price
_Domestic                  Economic
Output                             --- ---------lei/ton-----------------
Contract    Average
Crops                               (CAP)    (CAP & IASs)
Wheat                               1,370        1,275            2,261-2,779 /1
Barley                              1,100        1,055            1,787-2,075 /1
Maize (grain)                       1,150        1,105            2,012-2,343 /1
Maize (silage)                         80           80                     80
Sunflower                           2,030        2,030            7,218-6,696 /1
Soybean                             3,600        3,600            5,201--6,571 /1
Alfalfa (hay)                         500          470                    470
Sugar beet                            350          350              602-895 /]L
Sorghum green mass                     80           80                   80
Peas                                2,100        2,010               2,010
Beans                               3,300        3,210               3,210
Vegetables /2                       1,500        1,500               1,500
Potatoes                              900          885                  885
Vetch                                 110          110                  110
Vineyards                           3,900        3,900               3,900
Orchards /3                         2,400        2,400               3,264
Natural Pastures                      110          110                  110
Alfalfa (green)                       500          500                  500
By-Products
Wheat straw                           150          140                  140
Barley straw                          150          140                  140
Maize stalks                          120          120                  120
Sunflower stems                        40           40                   40
Soybean straw                         120          120                  120
Sugar beet tops                       100          100                  100
/1 Prices shown are for l179-199U.
/2 Mainly tomatoes (also including green peppers, eggplant).
/3 Mainly peaches and apricots.
October 1978



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF                               Table 2
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
Prices Used for Economic Analysis
Input                                               Unit Price
Unit         Domestic         Border
Seed                                             ---------lei---------
Wheat                              ton            1,860          1,860
Barley                              '             1,520          1,520
Maize (grain)                                     2,730          2,730
Maize (silage)                      "             2,520          2,520
Soybean                             "             7,410          7,410
Sunflower                           "            10,800         10,800
Peas                                "             5,680          5,680
Beans                               "             5,680          5,680
Sugar beet                          "            28,300         28,300
Alfalfa                             "            37,800         37,800
Sorghum green mass                  "             1,150          1,150
Potatoes                            "             1,400          1,400
Fertilizer                    ton active substance
Urea                                              2,535    5,617-7,712 /1
Super phosphate (granulated)                      3,800    4,440-6,452 il /2
Potash (in complex)                               2.,00    2,267-2,977 /1 /2
Manure                                              10        41-56 /1
Plant Protection
Herbicides
Icedin                             ton           43,880         43,880
Sutan                              kl            56,750         56,750
Pitezin                            ton           48,000         48,000
Balan                              kl            44,000         44,000
Treflan                            kl            51,000         51,000
Ro Neet                            kl            50,000         50,000
Venzar                             ton          1707400       170,400
Aretit                             kl            37,900         37,900
Pesticides
Lindatax 3                         ton            4,330         4,330
Lindatax 20                        kl            2/4,940       24,940
Betanal                            kl          121,160        121,160
Heclotox                           ton            1,730         1,730
Dithane                            ton          30,200         30,200
Topsin                             ton         115,000        115,000
Oxychlorure Cu                     ton          25,830         25,830
S04CU                              ton          18,250         18,250
Labor                               day              -iS            75
/1 Prices shown are for 1979-1990.
/2  Border price for phosphate derived from world price of TSP and for potash
from world price of muriate of potash.
October 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALHOATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROKM&IA
Economic Cost and Benefit Streas. With and Without thn Pro jeot
All Proiect Components
Yearo     £        2         3        4         5         N        7         8        9        10        ii      12-14      15        16      17-24      25        26      27-30      31        32       33-40
1990-                        1995-                        2005-                        2015-
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989     1902      1993      1994     2002      2003      2004      2012     2013      2014      2018
With Project
Costs
Investnent                             094    1,058    1,254    1,246    1,103          952       39       -         -                  -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Anneal p-od-ction                       689      700       877       940    1,047    1,136    1,339    1,382    1,403    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414    1,414
Operation & noioteniao..
and replacement                       -         33        76      129       183       229      267       268      268       268       268      268       312       525      268       312       525       268      312       525       268
Total Coots                         1,583    1,791    2.207    2,315    2,333    2,317    1,645    1.650    1,671    1.682    1,682    1,682    1,726    1,939    1.682    1,726    1.939    1.682    1,726    1,939    1.682
Benefits
Annual production                     1,408    1,457    1,839    2,163    2,488    2,814    3,143    3,519    3,687    3,772    3,780    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786    3,786
Flood protection                        -           1        3        4         8        11        14       16        16       16        16        16       16        16        16       16        16        16        16       16        16
ToLo o  -eneei-                     1,400    1,458    1,842    2,167    2,496    2.825    3.157    3,535    3,703    3,788    3,796    3,802    3,802    3                3802    3,802    3.802    3,802    3.802    3.802    3,802
Withoot Pro jectc
Coeti                                     689      700       703       706      717       730      741       741       741      742       742      742       742       742       742      742       742       742       742      742       742
Benefits                                1.408    1,457    1,504    1,512    1.531    1,551    1,570    1,574    1,577    1,581    1.585    1.588    1,588    1,588    1,588    1.588    1,588    1,588    1,588    1,588    1,588
Inorensontol Costs                         894    1,091    1,504    1,609    1,616    1,587         904       909       930      940        940     949       984    1,197       940       984    1,197        940       984    1,197       940
Inecreoentol Benefits                      -           1      338      655       965    1,274    1,587    1,961    2,126    2,207    2,211    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214    2,214
Net Incremental Benefits                  (894)  (1,090)  (1,166)    (954)    (651)    (313)        683    1,052    1,196    1,267    1,271    1,274    1,230    1,017    1,274    1,230    1,017    1,274    1,230    1,017    1,274
Economic Rate of Return                       X
(a) Basin RBn
All Project Cempoeents                                 15
MaotCstes                                             15
C.Imatni Irrignted                                    13
Calmat i Rainfsd                                      20
Caimatfi-All Areas                                    15
(b) RAte of Development Increased to                      13
sin years  (3 years for Calnatui Rainfed)
(c) Projected Mates Yields Reduced by 20%                 11
(d) Prices of Tradeables Reduced by 20%                   11
Ce) (h) and (c) c-b ined                                  10
(f) VegetabIes Treated as Tradeables                      17
(g) Meie Grain as Second Crop (2 not of 5 yeats)         14
(3 ent of 5 year.)       15
(4 oat of 5 years)       16
(5 net of 5 years)       16                                                            November 1978



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
RCMANIA
Mostistea - Annual Production Costs based on Border Prices of Inputs
(Lei/ha)
Crop     Subtotal                                                             Subtotal
/1  Protec-      Fixed       Trans-                                                 Variable
Yield    Seed   Fertilizer        tion       Costs       portation      Machinery   Labor   Miscellaneous   Costs /2            Total
Present/Future Without Project
Th eat                               2.6       409      633-  890      171   1,213-1,470       87              999          54         325           1,465       2,678- 2,935
Barley                               2.65      243      582-  820      193   1,018-1,256    102                971          68         311          1 452        2,470- 2,708
Maize Grain                          3.35       41      517-  727      327      885-1,095    140               666         498         355           1.659       2,544- 2,754
Peas                                 1.35      568      195-  282      541   1,304-1,391       73           1,216          175         424          1,888        3,192- 3,7V9
Beans                                1.05      568      300-  423      541   1,409-1,532       56            1,096         169         408          1.729        3,138- 3,261
Vegetables                          15.0    1,542   1,038-1,455        718   3,298-3,715    279              1,041      11,869       3,738         16,927       20,225-20,642
Soybean                              1.2       519      368-  519      312   1,199-1,350       58           1,159          134         379          1.730        2,929- 3,080
Sunflower                            1.5       108      685-  946      256   1,049-1,310       50              849         138         300          1.337        2,386- 2,647
Sugar beet                          25.0       170      800-1,110   1,843   2,813-3,123    412                 901       2,012         897          4,222        7,035- 7,345
Alfalfa (hay)                        4.8       189      481-  674      272      942-1,135    172             1,068          86         127           1 453       2,395- 2,588
Vetch                               20.25      347      280-  385      -        627-  732    349               701          88         240          1,378        2,005- 2,110
Vineyards                            4.0       -      1,751-2,418   2,525   4,276-4,943        83           2,586        3,905         412          6.986       11,262-11,929
Orchards                             4.2       227L2 1,951-2,701       690   2,868-3,618    866                716       6,676         869          9,127       11,995-12,745
Natural Pastures                     4.3       _     -                 -                      -                 73          10           3              86          86-86
Future With Project
Wheat                                5.0       409    1,188-1,664      171    1,786-2,244    160             1,591         216         468          2,435        4,203- 4,679
Barley                               6.0       243      968-1,359      193    1,404-1,795    225            1,830          246         490          2.791        4,195- 4,568
Maize grain                          8.0        41    1,204-1,680      327    1,572-2,048    325             1,064       1,138         685          3.212        4,784- 5,260
Vegetables                          25.0    3,480    1,177-2,181   2,838    7,495-8,499    597              2,421       16,996       4,607         24.621       32,116-33,120
Potatoes                            30.0    3,150   2,054-3,143   1,175    6,379-7,468    896               2,133       2,286        1,200          6.515       12,894-13,983
Soybeans                             2.5       519      529-  750      312    1,360-1,581    ill            1,722          322         485          2.640        4,000- 4,221
Sunflower                            2.7       108    1,181-1,642      256    1,545-2,006      82           1,132          275         391          1.880        3,425- 3,886
Sugar beet                          50.0       170    2,063-2,870   1,843    4,076-4,883    832             1,054       3,035        1,523          6.444       10,520-11,327
Alfalfa                             11.0       189      792-1,111      272    1,253-1,572    304            2,100          404          75          2.883        4,136- 4,455
Vineyards                            6.0       -      1,751-2,418   2,525    4,276-4,943    119             2,586       5,262          525         8§492        12,768-13,435
Orchards                             6.0       227-/  1,951-2,701      690    2,868-3,618    898              716       7,644        1,119         10,377       13,245-13,995
Natural nastures                    30.0       -      1,708-2,373      -      1,708-2,373       7              195         246         168            616        2,324- 2,989
Maize silage                        35.0        63      472-  657      227      762-  947    674               953         405           9                       2,803- 2,988
/1  Fertilizer costs based on Bank projections 1979-1990.  For detailed derivation of
'fertilizer quantities and costs see Project Implementation File.                                                                                                              X
/2  Includes Fixed costs/ha+Variable costs/ton.                                                                    ~0m
/3  Props (100 pieces) and young plants (10 pieces).                                                                                               November 1978                    , 



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
RCMANIA
Calmatui - Annual Production Costs Based on Border Prices of Input
(Lei/ha)
Crop      Subtotal                                                                Subtotal
/1   Pr-.tec-      Fixed         Trans-                                                   Variable
Yield          Seed   Fertilizer        tion        Costs         portation       Machinery   Labor   Miscellaneous   Costs /2          Total
Present/Future Without Project
Wheat                                1.8           409        633-  890      171       1,213-1,470         63             817         56         280           1,216      2,429- 2,686
Barley                               2.0           243       582-  820       193       1,018-1,256        79              809         59         290          1fTfTF      2,255- .2,493
Ma-ze Grain                          2.1            41        517-  727      327         885-1,095         89             567        380         300           1,33       2,221- 2,431
Sunflower                            1.1           108       685-  946       256       1,049-1,310        40              762        136         285           1,223      2,272- 2,533
Alfalfa (hay)                        3.0            189      481-  674       272         942-1,135       135              890         74          73          TT7T        2,114- 2,307
Sugar beet                          18.0           170       800-1,110   1,843         2,813-3,123       300              901      1,768         820           3.789      6,602- 6,912
Future With Project
Rainfed Non-Saline Soils
Wheat                                2.7           409        633-  890      171       1,213-1,470         90           1,023         67         327           1.507      2,720--2,9,7
Barley                               3.0           243       582-  820       193       1,018-1,256        115           1,059         72         335           1.581      2,599- 2,837
Maize grain                          3.2             41       517-  727      327         885-1,095        131             659        480         347           1.617      2,502- 2,712
Sunflower                            1.6           108       685-  946       256       1,049-1,310        52              871        138         303           1.364      2,413- 2,674
Alfalfa (hay)                        4.5           189       481-  674       272         942-1,135        166           1,070         92           75          1,403      2,345- 2,538
Sugar beet                          25 0           170       800-1,110   1 843         2,813-3,123       412              901      2.012         897           4;222      7.fl3S- 7.345
Irrigated Non-Saline Soils
Wheat                                4.5           409    1,188-1,664        171       1,768-2,244        145           1,459        230         425           2,259      4,027- 4,503
Barley                               5.0           243       968-1,359       193       1,404-1,795       188            1,559        230         429           2,406      3,810- 4,201
Maize grain                          7.0            41    1,204-1,680        327       1,572-2,048        279             985      1,098         600           2,962      4,534- 5,010
Sunflower                            2.6           108    1,181-1,642        256       1,545-2,006        79            1,110        351         384           1,924      3,469- 3,930
Soybean                              2.4           519       529-  750       312       1,360-1,581       107            1,678        402         489           2,676      4,036- 4,257
Alfalfa (hay)                       10.0           189       792-1,111       272       1,253-1,572       283            1,915        391         139           2,728      3,981- 4,300
Sugar beet                          45.0           170    2,063-2,870   1,843         4,076-4,883        752            1,054      2,860       1,504           6,170    10,246-11,053
Sorghum green mass                  32.0           115       454-  657        -          569-  772       613              831        438          88           1,970      2,539- 2,742
Irrigated Saline Soils
Wheat                                4.0           409    1,188-1,664        171       1,768-2,244       130            1,338        224         404           22096      3,864- 4,340
Barley                               4.5           243       968-1,359       193       1,404-1,795       170            1,434        223         405           2,232      3,636- 4,027
Maize grain                          6.0            41    1,204-1,680        327       1,572-2,048       241              906      1,002         555           2.704      4,276- 4,752
Sunflower                            2.4           108    1,181-1,642        256       1,545-2,006        74            1,067        351         377           1.869      3,414- 3,875
Soybean                              2.2           519       529-  750       312       1,360-1,581        99            1,592        399         474           2.564      3,924- 4,145
Alfalfa (hay)                        8.0           189       792-1,111       272       1,253-1,572       240            1,675        366         137           2.418      3,671- 3,990
Sugar beet                          40.0           170    2,063-2,870   1,843         4,076-4,883        672            1,054      2,675       1,457           5,858      9,934-10,741
Sorghum green mass                  28.0           115       454-  657       -           569-  772       537              779        408          88           1,812      2,381- 2,584
/1 Fertilizer costs based on Bank projections 1979-1990. For detailed derivation of
Fertilizer quantities and costs see Project Implementation File.
/9  Includes Fivxed costs/ha + Varihable cost--/ton.
November 1978                   X



- 70 -                               ANNEX 11
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN
THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
INDEX
S. NO.         SUBJECT
1.0            Role of Women
1.1            Agricultural Research
2.0            Forms of Association of Agricultural Production Units
2.1            Table showing Main Soil Types
2.2            Farm Inputs
2.3            The Borrower:  The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2.4            Marketing:  Storage and Processing Capacities
3.0            Description of the Project Works
3.1            Drainage and Reclamation - Technical Analysis
3.2            Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditure for Mostistea
3.3            Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditure for Calmatui
3.4            Construction and Farm Equipment
3.5            Allocation of Production Income in CAPs and IASs
4.0            Audit and Control System
5.0            Cropping Patterns and their Optimization
5.1            Technology for Maize Doublecropping in Irrigated Land
5.2            Experience in Obtaining High Yields with Double Crops
5.3            Present and Future Crop Production in Mostistea
5.4            Present and Future Crop Production in Calmatui
5.5            Evaluation of Fertilizer Costs based on Border Prices
5.6            Economic Costs and Benefit Streams



CHART 1
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMAN IA
MOSTISTEA - IMPLEMENTATIN SCHEDULE
IBRD FISCAL YEAR      1979    1980       1981   |1982          1983   |1984            8 1195  86
ROMANIAN FISCAL& CALENDAR      1979       1980      1981        1982      1983       1984       1985
YEAR
FLOATING PUMPS & RESERVOIRS
MAIN PUMPING STATIONS
POWER SUPPLY
CANALS AND STRUCTURES
PUMPED RESERVOIRS
IRRIGATION WORKS
MAIN PUMPING STATIONS
PRESSURE PUMPING STATIONS
POWER SUPPLY
CANALS AND STRUCTURES
DISTRIBUTION PIPELINE
ON-FARM EQUIPMENT
DRAINAGE WORKS
DRAINS AND STRUCTURES
TILE DRAINAGE
PUMPING STATIONS
SOIL RECLAMATION WORKS
SOIL EROSION CONTROL WORKS                                     -
LAND LEVELING
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS
WELLS AND RELOCATION
FACILITIES FOR OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE
PROCUREMENT OF FQ! IIPMENIT                                     -
World Bank 19663



CHART 2
APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMAN IA
CALMATUI - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IBRD FISCAL YEAR      1979    19 0   |  19 1   |  1982   |  1983         1984      1985    1986
ROMANIAN FISCAL& CALENDAR     1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
YEAR                    .
IRRIGATION WORKS
MAIN PUMPING STATIONS
PRESSURE PUMPING STATIONS
POWER SUPPLY
CANALS AND STRUCTURES
DISTRIBUTION PIPELINE                              -
ON-FARM EQUIPMENT                                  -
DRAINAGE WORKS
DRAINS AND STRUCTURES
TILE DRAINAGE                                      -
RECLAMATION OF SALINE SOIL
LAND LEVELING
DEEP PLOWING AND RIPPING
SOIL AMENDMENTS
LEACHING
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS
WELLS AND RELOCATION
FACILITIES FOR OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT                                       -
World Bank - 19662



APPRAISAL OF
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
ORGANIZATION OF PROJECT CONNECTED AGENCIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  11
ELsI >Cs1   cullre & Food                                                                                                                                        [    anDFoodT--dusD.
En gY   s dutill IdAF11                                                                                        |          (MAIAI                                                                                                                            C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEll
tAcode,,w    ag,AgrIulue                  |D pao,,ancn & Aga                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _
_   (9 In Mumb f1   {uS z _   {sSPIF1   InstItute            ~               ~              ~              ~             ~39.                                                                                           09 N.-
&rI    o              I          >                                                                                                        ;;;;  Trusto          | | D   ct E terprIges . s        DISr  E ;            | EmerpilbL  tnq       l l    DzstIlc
|   S r  nC   l        g|                of         ||   endl llEtfdtS    | {0 StYeF                                                                                     |   M  hn   O {ME ||    s9D    Nmrel  A)  
Cc,,,5,,,~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ eCA I                                                                                  j AS S,,,              | |  MEdshIAMo,, CAME)  |                                             IE InF)r        E,,tms   m,,CScc                                 S



APPRAISAL OF                                                 CHART 4
MOSTISTEA AND CALMATUI IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ROMANIA
ORGANIZATION OF NATIONAL WATER COUNCIL
NATI ONA L WATER
COUNCIL (NWC)
INSTITUTE OF            RESEARCH & DESIGN1
METEOROLOGY &            INSTITUTE FOR WATER       CONSTRUCTION TRUST FOR              WATER
HYDROLOGY             RESOURCES ENGINEERING      HYDROTECHNICAL WORKS              MANAGEMENT
DISTRICT OFFICES
RESEARCH INSTITUTE         DESIGN DEPARTMENT                       FOR WATER MANAGEMENT
WATER MANAGEMENT             FLOOD CONTROL             DAMS AND STORAGES
World Bank- 17855



uSIR,
r
R 0 M A N I A
V-,
A-..
1 IAI
4.
IN-            Ff
T 2L
BUC.0E
cl"
Ti                                                                     WI,
.C.'-.          V.&A-
Sa
J(
-A1111                                                                            Vd
it                        21 tT
-AI
IA. I
ROMA                                                                              S.h-                                                                                                    3-1
Most                                                                                                                                                                       e
Irrigation  and  Drainage  Project                                                                  C?. t-
AAOST 1,5TEA
fut
b-fty                                                                                                     I J14                                 if
119111'
D,W,b.t
ItT
D-h.rq. pp.,
71
'r- r, p-p,,,g Wh-                                                                                                                                                                                             c
IA'           .-  [-  .l -N
P-p g M. t I.,,  f., d, ch.rg
I   F1.0ing p-p,q -fi-
p-pI,d          d
-R v-
A 1    E-Wg ..t,,r d.W.ry -.1
E.,M,,,, , -p, q 1tmr
'-..
15p-kI,, l
Cr-.g.
F.-ft
T.-
F..Ib, dg-
W-ft
Rw _Y'
Jud,,t b-d.ryDI, l lb-d.,y)
t A






I BRD 13934
ROMANIA                           NOVEMBER t97B
t p1  R~  Sute00.                      Mostiatea & Clmatui Irrigation & Drainage Project
CALMATUI
Project area boundary
!ER'RASL                              Water delive,y canals
06  7 /                                  I vs  \   v s ^ h M             nO C,,P 4 D stribotion canals
- No/ BUZAU    f  LOCDPLA[                           11w . 5 r i''vz  fl X ogf >*   ° Ground pipe network
BUZa U    ;         ;                                               (FLTIJRE)                                                             j U                   --           t 0yil4                                       Repumping and pre-sure pimping sta.tons
10  ~~~~~~.-f~Drain chonse s
C      Se-ondary drainagecanals
7->  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----Tile rube
¶Pla\ 9                        \\       X        X                                                >      +     9 t                        F     l i l¢v                                                                                 Nonsaline andwith surfacedrainageandirrigationfrom Danube
e                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Saline anus with surface end s-bsuface drainage and
reclamation worksforleaching and irrigaton from the Danube
qe .                                                                                                                                                                                  \   m      Nfonsaline lcnd with surface drainage and without irrigation
IfV.:.ZT:.: Saline lands witHout irrigation and reclamation works.
9lvi                                 B.,tu                                                                                                                                                                     --J  Area   ot A   npart of project
--t~3u.x   BuExisting irrigation schem)ejs! ethe rep ew orrhe rer re t Dh sh t l sinecheVdeitnirginsee
Towns aind cillagen
_____ dUff  Rnads
CA'  '  50~~~~~~E                        ViZIRU          -----~~~~~~Judet boundary (District boundary)
PAIA POGOANELE   SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                                       V.        si~ pp  ne  PO,~o
,o       ROMANILC                                                                                                                                                                                .
k                 Buoau~~~~t...Y 'f                                                                                                                                                 KLOMuETERS
POGOSLSoA    h.A
44-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



