LOAN NUMBER 1670 RO
Loan Agreement
(Mostistea and Calmatui
Irrigation and Drainage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
Dated                             ,0 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1670 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   (2/z-e /                  , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE
ALIMENTARA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
Lions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "CELIF" the Central for the Exploitation of Land Recla-
mation Works, established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the Council
of Ministers of Romania;
(b) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved
by Decree No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania,
approved by Law o. 15 of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time
to time;
(c) "Cooperative Farm" means any Cooperative for Agricul-
tural Production operating under a charter adopted by the Third
Congress of the National Union of Cooperatives for Agricultural
Production held in April 1977, and approved by Decree No. 346 of
September 28, 1977, of the Council of State of Romania, including
any subsequent amendments of such charter;
(d) "DIFCA" means the Department of Land Reclamation and
Agricultural Construction in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry cf Romania;


﻿-2-
(e) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for
Foreign Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(f) "Project Land" means all land which shall be served by
the irrigation or drainage facilities constructed or installed
under the Project, including land cultivated by State Farms and
Cooperative Farms and plots given in use to members of Cooperative
Farms;
(g) "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;
(h) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(i) "Romagrimex" means the Romanian Foreign Trade Enter-
prise of the Ministry of Agricu ture and Food Industry of Romania,
established under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, and operating
under Decision No. 938 of August 14, 1972 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(j) "State Farm" means any Agricultural State Enterprise
established and operating under Law No. 11/1971 of Romania, as
amended from time to time; and
(k) "NWC" means the National Water Council established
by Decree No. 156/1975 of the Council of State of Romania.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonably cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and selected
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower may designate the Foreign Trade Bank as
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials and spare parts
required for the Project and selected by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986, or
such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial
and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the
Project, including the procurement of the goods and services
required therefor;


﻿-4-
(b) DIFCA and NWC shall in close cooperation with each
other:
(i) make suitable arrangements for the procurement of
,he goods and services required for the Project;
and
(ii) make or cause to be made a timely supply of the
general engineering services required for the
Project, and make timely arrangements with the
appropriate construction organizations of Romania
as required for the civil works and the installa-
tions included in the Project.
(c) DIFCA shall have overall responsibility for the co-
ordination of the implementation of the Project and for the
activities of the other departments and agencies of Romania
related thereto.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods or to replace such
goods.
Section 3.03. Except Ls the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Ahievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in
order to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be neces-
sary that:
(a) the widening and deepening of the Calmatui River, which
is under implemenzation by Romania to increase its capacity to
adequately cope with the runoff generated by heavy precipitation
and to effectively act as the main drain for the drainage works to


﻿-5-
be constructed under the Project, will be completed by December
31, 1981;
(b) the irrigation and drainage facilities constructed or
installed under the Project will be operated and maintained by
CELIF in close cooperation with the State Farms and Cooperative
Farms cultivating Project Land, and the electric power facilities
serving the irrigation and drainage facilities constructed or
installed under the Project will be operated and maintained by the
competent electric power enterprises of Romania, and all necessary
repairs and renewals of such facilities will be made from time to
time, all in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering
and administrative practices; and
(c) the cultivators of Project Land will be supplied with
agricultural, technical and advisory services, seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, agricultural financing and marketing facilities, and
other agricultural inputs, all as required to make optimal produc-
tive use of such Land.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set
forth in this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate admini-
strative and financial standards and practices and in accordance
with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on
any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security


﻿-6-
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the lien shall
be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall
take such measures as shall be necessary according to the State
Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accom-
plished. To that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from tim-a to time at
the request of either party exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
benefits derived from the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment
of the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, and the
Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to exchange views
with representatives of DIFCA, NWC, CELIF and the State Farms and
Cooperative Farms served by the Project, and the other agencies
concerned of Romania with regard to the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, and the fulfillment of the requirements
set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from DIFCA, NWC and the other
agencies of Romania concerned with the Project, and furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement


﻿-7-
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower
shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five
calendar days after each calendar quarter, a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on
the progress of the Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and the records and documents relating to the Project of
DIFCA, NWC and of other departments and agencies of Romania
responsible for the Project or any part thereof;
(e) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each of its fiscal years,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the
completion of the Project certified copies of its records referred
to in paragraph (c) of this Section recording the cost of the
Project, for such fiscal year submitted to an independent audit
conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in
such detail as the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree; and (ii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the before-
mentioned financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(f) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such additional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations,
resources and expenditures of DIFCA, NWC and CELIF, the benefits
derived from the Project and the general status of the Loan;
and


﻿-8-
(g) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall reasonably agree, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Bank and the Borrower
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which Interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either party of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Terminatior
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, the Council of Ministers of Romania has approved the
technical and economic indicators for the Project and such
approval has become effective.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be incl-uded in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the technical and economic
indicators for the Project have been duly approved by the Council
of Ministers of Romania and such approval has become effective.
Section 7.03. The date                   7, is hereby
specified for the purpose of Se tion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) cr
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Cable address:                     Telex:
AGROBANK                           11622
Bucharest
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first ateve written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
ByA                        i     e     n
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and               61,400,000       100% of foreign
spare parts                                  expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(2) Materials                    5,600,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Unallocated                   3,000,000
TOTAL        70,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 11 -
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such
taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to provide irrigation and drainage facilities,
erosion control, soil reclamation and other miscellaneous works
and farm machinery and equipment tu serve adequately (i) an area
of about 158,540 ha ("Mostistea Area") situated in Ilfov and
Ialomita Districts, on the banks of the Mostistea River, a left
bank tributary of the Danube River, and bounded by the Ialomita
River in the north, by the area of the first phase of the already
completed Mostistea I project in the south and east and, by the
Arges River and its tributaries in the west; and (ii) an area of
about 66,930 ha ("Calmatui Area") situated in Buzau and Braila
Districts, on both banks of the Calmatui River, a left bank
tributary of the Danube River, and forming a part of the Calmatui
Basin of about 172,000 ha bounded by the Bucharest-Buzau-Braila
railway line in the north, by the Braila-Viziru terraces in the
east, by the towns of Insuratei in the south and by the town of
Buzau and Pietrosol area in the west.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Mostistea Area
1.   Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
Construction, remodelling, installation and provision of
irrigation, drainage, and other facilities adequate to
serve the Mostistea Area as follows:
(a) widening, of the existing supply canal (about 9 km
long) from the Danube River terminating at the foot
of the existing lezer Dam and extension of the
existing floating pumping station at the foot of
the lezer Dam lifting water from the said supply
canal into the lezer Lake.
(b) four low storage dams, one each at Frasinet,
Gurbanesti, Fundulea and Nariuta on the Mostistea
River with live capacity of about 92Mm3, 51Mm3,
30Mm3 and 19Mm3, respectively, and 4 floating
pumping stations one each at the foot of each of
the said stora es with capacity of about 114
m3/sec, 68.4 m /sec, 57 m3/sec and 53 m3/sec,
respectively;


﻿- 13 -
(c) thirteen fixed pumping stations: 7 of them to lift
water from the pumped storages into 7 main canal
systems to be constructed under (d) below, inclu-
ding one to lift water from the Mariuta pumped
storage into the Hagiesti-Movilita Canal to be
constructed under (d) below and 6 will be repumping
stations to be located on various distribution
canals to be constructed under (d) below;
(d) the Hagiesti-Movilita Canal and 12 irrigation
canal systems each consisting of concrete lined
main and distribution canals and necessary regu-
lators, bridges, culverts, escape weirs, drop
and other structures: 7 of these systems to be
supplied with water from pumped storages to be
constructed under (b) above and 5 from the
Hagiesti-Movilita Canal;
(e) fifty-one fixed pressure pumping stations to
serve about 84,800 ha and 691 mobile electric pumps
to about 73,740 ha;
(f) about 552 km of 20 kV power lines, transformer
substations and pole mounted transformers, to
supply energy to all of the pumping stations
and mobile pumps to be constructed under Part A of
the Project.
(g) pipe distribution networks, consisting of a buried
main and distribution pipes equipped with hydrants
and other necessary fittings to serve the Mostistea
Area;
(h) on-farm sprinkler and furrow equipment;
Ci) surface drainage works with necessary structures
to serve about 82,638 ha including drainage
pumping station; and
(j) sub-surface drainage network with tile drains
to initially serve an area about 4,238 ha. The
Borrower will regularly monitor the ground water
table in the project area and install any addi-
tional sub-surface drainage works as and when they
become necessary.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Soil Erosion Control Works
Soil erosion control works to serve an area of about
13,344 ha including land levelling of about 6,747
ha and terracing of about 3,561 ha.
Part B:   Calmatui Area
1.   Drainage and Irrigation Facilities
Construction, remodelling, installation and provision of
drainage facilities as well as irrigation and other
facilities adequate to serve the Calmatui Area as
follows:
(a) surface drainage works with necessary structures
to serve an area of 66,930 ha;
(b) sub-surface drainage networks with tile drains
to serve areas of about 9,200 ha of saline soils
and of about 5,255 ha of potentially saline soils
within the irrigated area of 23,000 ha; (c)   two
pumping units each with capacity of 9 -' /sec to
extend the capacity of the existing floating
pumping station at km 221 of the Danube River;
(d) a canal of about 39.4 km length with necessary
structures to serve about 23,000 ha; widening
and deepening of the existing canal, reconstruction
of concrete lining in a length of about 9.0 km,
including increase in capacity of 2 existing
pumping stations; and raising of concrete lining by
0.5 m in a length of about 18.9 km;
(e) eleven pressure pumping stations and two repumping
stations to serve about 23,000 ha; and
(f) on-farm sprinkler equipment.
2.   Reclamation of Saline Soils
Reclamation of about 9,200 ha of saline and saline/
alkali soils located in the irrigated area of 23,000 ha
in the Calmatui Area by levelling, deep sipping/mole
ploughing, deep ploughing without turning, application
of chemical amendments, and leaching.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:   Farm Machinery and Equipment
Provision of tractors, harvesters and some cultivation and
transportation equipment for State Farms and Cooperative Farms,
and of equipment required for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage facilities included in Parts A and B of
the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1982
through   October 1, 1993                  2,915,000
On April 1, 1994                                2,955,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                        2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                 6.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                 7.00%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and spare parts shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 19 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside
Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 20 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Romagrimex shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, Romagrimex
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respec-
tive amounts of the bids, and shall indicate those items for which
only one bid was received.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, Romagrimex shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and
the reason for the intended award and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Romagrimex and state the reasons
for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,


﻿- 21 -
Romagrimex shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Romagrimex and state the reasons for such determination.


