Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19554
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan 3725-KZ
June 28, 1999
Infrastructure Unit
Country Department VIII
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Tenge (KT)
100 Tenge        US$ 0.80
US$1         125 Tenge
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994          1995           1996           1997        June 1998
35.5           61             67             75             77
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC - Almaty Tram/Trolleybus Company
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IFIs - International financial institutions
IMF - International Monetary Fund
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOT - Ministry of Transport, Telecommunications and Tourism
NIIT  - Nauchno-Issledovatel 'skiy Institut dlya Transporta
(Transport Scientific Research Institute)
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PSAP - Policy Statement and Action Plan
TACIS - European Commission's Technical Assistance Program for
the CIS
KAZAKHSTAN'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar, ECSIN



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 3725-KZ)
Contents
Preface .............................................................i
Evaluation  Summary .............................................................                                                                            ii
Part I. Project Implementation  Assessment .............................................................1
Part II. Statistical Tables .............................................................                                                                   14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................................                                                 14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS ................................................................... 16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TiMETABLE ...................................................................                                                      16
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................                               18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...................................................................                                   19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...................................................................                                           20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ....................................................................                                                        20
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .................................................................... 20
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...................................................................                                             21
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...................................................................                                         25
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...................................................................                                             25
Appendices:
A. Project time line
B. Borrower's Evaluation Report
C. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 3725-KZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Urban Transport Project in
Kazakhstan, for which Loan 3725-KZ in the amount of US$ 40 million equivalent was approved
on April 7, 1994 and made effective on February 9, 1995.
The Loan was closed on September 30, 1998, fifteen months after the original closing date.
It was not fully disbursed, and after an extended grace period the last disbursement took place on
December 31, 1998, at which date $39.0 million had been drawn down. The European
Commission provided co-financing of ECU 0.6 million for training, through its TACIS program.
The ICR was prepared by Graham Smith of the Europe and Central Asia Region's
Infrastructure Sector Unit and Ruslan Mamishev of the Almaty Resident Mission, under the
guidance of Jean-Charles Crochet, Transport Program Team Leader for Kazakhstan, and
reviewed by Kiyoshi Kodera, Country Director for Kazakhstan.
Preparation of this ICR was based on material in the project file and information gathered
during the Bank's completion mission in late May, 1999. The Borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by supplying data and written responses to questions.
The Borrower did not provide comments to the draft ICR, but prepared its own evaluation
report on the Project's execution and initial implementation (which is attached as Appendix B to
the ICR).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 3725-KZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.  The project was one of the World Bank's first three operations in Kazakhstan, all prepared
in 1993 as the country was still consolidating its independence from the former Soviet Union and
launching its transition to a market economy. The first two loans -for rehabilitation in general
and for technical assistance-- addressed needs across the whole economy. The fact that the first
loan for a specific sector was for urban transport reflected the urgency of restoring an essential
public service which was threatened by physical and financial collapse.
Project Objectives
2.   The main objectives of the project were to:
(a) help restore public transport capacity in Kazakhstan's three main cities, Almaty,
Karaganda and Shymkent, to adequate levels of service quality;
(b) design and implement some key improvements in policies and institutions described in a
Policy Statement and Action Plan for urban public transport of the three cities, which was
formally adopted by the Government before the loan was signed.
3.   The project was limited to three cities so as to speed project preparation and facilitate
supervision. It was expected that the policy and institutional measures developed through the
project would become models for improving public transport in Kazakhstan's other main cities.
4.  In 1997, when savings arose through the cancelation of certain components, the project
was extended to include the city of Akmola (now Astana), which by that time had been
designated the national capital.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.  The project objectives were filly achieved. By the time of the completion mission urban
transport capacity was greatly expanded not only in the project cities, but throughout
Kazakhstan, with passengers well served with affordable transport of acceptable, if modest,
quality.
6.   This was achieved thanks to the enactment and implementation of major legislation to
make municipal bus fleets legally independent of the local governments and allow all qualified
operators, whether public or private, to offer public transport services. The city governments



- 111 -
have awarded route licenses by competitive bidding. At the same time many small private
operators have started operations even without route licenses, exercising rights granted under
general laws allowing private firms to do business. The lively competition thus engendered has
greatly benefited the traveling public and held fares low. At the same time, the overlapping of
these two legal approaches -competitionfor the market and competition in the market-which
are mutually exclusive, has caused confusion among operators and exacerbates their already
precarious financial situation. A transport law of December 1998 has tackled but not fully
resolved this problem.
7.   The technical assistance provided under the project was successful in designing these
measures and in motivating political leaders to enact and implement them for the whole country.
Most free-travel privileges have been abolished, so that bus operators no longer bear the burden
of funding social policies. In this respect Kazakhstan has made far greater strides than any other
CIS state.
8.   The bulk of the loan amount was spent on the purchase of 289 full-size buses operated by
the municipal bus companies and their successors. Though only a small part of the total
capacity, these make a visually conspicuous contribution to the fleets' renewal in the four project
cities. Procurement of these buses was contentious, since the Government and the Bank had
very different views on the initial evaluation of bids. It took half a year to reach agreement, and
some bitterness remains from this conflict.
9.  It remains uncertain who among the operating companies, the regional governments, or the
national government will generate the funds necessary to repay the loan. Subloan agreements
have been signed covering only two of the four cities, and in all cities the present financial
situation of the municipal operators is too weak to allow them to service the debt. This situation
will change only if they take sustained efforts to improve revenue collection and cut costs, and
compensation is paid for any remaining fare exemptions. With hindsight, the Bank should
perhaps have pushed to include some smaller buses in the project.
10. In Almaty, which has two-thirds of the project buses, problems have arisen with
maintenance. The centralized organization established to provide all maintenance performed
poorly and the eight separate municipal companies have taken matters into their own hands, with
inadequate funds and technical expertise. This remains a cause for concern.
11. The objective of rehabilitating existing buses and trolleybuses was not achieved under the
project. However, this is acceptable, since the need was much reduced by 1995-96. Spare parts
for rehabilitating a limited number of existing buses were funded from the Bank's Rehabilitation
Loan. Trolleybuses are being phased out in all project cities but Almaty, and Almaty has
obtained financing for purchase of new trolleybuses from other sources.



- 1v -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12. The following lessons can be learned from the project:
* Contrary to widely held perceptions in the region, it is possible to operate an effective urban
public transport system in a transition economy without subsidy.
+ Privatization and the elimination of uncompensated free-travel privileges require firm
commitment at the highest levels of government to development of the private sector and
hard budget constraints in the public sector.
* Centralized purchase of buses through the public sector is sub-optimal. The Bank accepted
to do it in this case because it was the only way open at the time to protect urban public
transport from collapse and respond to a national priority, but ideally operators should make
their own purchase decisions with commercial credit.
* Both the Bank and the Borrower should have given greater attention, from the outset, to
vehicle maintenance.
+ In future, if the Government wishes to intervene to protect the socially most vulnerable
groups, or compensate for externalities of traffic congestion and air pollution, it should
explore what it can do to help the bus companies strengthen their finances. Options worth
considering include: (a) resolving the conflict between route licensing and open access to the
market, (b) ensuring targeted and sustainable compensation for any remaining fare privileges,
and (c) taking measures to ease access to commercial credit, improve the legal framework for
leasing, and ensure equal tax treatment for all classes of transport operators.
I Encourage local consulting capacity for long-term sustainability.
* Minimize turnover of Bank task manager and Borrower's project manager.
* Keep it simple.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 3725-KZ)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.  The project was one of the World Bank's first three operations in Kazakhstan, all
prepared in 1993 as the country was still consolidating its independence from the former
Soviet Union and launching its transition to a market economy. The first two loans,
approved in August and September 1993, addressed the most pressing needs of the whole
economy: one financed urgent general imports for economic rehabilitation and the other
technical assistance to begin the process of building and rebuilding government
institutions and privatizing state-owned enterprises. The fact that the first loan for a
specific sector was for urban transport reflected the urgency of restoring an essential
public service which was threatened by physical and financial collapse.
2.   The main objectives of the project were to:
(a) help restore public transport capacity in Kazakhstan's three main cities, Almaty,
Karaganda and Shymkent, to adequate levels of service quality;
(b) design and implement some key improvements in policies and institutions
described in a Policy Statement and Action Plan for urban public transport of the
three cities, which was formally adopted by the Government before the loan was
signed.
3 .  The project was limited to three cities so as to speed project preparation and
facilitate supervision. It was expected that the policy and institutional measures
developed through the project would become models for improving public transport in
Kazakhstan's other main cities.
4.  In 1997, when savings arose through the cancelation of certain components, the
project was extended to include the city of Akmola (now Astana), which by that time had
been designated the national capital.
5.   The choice of sector and the project objectives were appropriate for an early
operation in a country just starting the transition to a market economy. The borrower
attached high priority to restoring public transport to allay widespread public discontent,
and was strongly committed to tackling the problems which had led to its collapse. For
its part, the Bank's experience elsewhere had led it to have reservations about financing
vehicles in the public sector, on the general policy grounds that private-sector incentives
work better in this area, but in the countries newly emerging from decades of central
planning no private-sector bus companies existed. In parallel with this project, a similar
one was being prepared for secondary cities in Russia, responding to the same urgent
need with much the same instruments.



- 2 -
6.  It was also appropriate that conditionality was deliberately kept to a minimum. The
borrower had no prior experience of international competitive bidding and was just
embarking on a radical restructuring of the public sector's role toward urban transport.
The needed institutions were weak or non-existent. It was evident that radical cut-backs
in the right to free travel were needed, which would be politically difficult. In hindsight,
the long initial delays with procurement and the complexity of the institutional
developments -especially with regard to free travel privileges and private participation-
show that it was a wise approach to keep things simple; the project turned out to be
complicated enough.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
7.   The project objectives were fully and effectively achieved. By the time of the
Completion mission urban transport capacity was greatly expanded in all the project
cities, with two to three times as many buses on the streets and passengers well served
with affordable transport of acceptable quality. It is said that "buses now chase
passengers instead of passengers chasing buses". Shymkent's fleet went from 350 public
transport vehicles in 1992, all full-size (i.e. 45-50 seaters) to 944 buses of many sizes
from full-size down to 11-seater mini-buses. In the other cities no statistics are available
on the number of buses operated by start-up private firms, but the change has been
comparable. Capacity is much expanded not only in the four project cities but throughout
Kazakhstan.
8.   The objective of rehabilitating existing buses and trolleybuses was not achieved
under the project. However, this is acceptable, since the need was much reduced by
1995-96. As is explained more fully below, spare parts for rehabilitating a limited
number of existing buses were funded from the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan.
Trolleybuses are being phased out in all project cities but Almaty, and Almaty has
obtained financing for purchase of new trolleybuses from other sources.
9.   The policy/institutional activities under the project were successful in designing
measures to de-monopolize and privatize urban public transport and in motivating
political leaders to enact and implement them for the whole country. Most free-travel
privileges have been abolished, so that bus operators no longer bear the burden of
funding social policies. In this respect Kazakhstan has made far greater strides than any
other CIS state.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
10. These successes were not achieved without struggle. Implementation was subject
to delays of twelve to eighteen months; at one critical stage, the Government thought of
canceling the whole project because of disagreement over the procurement of new buses;
two other components were canceled, including one because of irreconcilable differences
over procurement; and continuing budget shortages on all sides hampered the
implementing agencies.
11. Procurement of new buses: Early in the project's implementation a major
disagreement arose over the procurement of the single largest contract: the purchase of



- 3 -
300 diesel buses'. The borrower's inexperience with international competitive bidding
and IFI procedures, combined with unfamiliarity with bus models from outside the Soviet
bloc, caused a year-long delay in start-up. Most full-size buses in the Soviet Union had
been made by Ikarus of Hungary --of which the USSR was a co-owner-and it was
widely expected that Ikarus would win the bid. The Bank, on its side, was concerned that
the playing field should be level for all qualified suppliers and that the specifications
should not be biased toward Ikarus. In the event Ikarus's bid contained inconsistencies
which, in the judgment of the borrower's procurement advisors, made it the second
lowest responsive bid and, in the Bank's opinion, non-responsive. The lowest responsive
bid came from a consortium led by Nissho Iwai, a Japanese trading firm, offering buses
made in Turkey by MANAS, a subsidiary of MAN (Germany). The Government was
reluctant to accept this conclusion and argued for an alternative interpretation which
made Ikarus's bid the lowest. After many exchanges the borrower accepted the Bank's
view, because any other decision would have further delayed delivery of the much-
needed buses.
12. The price of the winning bid was about 25% higher than had been expected at
appraisal. This may be explained by exchange rate changes in supplier countries in the
interval (mid-1993 to mid-1994) and the perception of high risk by suppliers unfamiliar
with Kazakhstan. Only four bids out of 22 were found responsive. In consequence of the
higher-than-expected price, the number of buses bought at this stage had to be cut back to
240.
13. Technical assistance: Meanwhile, pending resolution of this bid issue, the
Government put other project activities --notably the hiring of consultants-- on hold until
it was clear that the project would go ahead. The late hiring of the consultants meant that
all dated covenants for implementing the reform measures foreseen in the Policy
Statement and Action Plan (PSAP) -which relied on the studies to clarify and
substantiate the proposed measures-- were also delayed.
14. Furthermore, the performance of the main consultant in their first half year was not
satisfactory, until arrangements were made to strengthen the team's management. The
quality of the consultant's final report was good. But because of the late start the
measures which depended on the consultant's studies were delayed by about a year.
15.  Rehabilitation of existing buses and trolleybuses: It was intended that the project
would finance rehabilitation of existing buses and trolleybuses. However, by the time the
Government was ready to launch procurement (that is, once the contract for new buses
had been signed) it had become clear that the purchase of spare parts under the Loan was
no longer necessary. There were two reasons for this: (i) the condition of the Ikarus bus
fleet had rapidly deteriorated in the intervening two years so that the number of buses that
were worth rehabilitating was smaller; and (ii) rehabilitation of this small number of
buses could be carried out with spare parts now manufactured in Kazakhstan and spare
parts already obtained under the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan. (The latter, worth about $4
The appraisal report foresaw 300, but in the following half year new information indicated that prices would be
substantially higher. Consequently the bid documents called for 250 buses.



-4-
million, had been intended for inter-city buses, but the demand for inter-city passenger
transport had collapsed.)
16. As to the trolleybuses, the main demand came from Almaty. However, the Almaty
Tram/ Trolleybus Company had no experience with international competitive bidding and
had difficulty drawing up a procurement program and documentation which met Bank
requirements for competitive bidding. Most parts came from a monopoly supplier in
Russia, who insisted on 100% advance financing but was unable to provide performance
guarantees. This was unacceptable to the Bank. After efforts spanning two years it was
agreed that this component should also be dropped, and the loan amount intended for
rehabilitation of buses and trolleybuses ($6.1 million) should be reallocated to other,
higher priority items.
17. Expansion of the bus component: When the Government was considering deleting
the rehabilitation programs, the more attractive alternative was to use the loan funds to
purchase additional new buses. The cities had after all expected to receive 300; the
higher-than-expected price had forced them to cut back to 240. The elimination of the
bus rehabilitation allowed the three initial cities to buy an extra 26 buses one year after
the first batch, as an extension to the Nissho Iwai/MANAS contract. The elimination of
the trolleybus rehabilitation allowed a third batch of 23 buses to be purchased for Astana.
Again this was done as an extension of the Nissho Iwai/MANAS contract, in order to
save time and have the buses delivered in time for the inauguration of Astana as the
national capital. Thus in total 289 buses were bought.
18. Policy and institutional objectives: Major decisions by the national and municipal
govermments shaped the restructuring of the sector. In July 1995 the public transport tax,
a tax on the turnover of all companies earmarked for public transport, was abolished as
part of fiscal reforms recommended by the IMF and the Bank. By removing a stable
source of state budget funds for the sector, this forced the national and municipal
transport authorities to find alternative solutions to the problem of free travel and
inadequate cost recovery by the bus operating companies.
19. The major legislation reshaping the sector to adjust to this new reality was Decree
773 of June 1996, which mandated dismantling of the municipal monopoly bus
companies, corporatization of the individual municipal bus depots, and the opening of
urban transit markets to the private sector through competitive award of route licenses.
The decree also encouraged the payment of compensation for fare exemptions. All
former municipal bus fleets have now been restructured as joint-stock companies and
shares distributed or sold to employees, municipalities and private investors in various
proportions. The eight such companies in Almaty are still majority-owned by the City.
Shymkent now has one purely state enterprise (to operate the MANAS buses), one joint-
stock company wholly owned by the city, one where the state retains a small share-
holding, and 22 fully private companies. Karaganda auctioned its three municipal fleets
to private investors but retained ownership of the buses under a lease-type arrangement
("trust management").
20. Various further legislation has been introduced at national and municipal levels
since 1996 to implement these radical new policies, notably regarding design of the route



-5 -
tendering system and payment of compensation for free or discount travel by
"sponsoring" government agencies (e.g. the Ministry of Defense for soldiers, the Ministry
of Education for school children and students, and the social security agencies for
pensioners). These agencies have only partly complied because they too lack funds and
negotiation continues. In 1998, the municipal companies got less than 10% of their
revenue from the city budgets (Table 6). In June 1999 Almaty replaced cheap monthly
passes for municipal pensioners with targeted payments directly to the pensioners2. With
the cancellation of pensioners privileges, the percentage of passengers entitled to
transport exemptions and discounts has been substantially reduced. The trend suggests
that the situation will stabilize at a point where only school children and very few other
passengers will continue to enjoy discount fares and all other exemptions will be
eliminated.
21. In short, the abolition of the public transport tax forced the abandonment of old
ways; Decree 773 forced de-monopolization of bus ownership and tendering for route
licenses; and the subsequent enabling legislation radically improved operators'
opportunities to recover their costs.
D.   Project Sustainability
22. Are the policy reforms irreversible? The policy reforms give every indication of
being irreversible, now that all bus routes are put out to tender and private operators are
growing in experience and enlarging their market share. All parties interviewed by the
ICR mission were convinced of the merits of the new order and see it as irreversible.
Bids for route licenses are compared anonymously on a points system. Consideration
should be given to putting it on the basis of a monetary parameter, such as the lowest
average fare, or at least weighting the points more in this direction. The number of
bidders per tender was only one or two in the first rounds in 1997, but reached an average
of 3 and a maximum of 10 in Almaty in 1999 (Table 6). The Government's decisions to
cut back free-travel privileges and on-going efforts to either compensate the operators or
eliminate the privileges altogether go far towards putting all operators, public or private,
on a sound financial footing. Nonetheless, one cannot rule out political backlash on
behalf of groups whose privileges are being eliminated, which may cause some back-
sliding.
23. Competition in the market or for the market? Decree 773 has set up the
mechanisms for limited competition in urban transport, through the award of route
licenses by competitive bidding. In effect these are geographically restricted, temporary
monopolies, defended on the grounds that they allow municipal governments to control
congestion, assure the traveling public of continuity and reliable services at standardized
fares, and reduce operators' commercial risk as an inducement to invest in new buses. At
the same time, the basic laws defining the rights of private enterprises to do business
permit any enterprise which meets the relevant safety and tax regulations to perform
transport services. Many are doing so with minibuses, over the same routes as have been
"reserved" for the tender winners. These two approaches -competition for the routes and
competition in the routes-are mutually exclusive. International experience finds
2 The city is to pay pensioners 375 KT per month; a monthly ticket costs 600 KT.



-6 -
successful examples of both, but not in the same place. It is a political choice. A
transport law of December 1998 stipulates that urban public transport may be provided
only by those who have a route license. But by the time of the completion mission five
months later, the law appeared not to be common knowledge; it was not yet being
implemented. This warrants the attention of the Ministry of Transport to resolve any
remaining legal uncertainty and communicate accordingly with transport operators and
city officials.
24. How is the bus fleet to be renewed? Now that there is no longer a shortage of
capacity, the cities have turned their attention to how their fleets are to be renewed, since
many of the buses are old, unsafe and polluting. However, all those interviewed --
municipal governments and operators alike-- worry about the financial survival of the
operators. The purchasing power of the public remains low, the opening of the market
has allowed a large number of first-time operators to enter it, and some are bound to fail.
The market has not yet stabilized; many participants believe it is now over-supplied. In
these circumstances few can afford to replace their fleets even with second-hand buses.
A few -only a few-- private operators are buying new buses. New mini- and midi-buses
have been introduced rather than full-size buses. A private operator in Almaty has taken
advantage of the Korean financial crisis and bought a small fleet of new Korean midi-
buses (20-24 seats). A private operator in Shymkent has acquired 45 new Turkish midi-
buses under a purely commercial lease contract with a Swiss lessor. At least one private
operator in Karaganda has financed new minibuses from Russia through a credit line for
small and medium enterprises backed by EBRD. The mini-buses are costing well below
$10,000 each and the midi-buses $20-40,000 each. They match the financial resources of
the operators well, and enjoy excellent consumer acceptance for their low cost. The cities
no longer need the full-size and articulated buses as much as in the Soviet era, since most
of the giant state enterprises have closed; employment centers are now more dispersed
and peak traffic hours are less acute.
25. Almaty and Shymkent intend to insist on new buses in their next rounds of tenders.
Karaganda is a step behind, in that its early experience with route tendering was a
disappointment and most private operators are more outside the system than in it.
Tension remains high between the municipal fleets, the start-up private firms which have
won route licenses, and "pirates" who have no route license but operate anyway.
26. How long will the MANAS buses last? The intended 10-12 year working life of
the buses is in doubt in Almaty because of inadequate maintenance3. They are more
sophisticated than those with which the operators were familiar and require good
maintenance. They need high-quality oil not available from local sources and have
suffered high wear on their braking systems. The operators appear to be buying, not the
required grade of oil and original spare parts, but cheaper, inferior substitutes. The
centralized depot set up in Almaty to manage their maintenance was accused of abusing
its monopoly, leading the operators to take maintenance into their own hands despite
inadequate means and technical knowledge. The buses are also used intensively (more
than 90,000 km per year). In consequence the MANAS buses in Almaty are aging
3 Life-cycle costing in the bid evaluation assumed a 10-year working life. Operators expect that a major overhaul at
that point will allow further use for 3-4 more years.



-7 -
quickly. In contrast, in the other three cities the buses financed from the Loan were
concentrated in only a few well-equipped fleets (three in Karaganda, one each in Astana
and Shymkent), which have carried out maintenance satisfactorily. The City and the
Bank have explored solutions for Almaty, in consultation with the supplier (para. 32); it
is too early to judge whether the problem will now be solved.
27. Who will repay the loan? Uncertainty over who will generate the funds to repay
the loan gives cause for concern. When it was negotiated the Government agreed -
despite misgivings-- to pass the buses on as a grant to the regional governments, who in
turn would pass them on to the publicly-owned bus fleets (directly or through the city
governments, depending on how each city is organized). However, the central
government changed its mind a year later in favor of subloans. The PIU drafted subloan
agreements and local heads of government signed letters agreeing to assume financial
responsibility for the buses, but subloan agreements have been actually signed only with
the Almaty and Astana governments. The corresponding entities in Karaganda and
Shymkent have refused on the grounds that they are unable to generate the funds. The
national government hopes to have all subloan agreements signed by September 1999,
when repayment of loan principal is to begin.
28. The ICR mission judges that in the present depressed economic circumstances it is
unlikely that any of the final operators will generate sufficient surplus in the early years
to service their part of the debt. At about $127,000 each (including initial spare parts),
the MANAS buses may be too expensive to be viable in the deregulated environment of
Kazakhstan today. Vigorous competition from other operators is holding down fares, and
the competitors are operating far cheaper buses -either fully depreciated old Soviet-bloc
models and second-hand West European large buses or inexpensive new minibuses.
Information collected during the ICR mission indicates that in 1998 the companies earned
total revenue per bus of only $20-28,000 per year (Table 6).4 The debt service alone on a
MANAS bus is of the same magnitude. But equally the regional/municipal governments
claim to be very short of funds. So it may end up that the national government has to
cover loan repayment after all, at least for several years until the economy picks up
and/or measures are implemented to restrain the competition. The immediate problem
would be eased for the Regions if the subloans were to be repaid by a constant annuity
(principal and interest), instead of the planned equal instalments of principal (and hence
declining interest).
29. Emergence of local consulting capacity: The international consultants who
provided advice on the policy reform and institutional questions took on the local
transport research institute (NIIT), privatized in 1992, as a subcontractor. Upon
completion of the international consultants' contract in 1996, NIIT took the reins and
continued to provide excellent advisory services through the completion of the project in
1998. An unexpected benefit is emergence of this institute as a technically competent
service provider in its own right, which contributed substantially to the institution-
building process through its studies and advice. There is good potential for these
4 It is suspected that these statistics fail to include the revenue which the driver keeps for himself and his conductor. If
so, total revenue may be somewhat larger. On the other hand, the depreciation of the Tenge in the second quarter
of 1999 has eroded the dollar value of this revenue.



- 8 -
consultants to offer their services in other countries of the former Soviet Union, which
are all tackling the same problems but have made far less progress.
30. Institutional memory: In contrast, institutional memory in the national and local
governments is scarce. Much of the experience in managing the project is being lost with
the creation of the new organizational structures (notably privatization) and completion
of the project. Most of those now staffing the municipal departments regulating the route
licensing system were not involved in earlier stages of the project. Because of budget
shortages their technical capacity remains weak. In effect only NIIT has the resident
capacity to advise and assist these regulators when they need help; but they have no
budget to pay for such services.
E.    Bank Performance
31. Bank staff performed appropriately throughout. That the same staff member
remained task manager/program team leader from start to finish no doubt contributed.
The frequency and intensity of supervision was appropriate and reporting was clear and
fully satisfactory. The appraisal team may be faulted for unrealistic forecasts of the time
it would take to implement the project. But it was subject to great pressure from the
borrower to assure quick delivery, it recognized the risks, and took appropriate measures
to mitigate them. The Government's commitment to reform was well documented in the
detailed PSAP and backed by decrees received before Board approval; the project launch
workshop took place before Board approval, which is exceptional; and the procurement
and disbursement advisors were hired before the loan was signed5 and the main bidding
documents were issued only one month after loan signing.
32. The companies operating the MANAS buses criticize the Bank for "selling" them
buses which are beyond their means and --in the case of Almaty, which has three-fifths of
them-- hard to maintain and unlikely to last their intended working life. The Bank took
pains to address the maintenance problem: it sent a Dutch expert (at no cost to the
Borrower) to evaluate the causes and propose solutions, and it subsequently defined an
assignment (using loan funds) for NIIT to pursue the same questions further. Both
studies were conducted professionally and made useful recommendations. However, the
Almaty companies claim that they cannot afford to implement the recommendations.
33. Maintenance of the Bank-funded buses is also a problem in Russia. In contrast,
similar buses (manufactured by Mercedes Benz) are well maintained in Tashkent
(Uzbekistan). Maintenance is carried out by a specialized workshop directly controled by
a deputy mayor and adequately funded from the city budget. It may be that the bus
companies in Almaty were not prepared technically and institutionally for these types of
buses. Counting on being bailed out of difficulties by the central or city government,
they have not given maintenance the priority it deserves.
34. There is substance to the claim that the buses were too expensive relative to the
purchasing power of the Kazakh consumer. The Bank did not perform an economic cost-
benefit analysis for appraisal or estimate an economic rate of return. At that time cost
5They were hired using the Technical Assistance Loan to help implement all the Bank's early projects.



-9 -
recovery from passengers was so low (5-10%) that it was impossible to judge users'
willingness to pay for better service. Intuitively it was held that the costs to society of a
break-down of public transport capacity were huge; severe overcrowding on the few
aged buses operating was unacceptable. Reduced mobility would hurt the reallocation of
labor to more productive jobs and raise the cost of living. In the severe winters of
Kazakhstan, when the temperature often falls to -40 C in Karaganda and Astana,
passengers forced to endure long waits at bus stops because of breakdowns risked their
very lives6. The only option was to supply full-size buses at the lowest price that could
be obtained by competitive bidding; that is, to take a least-cost approach to the project's
economic evaluation. The number of buses to be bought was dictated by country
borrowing capacity.
35. At the completion stage it remains infeasible to calculate an ER: putting a monetary
value on the benefits to society of the added capacity requires many heroic assumptions
(i.e. wild guesses), and definition of a counter-factual (what would have happened in the
absence of the project?) is open to much conjecture. The exercise could not be relied on
to justify an investment decision. Calculation of a financial return is conceptually
simpler. It is clear that the MANAS buses are (in May 1999) barely covering their
current operating costs, but not the cost of capital. And any forecast of their cash flows
over the next decade is subject to great uncertainty. NIIT has made forecasts for each
Almaty company which show that only determined and sustained efforts to increase
revenues and cut costs, and payment of compensation for any remaining fare exemptions,
will enable them to repay the loan.
36. Were the specifications too high? They were assembled by a give-and-take process
between the client cities' technical specialists (who knew well the Ikarus specifications)
and consultants engaged by the Bank, who were familiar with West European standards.
Parallels were drawn with specifications being prepared for the Urban Transport Loan to
Russia. Suppliers were invited to comment and many did so. West European standards
for engine emissions were adopted at the level prevailing in the early 1990s (Euro I).
Diesel engines are harder to start than gasoline engines when the temperature falls below
-20 C, but are more economical in fuel consumption and the buses specified are cleaner
than the local gasoline-fueled counterparts, which have no catalytic converters. The price
at which the MANAS buses were bought is similar to that which resulted in the Russian
project, where the main winner of the tenders was another Turkish subsidiary of a
German manufacturer, Mercedes Benz Tuirk. The municipal companies did not
contemplate buying smaller buses, and the Bank accepted their argument that full-size
buses were the most economical and that the market demanded such quality. Experience
shows that reality is more complicated. Passengers have affirmed that low fares are more
important to them than service quality, and the free market now prevailing shows that a
mix of bus sizes is warranted. In hindsight, the Bank should perhaps have pushed for
financing a mix of bus sizes.
6 Almaty is at a similar latitude to Denver and, like Denver, is located on the lower slopes of a mountain range
overlooking a plain in the center of a vast continent; its climate is similarly continental. Karaganda is at the same
latitude as Winnipeg and, like Winnipeg, is located amidst plains; its winters are colder than Almaty's.



-10-
37. The controversies over the bid evaluation and maintenance have left many Kazakh
observers critical of the Bank for what they see as rigid procurement rules. This
reputational risk should be taken seriously. Dissemination of the ICR may provide an
opportunity for the borrower and the Bank to review these claims with the wisdom of
hindsight and come to a better understanding.
F.    Borrower Performance
38. At the broad level of the restructuring and privatization of urban transport, the
Government of Kazakhstan's performance has been highly satisfactory. The Bank is now
dealing with urban transport in four other CIS states (Russia, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan
and Kyrgyzstan) and spent a couple of years preparing and negotiating a similar project
with a fifth (Ukraine), but reached no agreement. Kazakhstan has made far greater
strides toward putting urban transport on a firm and sustainable footing than all these
neighbors, except perhaps, later, Uzbekistan. The reforms benefited from the firm
commitment at the highest levels of government to development of the private sector.
They drew on the advice of consultants funded under the Bank loan in designing its
reforms, and showed considerable political courage in enacting them.
39. The regional governments, on the other hand, failed to comply with promises made
under the PSAP to provide compensation for fare exemptions. The ubiquitous shortage
of funds added pressure to eliminate the free travel privileges, since the law on private
enterprises implies that the State may impose no such obligations on private bus
operators without compensation, yet it was incapable of providing compensation.
40. Maintenance of the MANAS buses in Almaty remains a concern. In 1998, the
Almaty city government failed to implement its own action plan to tackle this problem.
A start in implementing this plan (which was based on two sound technical studies - see
para. 32) would have triggered an extension of the loan's closing date and made it
possible to use the remaining $1 million in the loan account.
41. The difficulties encountered in procurement, while substantial, are understandable,
considering that this was Kazakhstan's very first investment loan from an IFI. The
borrower had no previous experience of international competitive bidding and Bank
procedures; all the documentation was in English, which few of the decision-makers
understood.
42. Like the Bank, the Borrower retained the same project manager from start to finish.
He provided valuable continuity. It is to be regretted that, upon completion of the
project, the Ministry of Transport is not keeping him on; his experience remains valuable
as the reform process continues.
G.   Co-financier's Performance
43. The planned study tours funded by the European Commission duly took place in
the first year of project implementation. A total of 45 officials from seven cities visited
West European cities noted for various aspects of urban transport management. The
officials came from the three project cities and four others. The destinations were
selected by consultants who submitted competitive proposals. The tours helped introduce



- 11 -
Kazakh decision-makers to good-practice institutional models for organizing urban
public transport. In hindsight, the choice of cities (Brussels and Thessaloniki) was not
ideal, as they stressed subsidy mechanisms rather than route franchising, but the visits
stimulated the participants to think about alternative models. The consultants
subsequently paid follow-up visits to the Kazakh cities, encouraging them to exchange
views among themselves about the solutions they were testing.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
44. Over all, the completion mission rates the project satisfactory (see Table 1). The
early stages of the project were difficult for both sides, but the final outcome is
conspicuously successful as regards policy reform and transition to a market economy.
The capacity shortage which made urban transport a national emergency in 1993 has
been eliminated. The changes are sustainable. Local consultants have a bright future
exporting their consulting services to other CIS countries.
45. This is not to belittle some unresolved issues. The inability of the Almaty operators
to maintain the MANAS buses adequately continues to cause concern. How will the
maintenance backlog be worked out? Who will generate the funds to repay the loan
remains uncertain. How will the route franchise rights be enforced? Which operators
will survive? If not addressed, these issues will diminish the benefits to be obtained from
the policy progress achieved so far. In Almaty a clearer institutional separation is needed
between the City and the municipal bus companies, which can probably only be obtained
by selling shares to private investors, thereby creating stronger commercial incentives,
and bringing in managers with private-sector experience.
46. The environmental impact of the project will be positive, though small. The new
buses are cleaner-burning and less noisy than those they replace, but they are only a small
part of the bus fleet, and only a tiny part of the total vehicle fleet. The reduction in
emissions per bus is probably offset by the growth in the number of buses. The
expansion of the broader bus fleet may have induced some passengers to continue using
public transport instead of buying a private car, which will have a positive, but again
small, influence on air pollution. Of greater significance will be the future pace of
renewal of the rest of the bus fleet and the consequent scrapping of the oldest and most
polluting buses. But the greatest potential for cleaner air lies in improving the quality of
fuels -which today is low-- and introducing catalytic converters for all gasoline-fueled
vehicles --which most cars manufactured in the CIS lack.
47. The vehicle inspection services required by the Bank under the project are likely to
have a lasting beneficial impact on perception of bus quality among public transport
officials. At the time the project was prepared the concept of independent quality
inspectors was unknown among Kazakh public transport managers. No such function
was performed under the Soviet system. The Bank required that the borrower appoint
inspectors who would have to certify that every bus coming off the supplier's assembly
line met quality standards. Without the inspector's certificate, the Bank would not make
the corresponding disbursement from the loan. Initially the implementing agencies
objected, considering this a waste of money. In contrast, at completion they
acknowledged its value. The first buses delivered came with a number of defects, but



- 12-
thanks to the inspectors' vigilance the number of defects on later deliveries was much
reduced.
48. What impact has the cutback in free and discount travel had on the poorest city
dwellers? The standard fare of 15 KT (12 US cents at the exchange rate of June 1999) is
low compared with many low/middle-income countries. No data have been collected on
how much is spent on transport by the poorest 10-20%, who are probably unemployed
people without families for support. The poorest employed members of the urban
population earn perhaps $50-100 per month. For them, two trips per working day cost
less than 10% of their wage.
I.   Future Operations
49. Any further Bank assistance to urban public transport in Kazakhstan will be of a
different nature, now that operators are all financially independent and many are private.
The Government no longer considers this sector a priority for sovereign borrowing and
the Bank would not recommend further direct purchases of buses in the public sector. On
the other hand, both sides may wish to explore ways to enhance the availability of credit
for operators to renew their fleets, by strengthening the banking system and expanding
credit supply, reducing risks perceived by private lenders, and hence lowering the cost of
credit. Lines of credit for small and medium enterprises or leasing operations may prove
helpful. The IFC is encouraged to explore the market for such operations.
50. The Government is recommended to review the legal framework for leasing,
including collateral provisions, and the tax regime governing bus operators, to ensure that
tax rules are consistent across the various categories of operators and the total tax burden
is not punitive --as alleged by some.
51. To ensure that the gains made so far are sustained, the regional governments are
recommended to strengthen their institutional capacity to monitor enforcement of the
route licenses through inspections, adjust the service levels and packaging of routes as
needed, and consider ways to enhance the bid evaluation criteria for the next round of
tenders.
52. The Almaty government is recommended to carry out the action plan approved by
the mayor in August 1998 but not implemented. It sets out effective ways to solve the
maintenance problem and to organize a body to supervise the route licenses at arms
length from that part of the City administration which acts as owner of the municipal bus
companies.
53. There is considerable interest among the international professional community in
the Kazakh "model" for urban transport reform. The Bank in particular wishes to explore
options for disseminating the lessons of the Kazakh experience in the neighboring states,
as an adjunct to preparation of its urban transport projects in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.



- 13 -
K.  Key Lessons Learned
54. The ICR evaluation suggests that the following lessons can be learned from the
project:
* Contrary to widely held perceptions in the region, it is possible to operate an effective
urban public transport system in a transition economy without subsidy.
* Privatization and the elimination of uncompensated free-travel privileges require firm
commitment at the highest levels of government to development of the private sector
and hard budget constraints in the public sector.
* Centralized purchase of buses through the public sector is sub-optimal. The Bank
accepted to do it in this case because it was the only way open at the time to protect
urban public transport from collapse and respond to a national priority, but ideally
operators should make their own purchase decisions with commercial credit. They
are likely to buy buses of a wider variety of sizes than the former municipal
monopolies.
* Both the Bank and the Borrower should take vehicle maintenance more seriously.
* In future, if the Government wishes to intervene to protect the socially most
vulnerable groups, or compensate for externalities of traffic congestion and air
pollution, it should explore what it can do to help the bus companies strengthen their
finances. Options worth considering include: (a) resolving the conflict between route
licensing and open access to the market, (b) ensuring targeted and sustainable
compensation for any remaining fare privileges, and (c) taking measures to ease
access to commercial credit, improve the legal framework for leasing, and ensure
equal tax treatment for all classes of transport operators.
- Encourage local consulting capacity for long-term sustainability.
* Minimize turnover of Bank task manager and Borrower's project manager throughout
the project, and even beyond.
* Keep it simple.



- 14-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants
Annex 9A: Conditions of Effectiveness
Annex 9B: Covenants Governing Project Implementation
Table 1O: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial      Nlible         Not apicable
Macro Policies                                               El              /
Sector Policies                 1/            E              E               a
Financial Objectives            Cl            /              E               E
Institutional Development      l/                            E               El
Physical Objectives             E             /                              El
Poverty Reduction                                                            E] E    E
Gender Issues                  i:             E              [/
Environmental Objectives        El            E               /              E
Public Sector Management                      E              E               El
Private Sector Development      V             E              E               E
B. Project Sustainability        Likely                 Unlikely              Uncertain
(1)                    (1)                    (il)
/                     E                       E
(Continued)



- 15 -
Highly
C. Bank Perfonnance                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (/)                        (V)
Identification                      [                          /                        U
Preparation Assistance               U                        i/                        [
Appraisal                                                     V/
Supervision                         /                         a                          i
HiEhl
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(00(/                                               (1/)
Preparation                         n                         /                          U
Implementation                      I                                                   I]
Covenant Compliance                  /                         D                        U
Operation                           [                         -/
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
C    /                           O                  Ol



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan title            Purpose            Year approved        Status
Preceding operations
1. Technical Assistance  Institution-building      1993      Closing June '00
2. Rehabilitation     Financing general imports    1993      Closed July '95
Following operations
3. Road Transport     Strengthen institutions for  1999      Signed May '99
Restructuring      road rehab & maintenance
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned      Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               March 10, 1993
Preparation                                              March 20, 1993
Appraisal                                                June20, 1993
Negotiations                                             Dec 17, 1993
Policy Statement and Action Plan                         March 2, 1994
Board Presentation                                       April 7, 1994
Signing                                                  June 8, 1994
Effectiveness                           Sept 6, 1994     Feb 6, 1995
Mid-term review                         July 1995        Not warranted*
Project Completion                      Dec 31, 1996     Sept 30, 1998
Loan Closing                            June 30, 1997    Sept 30, 1998
* By the time a mid term review could have been held, the project had been simplified to
two components, the main bus contract was under execution, and many of the policy
reforms had been enacted by Government Resolution 773 of June 1996.



- 17-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate        24.5   39.6   40.0       -
Actual (CY)                0.0   13.9   35.5   39.0
Actual as % of estimate   13%    35%    89%    98%
Date of final disbursement                              12 31/98
-  ..



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Targets,    Targets,    Actual, 1998
June 1995  June 1996   Total  MANAS
1. Passengers carried per operating veh. per day
Autobus
Almaty                                   1,200      1,200       802     540
Karaganda                                1,350      1,350       232     880
Shymkent (actuals for MAN bus fleet)     1,200      1,200               629
Astana                                    NA          NA        574    1,410
Trolleybus
Almaty, Shymkent                         1,000       1,000    1,305
Karaganda                                 NA          NA        574
2. Km per operating vehicle per day
Autobus                                      220         240
Almaty                                                          194      195
Karaganda                                                       165     216
Shymkent                                                                 177
Astana                                                          194     245
Trolleybus (Almaty)                           190        220       163
3. Availability:
vehicles in service as percent of total fleet
Autobus                                       70          80
Almaty                                                             71
Karaganda                                                          73
Shymkent (MANs only)                                              100
Astana                                                             81
Trolleybus (Almaty)                           80          90          85
4. Avg number of breakdowns as percentage
of buses/trolleybuses in operation each day    12         10
Almaty                                                              8
Karaganda                                                          14
Shymkent (MANs only)                                                0
Astana                                                             14
5. Staff employed per vehicle
(bus, trolleybus and tram)                     4           4
Almaty                                                              2.8
Karaganda                                                           2.9
Shymkent (MANs only)                                                3.2
Astana                                                              4.7
See notes to Table 6



- 19-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Almaty   Karaganda  Shymkent    Astana
1. No. of buses in operation
1993                       1,122        510         350         NA
1998                       1,174        826         944         113
incl. Project MANs        170          56          40          23
2. No. of trolleybuses in
operation (available)
1993                        287          54
1998                        225          20
3. Avg revenue per bus per yr*   $27,900    $20,800    $20,100    $27,800
4. Cost recovery (revenue          86          75        123          75
as % of operating costs)
Municipal subsidies              3           8           6           0
as % of total revenue
5. Fare
Onetrip                       15         14          10          15
Monthly pass (full fare)    600         900         600       1,200
Monthly pass (discount)     300         450       340/170       250
6. Bidders for route licenses
1997 average                   1          1           3
1997 maximum                  2           2           7
1999 average                  3                       1.5
1999 maximum                  10
Source: data supplied to Completion mission by MoT
Most 1998 data refer to fleet operated by winners of route licenses, including private
operators, but not "pirates". However, operating data for Shymkent and Astana refer only
to the municipal companies which operate the MAN buses procured under the project.
* Average revenue is calculated per available bus @ US$1 = 77 KT



- 20 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                          Purpose as defined at  Status       Impact
appraisal
1. Institutional Strengthening    Advise on UPT policy  Completed   Substantial
reform & de-monopolization
2. Procurement Advisor      Advise PIU on procurement  Completed   Substantial
3. Disbursement Advisor     Advise PIU on disbursement  Completed   Moderate
4. Vehicles Inspection Services  Certify quality of new buses  Completed   Substantial
5. Study tours (EC-funded)  Expose decision-makers to    Completed   Moderate
European good practice
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate              Actual
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                           Local Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
1. Purchase of c. 300 new buses  0.5    28.0   28.5                        36.7
2. Rehabilitation of about 550
buses & 400 trolleybuses      0.7      8.3    9.0                         0
3. Training & technical assistance    0.6  2.2    2.8                       2.8
4. Equipment                             0.3    0.3                         0.1
Base Cost                        1.8    38.8   40.6                        39.6
Price Contingencies            0.1     1.7    1.8
Total                            1.9    40.5   42.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate              Actual
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
IBRD                            0.3    39.7   40.0                        39.0
EC-TACIS                         -       0.6    0.6                        0.6
Domestic contributions          1.6      -      1.6      NA
Total                           1.9    40.5   42.2                        39.6



- 21 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan
Agree-    Cove-  Present Original  Revised         Description of Covenant                 Comments
ment     nant    Status  Fulfillmt Fulfilimt
Section    Type             Date     Date
3.01 (b)    13      C                       Borrower to make project goods and  Acceptable Implementation Program,
services available to local govemments  including many decrees from central
and project companies under        and local govts and company orders,
Implementation Program acceptable to   submitted by March 94.
the Bank
3.03       5       C                       Borrower to maintain PIU with       PIU was weakly staffed initially but
functions, procedures and staffing  maintained appropriate procedures
acceptable to Bank                 and reporting.
4.02      2        C                       Project companies to maintain debt  Project companies had no long-term
service ratio of at least 2:1      debt, only short-term debt to
suppliers.
4.03      2        C                       Passenger transport fares to be no less    Due date was by time half of new
than 25% of operating cost (excluding    buses were put into operation. Latter
depreciation) of transport per passenger.  was delayed; by the time half buses
delivered, cost recovery was about
50%.
5.01 and    13      CD,                      Right of Borrower to make withdrawals   Many aspects of the Implementation
5.02*              CP                       from LA may be suspended or canceled   Program were carried out but late and
if a local govt or project company fails to far less compensation for free-travel
perform any of its obligations under the   privileges was paid than intended.
Implementation Program
Covenant types:                                                                 Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                  8. = Indigenous people                    C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries       10. = Project implementation not covered by  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds  categories 1-9                      NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding               11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation
executing agency                    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement          13. = Other
* Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the Loan Agreement in fact mention remedies, not covenants. This was the way (deemed
preferable at the time of loan negotiations) to note in the Loan Agreement the Borrower's commitment to carry out the
Implementation Program.



- 22 -
Annex 9A: Conditions of Effectiveness
1.   Adoption of decrees and orders by the local governments and the project
companies, acceptable to the Bank, complementing the Implementation Program
-fulfilled: decrees signed by Mayor ofAlmaty and heads of Karaganda and
Shymkent Oblasts and orders signed by the general managers of the project companies
were submitted to the March 1994 mission.
2.   Submission of an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for reducing the shortage of
drivers in Almaty
-fulfilled: action plan for reducing the shortage of drivers of trams and
trolleybuses in Almaty was submitted to the March 1994 mission by the general manager
of the tram/trolleybus company and explanations were given by the manager of the bus
company about reduced training requirements and higher wages to be paid. Showed
reluctance to break the tradition that one driver was responsible for the same vehicle.
- By time of September 1995 supervision mission, no shortage of drivers was
perceived
3.   Adequate staffing and organization of the PIU in the Ministry of Economy
- By time of March 94 mission, had adequate local andforeign staff and a
generally satisfactory organization so that it couldfulfill its responsibilities. Foreign
financial (i.e. disbursement) advisor, who started work in June 1994, ensured that it put
in place satisfactory recording and accounting procedures to monitor loan
disbursements.
Effectiveness was delayed five months by debate within Kazakhstan over whether the
loan had to be ratified by the parliament.
Annex 9B: Covenants Governing Project Implementation
1.  Implementation of the PSAP and Implementation Program
Policy Statement and Action Plan for Improving Public Transport Services
in Almaty, Karaganda and Shymkent
Tariffs: Gradually raise tariffs to level where single-ticket price covers operating costs
(excluding investment cost) of transport per passenger. Ensure that increases more than
keep pace with inflation. By June 30, 1995 will be equal to 55% of operating cost. Govt
will carry out study of demand, cost, affordability and tariffs in project cities, aimed at
formulating guidelines on when and how full cost recovery can be reached; study to be
completed by March 31, 1995. As interim measure, passenger fares will be increased so
as to cover 25% of operating cost of transport per passenger when half of the buses
financed under the Project are put into operation in each city.
Expected to occur in the first half of 1995, actually occurred more than a year later.



- 23 -
Exemptions and discounts will be reviewed with a view to limiting them to the most
needy groups. Collection of fares wrill be tightened up and more effective control system
put in place.
A study will be carried out into these two issues before March 31, 1995, and measures
shown to be necessary will be taken by June 30, 1995.
Study was carried out a year late. Thefirst major policy changes were decided a year
late (June 1996 decree) and others followed later.
Subsidies: Local governments are authorized to levy special taxes for the purpose of
funding urban transport, sufficient to allow services to be provided under reasonable
technical standards and minimum acceptable levels of quality.
As basis for determining subsidy levels, companies will submit operating budgets and
investment plans for review, incorporating agreed improvements in efficiency
(productivity targets were agreed at negotiations and shown in SAR) and strategy to
renew fleets and equipment.
By December 31, 1994 companies will review the methodologies and procedures for
preparing their budgets; and local governments will review the procedures for
submission and analysis of subsidy requests. Decisions will be taken thereafter so that an
adequate subsidy system can be used starting on March 31, 1995.
Special passenger transport tax was abolished on July 1, 1995.
Privatized companies continued to submit their financial plans as basis for negotiation of
compensation through 1998. Not needed thereafter, when subsidies were all but
eliminated
Governance: Companies will be fully autonomous in their management decisions, under
strategies and guidelines defined by their owners, the local governments. Detailed
contracts between Municipalities and senior managers of Companies will define their
objectives (particularly routes and frequencies) and efficiency. Similar contracts will be
signed between Company senior managers and heads of depots. Achievement of the
objectives will be measured against agreed indicators and part of the salary of senior and
depot managers will depend on their results.
Companies' legal status, charters and contracts will be reviewed with view to
streamlining setting and measuring of performance. Capacity of local governments to
supervise will also be improved. Study to achieve this will be carried out before March
31, 1995 and decisions taken on an improved system of governance, so that contracts can
be piloted in second half of 1995 and generalized starting January 1996.
All greatly delayed by the late hiring of consultants and initially unsatisfactory
performance of consultant. Close informal ties continue to bindformer municipal bus
companies to the municipal regulators.
Performance indicators have not played a big role. As supply has diversified, as to both
private ownership and bus size, onlyfinancial indicators count -which is as it should be.



- 24 -
Competition: UPT will be open to any operator, subject only to national standards
governing safety and pollution and minimum level of professional capability. No other
restrictive rules will be imposed [including fare-exempt passengers] and operators will be
free to set fares.
Govermment will review licensing standards by March 31, 1995 and decide by June 30,
1995 on necessary improvements. Also by June 30, 1995 will prepare competitive
tendering measures, and implement them on a pilot basis on at least two routes in each
City by end 1995.
More than fulfilled, once implementation picked up speed.
Infirst and second tender rounds in 1997, no incumbent ex-municipal operators were
displaced Only in 1998/9 did competition start to heat up.
Implementation Program:
Decree adopted by Cabinet of Ministers with (i) a description of the goods and services
financed under the Project to be granted to the local governments; (ii) a description of
key conditions for such grants; and (iii) instructions to the local govermnents to
implement the decree.
Buses were transferred, not as a grant, but as subloans, at the same interest rate and 12-
year repayment period as the Bank's loan but 4 years of grace (one year less than the
Bank loan, because they started a year later, so that repayments ofprincipal would
coincide with those of main loan). The Bank was not consulted on this change, nor on
the terms. It accepted the change and the terms as reasonable. The completion mission
noted the strong concern expressed by all municipalities, on behalf of the municipal bus
companies operating the MAN buses, about their ability to repay the subloans, given the
squeeze between their costs and their revenues, as fares are fixed by the cities at levels
generally sufficient to cover operating costs but not depreciation, and some fare
discounts remain uncompensated. Competition from low-cost operators is also keeping
fares low. In Almaty the obligation to repay has been passed down to the operating
companies, but not elsewhere. The other cities passed the buses on to the bus companies
on a grant basis in lieu of compensation for free travel.
2.   Debt service coverage ratio of not less than 2:1 to be maintained at all times by the
project companies
Since none carried significant debt, this condition took second place to basic coverage of
operating costs and depreciation -which few achieved.
3.   Passenger fares to cover at least 25% of the operating cost of transport per
passenger (excluding investment costs) by the time half or more of the new buses
financed under the project are put into operation.
As the deliveries were delayed more than a year, cost coverage improved to levels well
above this target before half the buses were delivered.



- 25 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Actual
Stage of project cycle        Weeks   US$000    Weeks    US$000
Preparation to Appraisal                                     12          34
Appraisal                                                    43         128
Negotiations through Board approval                          13          45
Supervision                             52                  123         335
Completion                                5                   4          20
Total                                                 195         577
Table II: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance             Typtsnof
Stage of project cycle  Month/    No. of Days in Specialization'   Implem.    Developm.  Tpes of
Year    Persons  Field                     Status      objectives
Identification/Preparation  Mar 93     5       26    TE, FA, E, Op
Appraisal               Jun 93         3       14        TE, E
Pre Board approval      Mar 94         2       10        TE, Pr         S            HS           Pr
Supervision 1           Jul 94         2       11       TE, FA          S            S            Pr
Supervision 2           Nov 94         1                  TE            U            S
Supervision 3           Sep 95         1       7          TE            U            S            Pr
Supervision 4           Mar/Apr 96     1        8         TE            S            S          Pr, PM
Supervision 5           Jul 96         2                TE, FA          S            S
Supervision 6           Nov 96         2       17        TE, E          S            S
Supervision 7           Apr 97         3               TE, E, FA        S            S
Supervision 8           Oct 97         2        9        TE, E           S           S
Supervision 9           Apr 98         2       12*       TE, E
Supervision 10          May/Jun 98     1                  FA
Supervision 11          Jul 98         2                 TE, E
Completion              May 99         1       12         TE             S           HS
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
TE: transport economist             HS: Highly satisfactory        Pr: procurement
Pr: procurement                     S: Satisfactory                PM: project management
E: engineer                         U: Unsatisfactory
FA: financial analyst
Op: operations specialist
* Main purpose of mission was to prepare Road Transport Restructuring Project



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION TIME LINE
Date             Loan agreement covenant                                   Actual event
Summer                                             Contract signed with Crown Agents
1993                                               (procurement advisors for IBRD operations)
1994
Mar 15-16                                          Project launch workshop
April 7                                            Board approved loan
June 8                                             Loan signed
June 20                                            PIU (MinEcon)'s foreign disbursement advisor (Mr. Bhatnagar) started
work, funded from IBRD Technical Assistance loan.
End June                                           Proposals for EC-TACIS funded study tours opened.
July 4                                             Proposals for main consultancy opened
(policy reform and institutional restructuring).
July 11                                            Bus bid documents issued.
July                                               Mission reported Govt to on-lend to Regions for buses, not pass them on as
grant.
July                                               Mission reported fares now 20-30% of operating costs (excluding
depreciation). Almaty provided substantial subsidies.
Sept 6     Loan to become effective
September  Main consultants expected to start
Sept 21                                            Bids for buses opened.
Sept 28                                            Bank approved Govt's choice of main consultant.
Dec 5-16                                           Study tour to Brussels
Dec 31     Actions due under PSAP:
companies to review budget preparation
methods and municipal govts to review bases
for deciding subsidies/ compensation



Appendix A
Feb 6      _                                       Loan declared effective (5 months late)
Feb 28                                             Govt sent Bank bus bid evaluation report.
Mar 13-24                                          Study tour to Thessaloniki
March 31   Numerous actions due under PSAP:
(i) study of fares, costs, exemptions and
subsidies to be completed; (ii) improved
subsidy system to be introduced; (iii) study
on bus company governance to be completed;
(iv) Govt to have reviewed licensing of
operators.
April 21                                           Bank objected to Govt's evaluation of bus bids.
June 30    Further actions due under PSAP:
(i) fares will reach 55% of operating costs;
(ii) improved subsidy system will be
introduced; (iii) narrowing of exemptions,
effective fare collection/control system, and
any other measures recommended by study
on fares & exemptions will be adopted; (iv)
Govt will decide on revisions to operator
licensing criteria and regulatory framework
for private sector; and (v) Govt will
announce route tendering procedures.
July I                                             Govt abolished passenger transport tax
July 6                                             Govt signed contract with Louis Berger
(12 months after proposals received)
JulY       Mid-term review                         (not carried out - see comment to Table 3))
August                                             Louis Berger team mobilized.



Appendix A
Sept 23                                           Contract signed with Nissho Iwai for 240 MANAS buses. (12 months after
bid opening)
Mission reported Almaty bus company had no arrears and vehicles were
September                                         better maintained. Cost recovery in Almaty now 35-50% of operating cost.
September                                         Govt proposed deleting rehabilitation of Ikarus buses and reallocating the
corresponding $6 million to purchase of 50-55 additional new buses.
September                                         Mission reported Almaty Tram/Trolleybus Company was having difficulty
reconciling procurement to Bank requirements.
September                                         Mission reported TACIS study tours completed
._________________ _    (45 officials from  3 Project cities &  4 others).
September                                         Mission reports problems with main consultant
September                                         Mission reported Almaty no longer had shortage of drivers.
Oct-Nov                                           Accelerated hiring of inspection services to put them in place in time for
first MANAS delivery.
December                                          Contract signed with SGS for inspection services
By Dec 31  Under PSAP: First two bus routes in each
city will be tendered as pilot operation.
1996
January 1  Promised in PSAP: Tendering of bus routes
will be generalized, adequate governance
system adopted                               ._
Febmary                                           First MANAS buses delivered.
June 24                                           Decree 773 issued, mandating legal separation of municipal bus companies
and tendering of all routes.
July 17                                           Seminar in Almaty to disseminate Decree 773's concepts
September                                         Last of the initial 240 MANAS buses delivered.
Oct 21                                            First route tender held in Shymkent.
November                                          Amendment 2 to Nissho Iwai's contract signed for further 26 buses and
spare parts.



Appendix A
November                                          Mission reported agreement with ATC for limited procurement of
trolleybus spare parts and workshop equipment. (not implemented)
November                                          Mission agreed to MOT shopping for office equipment.
November                                          Mission agreed with revised letter of invitation to auditing companies to
audit company accounts.
Nov 29                                            Louis BergerNlIT final report submitted.
Dec 13                                            Extension of SGS contract for inspection services sent to Bank for no
objection.
Dec 13                                            Contract with NIIT to continue implementation assistance sent to Bank for
no objection.
1997
Spring                                            Govt decided not to implement trolleybus rehabilitation, considering ATC's
difficulties in procuring spare parts.
June 13                                           Loan closing date extended one year to June 1998
June 30    Original Loan closing date
July 31                                           NIIT submitted main report on institutional strengthening
October                                           Mission reported Karaganda and Shymkent had increased fares and reduced
exemptions to compensate for lack of subsidies, but Almaty had not.
October                                           Mission first warned of "potentially serious problem" of inadequate
maintenance of MANAS buses in Almaty, flagged by Nissho Iwai and
_MANAS. Mission recommended maintenance be decentralized.
October                                           Mission reported Govt ready to privatize municipal bus companies by
auction. Mission expressed concern that privatization might lead MANAS
buses to be reassigned to non-Project purposes.
October                                           Mission noted lack of response from auditors invited to audit company
accounts, agreed that Loan Agreement should be amended to delete
I company accounts from audit requirement.



Appendix A
Dec 17                                            Bank agrees to reallocate last $1.9 million, mostly for buses for Astana, and
approves loan amendment to bring in Astana Oblast and urban bus
company as Project implementing agencies. Astana to receive 23 buses
(Nissho Iwai's Amendment 3).
Dec 24                                            $0.5 million worth of MANAS bus spare parts destroyed in fire in Almaty.
1998
March                                             Mr. Diderik visited Almaty to study bus maintenance problem under Swiss
trust fund.
April                                             Mission discussed with Govt solutions to problems of (a) bus maintenance,
and (b) companies' financial difficulties, agreed to further contract with
NIIT to develop action plan.
April                                             Mission agreed on allocation of remaining $1.1 million of Loan, to re-
establish stock of spare parts and two more buses for Akmola.
(not implemented)
May 20                                            NIIT delivered Action Plan on bus maintenance and company finances.
June                                              Asked to keep Loan open another year, Bank extended closing date to Sept
30, 1998, pending Govt action to stabilize financial situations of bus
companies
August                                            Mayor of Almaty issued action plan (drafted by NIIT).
(not implemented)
Sept 30    Closing date (2nd amendment)           In absence of Govt action, Bank closed Loan.
Dec 31                                            Final disbursement made



- 31 -                             Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 3725-KZ)
Government Evaluation Report'
A - Final Report to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
on the City Passenger Transport Project 3725-KZ
1. For the bids evaluation, a full set of documentation had to be translated into Russian.
If the World Bank and the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism of the Republic
of Kazakhstan had agreed upon the bids evaluation criteria beforehand, the long delay with
bidding procedures could have been avoided2. True, requirements to bidders were overstated (on
training, spare parts etc.). The Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism of the
Republic of Kazakhstan, taking into account the purchasing capacity of the Kazakhstani market,
consider 60-70 thousand USD to be the optimal price for buses in the present market situation.
The procurement of buses with the involvement of the Nissho Iwai Corporation (NIC) as a
commercial agent was more preferable since the Ministry of Transport, Communications and
Tourism of the RK had already acquired some similar experience. By that point of time the NIC
had its representative office in Almaty which facilitated the choice.
2. Due to the fact that Russian monopolies manufacturing spare parts for trolley-buses
refused to accept the World Bank terms of payment and procurement, the Bank decided to
exclude the component on trolley-buses in accordance with internationally accepted standard
requirements3. As a result, the trolley-bus fleet of the Republic of Kazakhstan has kept
deteriorating and at present 80 % of the rolling stock is beyond the specified service time.
3. A complete withdrawal of trolley-buses and trams and substitution by diesel buses
does not seem justified. It would be more sensible to retain and renew the existing fleet for
environmental reasons: in largest cities of the country there is an urgent need to resolve the air
pollution problem.
4. It has to be admitted that the international consultant (Louis Berger and Sofretu) had
some internal contradictions which caused certain difficulties with the project implementation.
1 Note from the Bank ICR preparation team: The Government Evaluation Report also included statistics and
information on urban passenger transport operations in the four project cities. These were used in the preparation of
the ICR and especially of the ICR's Tables 5 and 6.
2 Note from the Bank ICR preparation team: The bid evaluation methodology was agreed with the Ministry of
Transport and described in the bidding documents for the procurement of the new buses before the bidding process
started..
3 Note from the Bank ICR preparation team: After considering several options for the purchase of spare parts for
trolleybus rehabilitation, and concluding that these were not feasible, the Government proposed to cancel the related
project component, which the Bank accepted.



- 32 -                            Appendix B
As a matter of fact, from December of 1996 to July of 1997 the NIIT JSC acted as a general
contractor engaged by the World Bank4 to implement the final component of the project - "The
Institutional Development of the Urban Passenger Transport of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Part
II" - which seems a unique practice for Kazakhstani consultants. The lessons of the project
implementation are as follows:
(i) There are consulting companies in command of up-to-date know-hows and they are
working in highly developed market conditions. Many of them enjoy authority with
international financial institutions and are recruited to render assistance to developing countries.
Regretfully, these consultants frequently display lack of knowledge and experience related to
local specifics as well as political, economic and technical peculiarities of project regions which
not only makes their work really difficult but also complicates the adaptation of up-to-date
technologies in developing regions. On the other hand, the number of highly qualified local
experts trained/retrained by leading international consultants and capable of providing high-
quality consulting services is constantly increasing. Since these local experts have a better
understanding of local specifics their involvement could enhance the efficiency of assistance
offered to developing regions.
(ii) Based on the above, it seems reasonable to suggest that in the future participation of
the beneficiary in project implementation should not be reduced to recruitment of local
specialists for consulting or expertise. It would be fair, while implementing such projects, to
provide equal opportunities both for competent local organizations and foreign companies.
5. It should also be noted that urban passenger transport of the Republic of Kazakhstan
has undergone considerable restructuring. The RK Government Resolution # 773 "On
Demonopolization of the Public Urban Passenger Transport", dated June 24, 1996, was the most
important step towards restructuring. It set forth the following objectives:
*  liquidation of regional monopolistic transport amalgamations and provision of
complete economic independence of transport enterprises;
*  establishing regional transport departments as state authorities entitled to regulate
passenger transport without interfering in their economic activities;
*  organizing and conducting tenders for city bus routes and concluding contracts with
winners;
* privatization of urban passenger transport enterprises;
* resolving the problem of social privileges provided to certain groups of passengers.
The above restructuring has been carried out all over the territory of Kazakhstan. The
reforms were initiated from the "top", without preliminary public discussion but the social
factors involved had been taken into account to the maximum extent possible. No cardinal
changes have been observed in sectoral policy ever since.
4 Note from the Bank ICR preparation team: The NIIT JSC was engaged by the Government. The Bank cleared the
Government's proposal that NIIT's services be funded out of the Loan.



-33 -                           Appendix B
6. In Kazakhstan bidding procedures have been carried out for more than two years.
During the above period the number of bids for bus routes has varied from region to region. For
example, in 1997 when the restructuring of urban passenger transport was initiated in the cities
of Almaty, Karaganda, Temirtau and Semipalatinsk the number of bus companies bidding for
specific packages of routes did not exceed two. The operators submitted bids for the routes
(packages of routes) on which they used to carry passengers. In Shymkent in 1997 the number of
bids for each package of routes varied from two (minimum) to seven (maximum). In 1999 the
tenders conducted in Almaty testified to the increased level of competition: there were several
transport companies bidding for each route and the number of bidders for some routes reached
ten (see the Table below).
Cities/Years        Average Number of Bidders   Maximum Number of
Per Lot              Bidders Per Lot
Almaty          1997                 1                        2
1999                 3                       10
Karaganda        1997                  1                       2
Shymkent         1997                2-3                       7
In most cities of Kazakhstan the tender results were quite predictable because the number
of bidders seldom exceeded two (about 80 %). Now, due to the growing number of new private
carriers and the changed legal status of bus depots previously owned by the state competition has
increased. Therefore, it is difficult to predict tender results. The bidding procedures thoroughly
developed by the Anti-Monopoly Committee and NIIT CJSC with major requirements to bid
winners specified lowered the risk of taking subjective decisions. The main factors which
allowed to mitigate the risks are as follows:
* use of the scoring system to determine the winner;
- deterrnining the winner by the bidder's code number when the tender
committee members are unaware of the lot bidders' names;
- increased number of members in tender committees.
There have been no formal claims submitted by transport companies which confirns the
above. But bidding procedures cannot yet be regarded as absolutely impartial and transparent
and in Almaty the issue of improving them further on remains topical.
The structure of urban passenger transport has undergone considerable changes. Before
the restructuring began in this sector there existed only state-owned property. Now the share of
state-owned property has decreased and, as a result, private carriers prevail in this market.
7. The decision on restructuring urban passenger transport in Kazakhstan was made on
the following basis. First of all, there was political commitment to facilitating market reforms in
the country. Urban transport is not the only example available. Public utilities and the pension
system are being restructured resolutely as well. Secondly, budgets of all levels faced financial
problems. Due to the lack of funds local executive bodies had contemplated the necessity of



- 34 -                            Appendix B
restructuring the transport sector in any case. The following difficulties that arose during the
sub-sector restructuring should be outlined:
* overcoming the principle of unconditioned subsidizing of urban passenger transport;
* overcoming the social tension caused by growing fares and abolition of various
privileges previously enjoyed by some groups of urban transport passengers;
* low revenues which cannot enable operators to replace fully depreciated buses .
The culture of service providing and interrelations between carriers and passengers can
hardly change conspicuously within such a short period of time. But still, there are some
obvious changes for the better - carriers start to compete for passengers, at least, increasing the
number of routes available. In cities of Kazakhstan municipal monopoly operators do not exist
any more. Tender terms are equal for all participants of the transport services market willing to
operate on city routes. But still, there is some difference between the activities of former
municipal monopolies and new independent operators. The former have been corporatized in
such a way that their complete blocks of shares are held by the state. That is why local executive
bodies oblige them to carry privileged passengers. Private operators ignore most of the existing
privileges. In the Republic of Kazakhstan the system of privileges has been fully revised. The
privileges have been replaced with special state allowance to certain categories of citizens which
ensures equal opportunities for competition among operators active in the transport services
market.
8. Currently, local executive bodies still provide privileges to some categories of
citizens, particularly pensioners. The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the RK
Law "On Protection and Support of Private Enterprise" grant the right to free enterprise and
prohibit state interference in economic activities of enterprises in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As follows from the above, the state shall ensure opportunities for free enterprise and cannot
force companies to provide free-of-charge services to certain categories of consumers selected by
the state. On the other hand, the privileges are granted to some categories of passengers
legislatively and they have to be provided the opportunity to enjoy them as contemplated by the
law. It is evident that the state has to grant both rights - for free enterprise and privileges for
passengers - simultaneously. Under the circumstances the situation could be regarded as a
"blank" in the RK legislation. Recently there have been taken measures to eliminate the above
contradictions. The main mechanism, as it has already been mentioned, is the substitution of
privileges for targeted allowances. Currently, the situation could be described as follows. Local
executive bodies pay carriers compensations to cover part of their costs related to privileged
passengers transportation. In addition to that, categories of privileged passengers are being
reduced at the local level. The above measures refer equally to all transport operators but
independent carriers still ignore the remaining privileges. The freedom of carriers providing
transport services is restricted by the highest tariff level established. The highest rate slightly
varies depending on the type of service - ordinary city route, express route or route taxi mode.
The established highest rate varies accordingly.



-35-                            Appendix B
9. Currently, expenditures and revenues of transport companies involved in urban
passenger transport are about the same level. Thus, contingencies, as a rule, cause an increase in
the liabilities of companies and, as a result, continuous shortage of funds reduces their capacity
to renew the fleet to the extent of inability.
10. As far as vehicle maintenance and repairs are concerned, the situation keeps
deteriorating mainly due to transport companies' attempts to save funds. The technical condition
of vehicles run by independent operators is far beyond any criticism, especially when they
subcontract owners of private buses.
11. Technical inspectors assistance (the Supplier's) has proved to be of some benefit to
specialists of Almaty, Shymkent, Karaganda and Astana. Local specialists have been trained in
maintenance and operation of MAN buses.
12. The implementation of the project could not have a great impact on air pollution in
the cities which received MAN buses. Their percentage in the total fleet is quite low, and despite
their high individual environmental characteristics, the overall environmental impact is found to
be minimal. No special environmental surveys related to the project implementation have been
carried out in the cities of Kazakhstan. Some positive aspects of using new buses could be
attributed to their individual characteristics, such as lower smoke content in their exhaust
emissions and lower noise level. But due to the poor quality of maintenance the initial positive
effect is regressing. Proper maintenance of MAN buses cannot be ensured without adequate
technical base.
13. Within the framework of the project extension/development monitoring of the
transport reforn as a whole and, specifically, economic review of the results achieved were
supposed to be carried out. Regretfully, the World Bank project has been terminated. But no
activities of this kind have been undertaken because the Ministry of Transport, Communications
and Tourism or local authorities did not display any interest in them.
B - Supplementary Information
on the Implementation of the Urban Passenger Transport Restructuring Project
Financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
The loan of 40 million USD was provided to the Republic of Kazakhstan by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) for urban passenger transport
restructuring. The Loan Agreement 3275-KZ was signed by the RK President's order on June 8,
1994 in Washington and ratified by the Supreme Soviet of the Republic of Kazakhstan on
December 22, 1994. The loan repayment period is 15 years with a floating interest rate of 7 %.
The loan was utilized to ensure adequate carrying capacity of passenger transport in the three
largest cities of Kazakhstan - Almaty, Karaganda and Shymkent. The City of Akmola was
included in the list of project cities in 1997.



- 36 -                          Appendix B
In accordance with Resolution # 1062 ( August 2, 1995) of the Cabinet of Ministers of th-
Republic of Kazakhstan and Amendments to it the executive bodies assigned responsible for the
implementation of the project were administrations of the Karaganda, South Kazakhstan and
Akmola Oblasts and the City of Almaty. To obtain the loan funds the heads of the above
administrations had to sign internal agreements with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of
Kazakhstan on the repayment of the loan to the republican budget.
1. The major component of the loan was procurement of new buses carried out under the
ICB method. There had been received 22 bids from 16 leading vehicle manufacturers.
In compliance with the IBRD procedures and regulations the bids evaluation was carried
out in two stages. As a result, "Nissho Iwai Corporation" (NIC) which offered the MAN SL 232
bus was recognized the winner. The Evaluation Committee's proposal on awarding the contract
to NIC was approved by the World Bank in the letter of July 27, 1995. On August 9 - 11 of 1995
the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) of the Republic of Kazakhstan
conducted negotiations with the NIC and on September 23, 1995 a contract for procurement of
240 buses was signed. All the 240 buses envisaged in the contract had been delivered (Almaty -
160, Karaganda - 48 and Shymkent - 32).
2. As far as the second component of the project is concerned, the situation developed as
follows: the component contemplated procurement of spare parts for the existing fleet of Ikarus
buses (6.3 million USD) and trolley-buses (2.0 million USD). But spare parts for Ikarus buses (3
543 524.10 USD) were procured under the IBRD rehabilitation loan, and, since the time of
project designing part of the fleet had been written off, there was no need to procure spare parts
-under the urban transport loan. In November of 1995 the Ministry of Transport and
Comrnunication of the Republic of Kazakhstan sent a letter to the IBRD with a request to
reallocate the remaining loan funds for procurement of additional buses via a 4.0 million USD
extension to the contract with the NIC. On November 14, 1996 the parties signed the Extension
worth 4.0 million USD for procurement of 26 additional buses (Almaty - 10, Karaganda - 8 and
Shymkent - 8) and spare parts. All the additional buses and spare parts were received in March
of 1997.
In addition to the above, on April 1 of 1997 there was signed another extension for
procurement of 14 buses and spare parts worth 2.2 million USD. The decision was facilitated by
Russian spare parts manufacturing monopolies' requirement of the 1 00-% prepayment without
providing any guarantee of delivery, as well as insurance against transportation risks.
According to the delivery schedule the 14 MAN SL 232 buses were to be shipped on
July 23, 1997. But at that time the Ministry of Finance suspended payments under the project
and the Supplier had to put off the shipment. The buses had been delivered to Akmola by
November 15, 1997. This deviation from the schedule entailed additional expenditures related to
repeated recruitment of transport companies to deliver the buses to their destination (ferry,
railways).



- 37 -                          Appendix B
3. Under the third component the contract was signed with ALSI for procurement of
office equipment for the MOTC. The equipment was delivered in November of 1996.
4. Under the fourth component there were signed two contracts. The first one, worth 1.7
million USD, was concluded on July 6, 1995 between the MOTC and Louis Berger/Sofretu
(France) for consulting services related to "Institutional Strengthening of Urban Passenger
Transport". The services of the first stage have been provided.
The second contract under the component to a total value of 250 000 USD was concluded
on December 21, 1995 between the MOTC and SGS (Switzerland) for the inspection of
assembly, testing and quality control of 240 buses at the manufacturers' premises. The services
have been provided.
In order to procure additional buses an extension to the contract was signed afterwards.
The IBRD approved of allocating 200 000 USD to contract NIIT JSC for consulting services
under the component on "Institutional Strengthening of Urban Passenger Transport in the
Republic of Kazakhstan". The contract has been successfully executed.
At the request of the RK Government the IBRD agreed to allocate the remaining loan
funds to facilitate the development of urban transport in Akmola.
On September 25, 1997, following the agreement with the IBRD, RK Ministry of Finance
atnd Akimat of the Akmola Oblast signed a sub-loan agreement to ensure the repayment of the
loan funds disbursed to the republican budget.
Twenty-three buses with spare parts to a total value of 3.3 million USD have been
supplied to Astana. An agreement to procure under the loan two additional buses and special
tools worth 300 000 USD for Astana was achieved.
The loan closing date was June 30, 1998 but since the project was planned to be
terminated in 1997 financing of the project was not envisaged in the republican budget for 1998.
In June of 1997 the RK Ministry of Finance suspended the financing of the project and that was
why the loan funds could not have been disbursed as scheduled. At the request of the RK
Government the World Bank prolonged the loan closing date to September 30, 1998 on condition
that the Akimat of the City of Almaty should develop and implement an Action Plan to provide
for the institutional, financial and technical strengthening of passenger transport companies of
Almaty operating the buses supplied under the project. The Akimat of Almaty failed to
implement the Action Plan and the Urban Passenger Transport Restructuring Project was closed.
As of January 1, 1998 the value of goods and services provided under the project totaled
to 38 993 030 US dollars.
Marie Laygo
P:\KAZAKHST\INFRAWURBTRANS\71CR\ICRKAZ2.DOC
07/08/99 5:01 PM



MAP SECTION



50~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~60-                                                             7                                               800                                                900
0     100    200    300    400 Kilometers
To Chelyasbinsk                                                                                                       10020 Mle
gr,  k                                 200 Miles~~~~~~~~~~90
To Xx  ~ ~ ~~-                    AZKI-STAN                                                          To Bomnoul
Sorato~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~ns* PAVLODA                                                                                                              s
K  OLA              Ekiba~~~~~sluz 
STANAI ~               TA                                                                                                   4
KAZAKHSTAN
Word Bok.Th0hossdkser
celors, denominationshezkaghoAd
@    REGION CAPITALS  - noy ether info olson s/some ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Balhas
-.   -  REGION BOUND~ARE                              ofr N.socO                 DAs  /n
'0  -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES ~~~~~~~~~~rs~~7CO                       AFGHANISTAN    70'                                                                              80~~~S
00                                          I                                                                      I                I                                                                              tOt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-  r  o



