Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12214-UZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAXHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MARCH 2, 1994
he,pc3rt, ':|.   'L; ':: 1I'; ....
TvPc: ;;bR
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
Thi document hw a restricted d_trIbuaou and may be uwed by  only in te peronmsnce of
their officid dues lt  ontens may t  otherwse be dicbosed  Woldd Bank  thoratlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit before November 1993 = Ruble
Currency Unit as of November 1993 = Tenge
per US$
June 1992            100 Rubles
March 1993           685 Rubles
October 1993       2,500 Rubles
December 1993      4.7 Tenge
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
FSU         -     former Soviet Union
GDP         -     gross domestic product
IBRD        -     Inenatia Bnk for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         -      n aa competve bidding
iS          -     intnational shopping
MOE         -     Ministry of Economy
MOT         -     Minstry of Transport
NBRK        -     National Bank for Rqeblic of Kazakhstan
NIAT        -     National Instiute of Automobile Transport
PCR         -     Proect Completion Report
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PPAR        -     Project Performance Audit Report
PSAP        -     Policy Statement and Action Plan for Improving Public Trnport Services
in Almaty, Karnda, and Shimkent
SOE         -     Statement of Expendites
TA          -     Technical Assistance
TOR         -     Terms of Reference
UTP         -     Urban Transport Project
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Dweeber 31



FOR OMCM USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAIAL RORT
REPUBLIC F]2tN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Lam and Prject Summay  ..................................... i
I.    Country and Ecaonmi Background ............................ 1
A.   GeneralFeaes  ................................... 1
B.    RecentDevelopments .        ............................... 1
U.    Mm UrbanTrnsport Sector ................................ 4
A.   PopulionandUUrbnizaionTeidsnin Kazhtamn ....               .......... 4
B.    Main FeaureofUrbn Tramport inKa kha n................ 4
C.    Urban Public Tmnsport in Almaty, Karganda, and Shimkct .... ... 7
m.   WorldBankExperience inUrbanTrmsport .            . .................... 17
A.   WorldB m ding  ...............                 .................. 17
B.    Lssons ofEpeienc  ............................... 17
IV. lhe Prect                                                                    20
A.  PrqectObjectives .. . ...                      .... 20
B.    Raionale for Wod Bank Iwoldvement.                 .       .....  20
C. ProjetDescription                           . . . 20
D.   Cost Estimates ...................................         .23
E.    Financing ....................................... 24
F.                   .......nentation. .. . .   24
G.   Procurnt  .....................................  26
H.   Disbursmet ..................................... 28
I.    Reporting, Acownting and Auditing .     . ..................... 28
L.    Piject Superis  ................................. 29
K.   Environmental Aspect............................... 29
V.   Projet Justification and Riks     ............................... 30
A.   PetJ'ustficadon .....            ... ...              ..........    . 30
B.    Main ProjectRism  ...............................          .       . 31
VI.   MaimAgreemeftsReachedand           n          ......        ............. 33
Annexes
2.1   Statiscs on Urban PopWaton......           .................... 34
2.2   Policy Stgamt and Action Plan for  mpoing Public Tansport
ServicesinAlmaty, Kaagnda, andShimkent ................. 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their o0cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



- iii -
2.3   Number of Urbn Passges Tnsported Anualy in
Almnaty, Karhanda, and Shimukent ... . . . .. .         .... 39
2.4   1993 Veicle Fleet  in Almaty, agnuda, and
Shinkeut ....................................... 40
2.5    Availability of the Vehcle Flee  in Almay,
K&ana da, and Shiikent (Aprl 1993) . ................... . 41
2.6   Key Peom        m  icators (12)  ................  ........ 42
4.1   EstimawofSprePart andSuppies Needs(June1993)  ..... ..... 43
4.2   Program of Study Tours, Seminars and Constltncy
Svices for    plm         Poicy Refm  and
Strengtheninstittons in the Uban Thnsporte                ...........44
4.3   Estuated Pzoject Cost . .............................. 54
4.4   Impmenao  Shedule                ..... .        ........         .. .   56
4.5    Delsi of Pwzovrement .............................. . 59
4.6   Estmated  SiibentSchedule                            .      ........... . 64
4.7    Supervidon Plan ............. . . . . . .........               .... . 65
4.8   Seleted DocmentsandData AvailablentheP roe lectFe........... 67
Map: MMRD No. 23700Rl
is repot is bamsd an dothei    of an appraibslmin nune/uly I9. The repo wa prepaed by Jen-
Charles Crochet (3C31V-Ta  Maaer)  and m Nws= (co4nlt) WitM contrio  by Harod Buckel,
JePierre Charrier, Willam Krause, Fraacoi y ayn, Djeoul Oubbsir (onsuln), Melody Mao
(EC3lV, and Richard Podo  (BC3MO). UBs peer reviwrs are John Floa rWUTD) and Richd Scurfid
1AN. Mm. Departmn Dietor an  Diiio Chinf a  Russe J. Cheeha  and Jont   C. Brow
respecively*.



%am OF   SHM
URBAN TASPRT ROEC
Lon and Project Summary
BORROWER:               Republc of Kazakihtan
IENEFICILRUES:          The central Government of Kazakhstan and the local govanment
and public transport companies of the cities of  Umaty, KaXganda,
and Shimkent
AMOUNT:                 US$40 milLion equivalent
TERMS:                  17 years, including 5 years of grce period, at the World Bank's
standard vatiable interst rate
PROJECT OBJECTIVE: The main objectives of the project are to (1) help restore public
tnsport capacity in Kazakhstan's three main cities to adequate
levels of sevice quality; and (H) desig and implement some key
improvemnts in policis and instutions in the udan public
transport sector of the three citie. The poiy impovements and
related implematin measures are  peled out in a Paoiy
StAtement and Action Plan for Improing Public Transport
Swrvices (PSAP) in Almaty, Karpgnd, and Shimkent which has
been formally issued by the Govenment.
PROJECT                 The prqject includes the followig components:
DESCRIPION:
(a)   Provision of about 300 new sandard urban buses;
O)   Rehabitation of about 550 exdsting buses and 400 existing
trolleybuses including prvson of necessary spare pas
and supplies;
(c)   Pwvision of a limited quantity of workshop and office
equipment; and
(d)   Provision of training and techncal asistance.
PROJECT BENEFITS:   The project will contribute to alleviating the ortage in public
transport capacity for Almaty, Kaagaxda, and Shimkent. Thus,
it will case the quality of public tansport servis, and  duce



H-Il
bus trasport Ome and caneled trips for the 90% of the tee
cities' populatons dependent on public tranport for city travel
e Improved svice will have indirecly benefit labor mobility
and the functioning of market. ITe project will also help put in
place better wban tansport policies and impve the peone
of d*e public trnport cmpnies. In addidon, the prqect will
have a positiW impat on the er   n
PROJECT RISKS:         There are two main project risk: (i) delays in project execution;
and (i) icompleft implemenion of the PSAP. The project has
been desge and oject ppa         has been caried out so as
to reduce these rik as much as possible. Proement wil be
caried out with the asdisn  and monitoring of a central unit
whwh will be gven adequate staff and special Governt
suppor.  Prparation of pc      t documents has already
stred for buses and an    uation of spare part needs has been
e Te PSAP, which has been approved by the cental and
local govemnts,  simple and focuses in general on polides for
which tere is already a broad eosensus. Te project includes
supprt for the formulation and ilemenion of the deailed
acto  incuded in the PSAP. Implemention of the PSAP will
be closely   vised during project exeuion.
ESTIMTED COSTS:
(US$ milion)
Local       oreign     Total
Provision of about 300 new buses                   0.5        28.0        28.5
Rehabilitation of exsng buses and trolleybuses     0.7         8.3         9.0
Trning and Tecnical Assistance                     0.6         2.2         2.8
Equipment                                                      0.3         0.3
Base Cost                                        1.8        38.8       40.6
Price Conftingencies                               0.1         1.7         1.8
Total Cost                                       1.9        40.5       42.4



FINANCING PLAN:
(US$ milion)
Local     Forei       Total
(3ovenmentlPublic Tansport Companies              1.3        0.5        1.8
Eupn  Community                                   0.1        0.5        0.6
IBRD                                              0.5       39.5       40.0
Total Financing                                 1.9       40.5      42.4
ESTIMTED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS:
(US$ miio) n)
World Bank Fiscal Year                          FY95   FY96    FY97
Annual                                          24.5    15.1      0.4
Cumulative                                      24.5    39.6    40.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:    High but not quantfiable with available data
POVERTY CATEGORY:                  Not applicable.
MAP:                               IBRD No. 23700R1



UEUOF KAZAKHIThN
A. Gend
1.1   Kaakhtn i among Mhe largest and poftenily wealthiest countries of the foame Soviet
Union (FSU). It has exnse and relatively unewloited minl resoirces including gold, isn
ore, copper, zinc, coal, gas, and oil. It also has vast agricultura lands with sgnificant
productd  of gain, cotton, and cate, and is self-fficient fiod. Production and trade have
been mostly directed towards miner excticon and large-scale agculture. This comtry, of
only about 17 million people, bas been one of the main supliers of raw matials to the FSU.
1.2    azakstan has a reltvely exteniv inftute and a bighly educated work fre,
an inheritance from the sgnifieant FSU investment of the past decades. Soial indicators are
comparabe with upper mide income counres Labor skis have been developed though on-
thejob taning in the space industry, defense, and manufcg. In the fur, they coud
provide the basis for the development of illed labor-based industies.
1.3    he FSU has left a legay of cnstaints. The eonoy Is Wgly integrted with tat of
othr FSU countries and production units are highly  eialized. The economy also lacs the
flxibility inherent to a market system. Inr  is lagely directed towd Russia, at the
expense of Kazakhstan's poteial trade orientao   d Asia and the Middle East. Even
domestically,   uc    has been desgned for the wider FSU: oil fields in tie west are not
linked to        in the east; northr and soutiem electricity grids are not connected.
Kazakhstan has also inherited extenive enmental problems: dame    of par  lands
though exsive water use and fertilization; c ination resuting from nuclar testig; and
severe pollution  mming from mining and industry.
B. R   t DeveqpmeSs
1.4   Serious macreconomic difficulties have developed in the past few years. Real output is
estmated to have fallen by a cumuve 30% over 1990-92 and a further 11% in 1993. Trade
and payments disruptions, the extreme integraion of FSU production, and the elimination of
state orders have contributed to the decline. In 1992, the conetacon was compounded by a loss
of about 8% of gross domestic product (GDP) in fiscal transfers from the FSU. However, a
str-g post-drought rebonmd in agnrculua production and large trade credits from Russia in the
third quarter prevented a sharper decline.
1.5   The country's decision to stay in the ruble zone ensured the continued supply of credit
from Russia during 1992. While ruble credits were necessary to suppot domestic activity in the
absence of forep financing, the lack of overall monetay discipline within the zone fueled a
raid rise in inflation. Consumer prices in fte country rose by 25 dmes in 1992 and a furher



- 2 -
20 dmes in 1993. Pasonal ioes fell drsily. Social pera brought about by the
deteriotion in living conditions led the Government to reax its strict cash smanement system:
the consoldated budget tuned from being baanced during he first half of the year to a deficit
of about 7% of GDP for 1992 as a whole. Hower, the ituaton improved during 1993 when
the budget defcit decreased to about 3% of GDP.
1.6   Despite such considerab  macrconoic difficulties, the Gvrnment has steadly
pursued stucurl refms. Prices of most goods were lihWbe d in January 992. As in most
PSU counti, some prices condnued to be admi        for social reasons. However, the
Govemment has coninuouly weduced the number of goods subject to price control. Prices of
importnt goods  at sill remain controlled in other PSU countries, like meat and milk, were
lbealized in January 1993 and only a few basic goods remain under admin d prices
Moreover, most admnis  prices have been substandally adjusted. For example, rents of state
owned property were increased tenfold in eary 1993 and public trsport fare in Almaty have
been Increased by a factor of 33 in 1992.
1.7   There has also been rapid progress on pivation and entpise reform. Bary in 1993
the Preident approved a World Bank-suported program for uch reforms. Most of the 30 texts
and decrees needed to sp   implementation of the enabling legislation wer approved by
Parliament in April 1993. They included amenent to the old pkivaon law and to thejdot
stock company law. As a result, about 10% of state assets were privazed by the end of 1993.
1.8   The devlopment of the private sector is being en ed through the adoption of
exensive lega reforms and insdtional biding. The new Consttution was adopted in January
1993 and establishes the legal basis for private ownerhip, which was not recognized under the
pvious system. Other legis     hs been enacted cnering companies, pldge, leases,,
banrptcy and land reform.
1.9   Most legal and instonl barrie  to prvate pacpaton in trade and dioswibuti  have
been removed. The system of compuly ste ordes goveing the distribution of producdon
was abolished in Decmber 1992. The number of goods covered by inter-pubican tade
arrngements, export lcenses and quota were substanty reduced for 1993. There are no
import quotas and impot duties range from 0 to 13%. Kazalhstan introduced its own natona
curency - the Tenge - in November of 1993 and adopted a macronomic stabilton progam
to support it.
1.10  Within the PSU, Kazakhstan has been in the forfnt of opening its economy to  teinal
direct foreign invesment. An agrem t was finalized with Chevron to develop Kazahtan's
Tenghiz oil field in April 1993. Tenghiz ran  alongside some of the largest fields in Saudi
Arabia, with recoverable reserves esdimated at six to nine billion barls of oil. Initial investnent
for this prqject is esmated at amund US$1.5 billon. In June 1992, British Gas and Agip won
exclusive negotiang rights to develop the Karachanganak field with 20 trilion cubic feet of gas
and two billion barrels of oil and condensate. If negodations are concluded successlly, this
agreement would involve investment of similar   ortace to that by Chevron. Ote foreign
investors are exploring the potntial development of an oil export pipeline which would connect



- 3 -
Kazakht  with intenaonal maret, as wel as the potential development of hydrocatbon
reserves under the Caspian Sea
1.11  Reforms in the ficial sector have also started. New legisation coveing the central
bank and commercil banks has been aproved, credit auctions have been introduced to incrae
competit  in the aocaon of fnds, and new pudential supervision standards have been
esblished. In April 1993, Parliament apprved new saues for te Ntonal Bank of the
Republic of Kaakhstan (NBRK), a law on bankig activities ad a new foreig currency law.
The new NBRK act gives the contral bank increased Independence from the Government,
establishes the legl foundadin for the conduct of monetay and credit poLcies, and provides the
NBRK with the auhrty to egulate and upeie the bankng sstem.
1.12  Outside of the oil and gas sector, sector reforms have been limited. The Government
has begun consdering reform strategies for the coal and power sectors. Similarly, despite
offering ignificant expt earnings potential, reforms in the mining sect" have been limited to
increased operating    dene. The Govment has not yet atculated a onsdstent vision
for agricultual reform  ither. Reforms so far have focued on removing most adminisive
price controls and reducing price subsidies. In the tansport sector, however, the Government
has beg  to put in place the leg  and institutional fiamework for the emrging market for
tansport services. It has also iiated privatization of trucng and opened entry to the rad
tansport markt In addiion, as shown by this prqect, the Govement is commdtted to
implement struct    refms to promot the efficiency of urban public transport in the main
cities.



-4-
IL _ ULBAN R&NSEW1QR
A. Eomula n and IJ ailrends In           X
2.1   The Republic of Kazaan  is relvely urbanized and Its patem of ubanization is
charactezed by a large number of medium size cities. Ihe country's 1990 population was 16.7
million, of which 9.7 millon (about 58%) resided in wuban areas. Of this amount, about 6.9
million persons reided in some 33 urban areas of over 50,000 persoms each. The lrgest city
and capital, Almaty, had a 1990 population of 1.17 million, followed in size by Karaganda
(610,000), and Shimkant (439,000). The  were an addi four cies with a poplon of
more than 300,000, and a further 14 cities with populaions between 100,000 and 300,000.
2.2  The urban pouation is gowing relatively raidly. Over the past decade, the populadon
of the 33 largest urban settlements has grown 27%, while the national popuaion has grown by
only half as much. Over the past 20 years, these centers have accounted for about 70% of the
total population grwth of the Republic. Details are in Annex 2.1.
2.3   Wile the economy of Kazaditn reiesvery heavily an its mineral wealth, as well as
on fring, the country's urban areas serve as important manucturing and service centers
which are critical to the eoonomy. Some of the country's largest cities (lik Kanda) ae
mining centers where a majority of the employment is in mines or related pocessing industies.
Cental to the continued functioning of the urban economy is the urban public trnport system.
B.     Featur  of Ur ban KazaMdan.
2.4   As in most the  FSU countries, the urban population of Ka=khstan is highly dependent
on public trapom Private car ownerip is low by developed country sandards, amounting
to only 84 vehicles per 1,000 persons, as compared to over 400 in Western Europe and 550 in
the USA. As a resut, over 90% of al urban motocred psen  trips are by public tnsport.
In addion, avge passenger trips are relativy long because of city sture (low densty and
long distances to satellite neighbohoods) and, especially, low housing mobility. Moreover, the
hah clinate severely constrains the use of non-motorized modes of tpot. The population's
dependence on public tnsport is highighted by the high proportion of the urban populaton
which uses public tansport daily. This proportion is 50% to 100% higher in Almaty than in
other major Asian cities.
2.5 The supply of public transport has been diminishing and is not adequate to meet demand.
The national fleet of 13,000 public buses which are used for urban and suburban services is old
and in poor condition. There have been very few additions to the fleet in the past two years, and
replacements have been lagging behind needs since about 1988. As a reult, the public transport
fleet is about 20% smaller today ta five years ago. In addition, because of the cmpanie'
poor financi sitaion, the lack of foreign ex ge, and numerous disruptions in the FSU
manufactrers' plants, the shortag  of spae pat and supplies have been acute. The availability
of existing bus  is now about 55-60% on average, down from 7580% in the mid 1980s.



- 5 -
2.6  In the past, all common carier road ansport svicas were provided by the RepubUcan
Ministry of Automobile Tanspot, but now public tanspot Is provided by very laW  std
owned companies with a de acto mopoly. In genetal, th    ar regional road truport
companies which often combine freight, urban and Inter-uran passenger tansport services and
belong to the regional (obast) govenmets. In the absence of a well-defined lega framework
for sateaowned enteipe in Kaakhstan, the legal s8t  of the publc transport companies,
especially the rules for govece, Is uner. The companes' senior management groups
generally appear to be extesios of the regionl govemmen Manges have no cear, proUse
perform ance ofbjive, but they do bave coniderab  opaonal fvedom  and are not
systematically supervised. Nonetheless, the compan' finances are tightly controlled. Through
this control, and in th absence of a wll-defined budget proess, the regional  ts can
interfere indirectly in most of the key decisions of the opanie  This  o does not make
for efficient and wl-managd endties; therefore, the project alms at  the int
structure and modus opendi for public  sport compan  in the cities of Almaty, Ka1gnda
and Shimkent (pIan 2.19). It Is expected that this project wi provide a model fhmework for
other cities in the country.
2.7   A disn hg characteis  of public ansport sytm  in Kazakhstan (as weal as in
other FSU counties) i the limited vaiety of sevics There are very himited mini-bus services,
no premium services providing higher comfot and convenienc levess, and lmited legal and
illegal taxi services Virtually al public trasp  services ae pvded by the public sector
monopolies described above, which opemte relatively large buses on fixed routes in accordan
witi a fixed schedule and a stndad fre. his situation may change riy with he emergence
of private operators (pera 2.11). In most other cities around the world where pubLc t port
sysm  are prevaent, there is a much greater variety of serice.
2.8   Urban pasenger traspot fares  aetionay been very low. Th stion has been
exacerbae by the rooent inflatio and fal in pers   incme In most ciies, fare were equal
to about 15-20% of the opetg cost of uban bus sevies in June 1993, excluding investment
costs. In addition, about 30% of all passegers are exempted or benefit from reduced firs.
Although this is not sound from a financal and economic point of view, it should be
dtat peaps 40% of the populatin has fal  below the povety leel with ter
incomes  nsumed mosly by badc needL Local goments are tberefore very reluctant to
increase fares. In June 1993, if fa  had been  ffident to cover opetng costs, a family in
Alnaty with a median income woud have spet about 20-25% of its reoures on public
transpotNevertheless, under the proect, substan    measures will be taken tD improe cost
recovery of publi tansport services in Almaty, Karagand, and Simhent (para 2.42).
2.9   Untl recentdy, urban pas       tranport was sbsdized by the cent  govenment
which, in particula, supplied all equipent. In all citWes (with the principal exoeptin of
Almaty), urban passenger tranort was als cro-subsidized by the compi' other services,
which usualy generated a pofit (intey passenger and even freight sevies where povided).
This siton has changed dratcaly in the past two years The companies' costs have incrased
'his Wlsidmod da abo 10.20% of ag pmpr  ova%d psya



-6-
faster than their revenues, which has eliminated the possibility of cwr subsidies in most casea
The central govemment has also passed on to the regional govemments the responsibility for
funding public tansport and has almost entirey sopped its grnts to the cmpanies. By early
1993, the financial situaton of many companies was desperat. They could not meet their
recurrent costs (including payroll in some cases) and had to un arears with their suppliers and
borrow from the banking systeim. Consequendy, a law was passed authozing regional
governments to levy a special tax for the purpose of fuding public transprt and most
governments have now taken advantage of the new law (par 2.38).
2.10 For the time being, the Ministry of Transport (MOm) has rightly focused Its activities on
defining the sector's legal and institutional framework. MOT was one of the first in the FSU to
move away from an opraional role and concentrate an policy and regatory issues. It is
responsible for all modes of tansport except highways. It has a very limited staff of about 95
persons. The department of road transport, which, among other things, is responsible for urban
transport, has only four peple and is organized on a functional and not subsectoral basis.
Because of the urgency of its work on policy and egatory issues, MOT has not been able to
ifihl its oher rpibes in urban trnort, such as seting norms and stndards,
monitoring sector developments, and disseminatng new technologies. It needs to develop the
capbility to do so as son as posible. The other main sctor responsibilities involving the
supervision and funding of public tranort compnies, managing taffic, and administering the
urban road network, have been given to the rgonal and city governments who are still
organizing themselves to undertake these resonsibilities. In bey aras, such as company
supervision, the local goverments will need exutnal support.
2.11  The Government approved in May 1993 a new reguaion for the licensing of road
transport operators which i based on sound principles and especiay provides for a simple and
open system. It should, therere, allow the development of a competitive and diversified private
sector in road freight and passenger transport, including urba transport. Although the
frmeork is well-defined, the specific criteria on which Liensng wiU be based are yet to be
established. How the new regulaton, which, in uan publc transport, needs to include
measures to   dina   among coneting services, shoud be applied needs to be defined and
enacted. The project will assist with a review of censing standards, procedures and relevant
regulations and with the competitive tendering of public t ort The review will provide
detailed recommendations on the reguations reqired, as wel as monitoring and enforcement
measures necessary to ensure adequate service for passengers and efficient business practces.
These recommendations will take into account the experience of other countries which have
encouraged competition in urban public transport.  e Govemment has agreed to complete the
review by March 31, 1995 and decide by June 30, 1995 on the improvements to implement
(Annex 2.2, para 9).
2.12  Road traffic is in genera much less dense in KaXkhstan's cities than in otier countries
with similar levels of income. Tbis sitation is explained by the reaively generou size of the
wban road network (due to the recent development of most cities in Kazkhstan), the low car
ownership, and the absence of non-motorized traffic and madside activities. Also, in the few
areas witi substantid traffic density, adequate traffic management measures have generally been
established. As a reslt, average vehicle speeds (including that of buses) are quite high and trip



-7-
tdmes are short. This could change in the fure, however, as the use of private cars is increasing
rapidly. Road networks, which are now satisfactry for the cities' levels of taffic (although
there is much variaton wihdin and between cities), could also deteriorate quicldy because of
funding for maint=ce is inadequate and truck traffic is lidely to become denser and heavier.
Currendy, although there are few potholes and deomations, roads are relatively rough and
surfaces are worn out in many places, and badly require periodic maitenae.
2.13  Air pollution is a sipfiant problem in Kazalhtan and it has bee reported that 18 cities
did not meet the FSU's air emission stdards. In seven of these cities (icluding Karaganda and
Shimkent), vehicle emissions reportedly account for 20% to 50% of total air pollution; in five
cities (including Almaty) vehicle emissions may account for over 50%. The main reason for high
vehicl emisons is that most engine are gasolne powered, tecogically obsolete, and fuel
inefficient. It is also esimated that in Alnaty, wich, because of its unusual geogphc
dcarac cs, has the worst air quality of Kazakhstan's major cities, buses may contribute 10%
to 20% of total air pollution. The project will reduce air pollution by helping rehabilitate most
of the diesel buses and electric troalleybuses, as well as replace old pollutng gasoline buses by
new diesel buses.
2.14  At present, there is little professional expeence in air quality standards and no entity
working on the updating of such stndards in Kazakhstan. A law on en in     mat   was
acted in 1991, but it does not adequately address the problems of air pollution. In adition,
ee is minimal monitoring and enforcement capacity in the country. The Wald Bank is
panning to catty out an Infastructe Review In 1995 which will addr  these  rnmental
issues.
C. Urb  PubEc Xhg=M in                      -and
2.15  The project will focus on impoving publc transport seic  in Almaty, Kaaganda, and
Shimlet, the three main cities of Ka1khstan. The central govem   and the three local
govements and four project urban trport compnies have commited themselves to take
important short, medium, and long term measures to improve loca public transport services.
Ihe prnciples upon which the mees are based, the measr  themselves, and the key steps
to be taken in the short term for their i mentaon are std in the Poicy Statement and
Action Plan for Improving Public Trnsport Services in Almaty, Karaganda, and Shimkent
(PSAP), details of which are in Annex 2.2. The centr pvrment and the local govemments
of Almaty, Karaganda, and Shimkent have jointly signed the PSAP and it has been fmaly
confirmed by decree dated January 10, 1994, of the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, the central
and local governments and the four project companies have substantially adopted an
Implementtion Program that defines  ough a set of specific govenment decrees and company
orders, most of the responsibilities and acons to be pefrmed by each cncered party for the
implementation of the PSAP as wel as the project (para 4.17 and Project File). ITe
Implementation Program  needs to be coplemented on a few key points, however.
Complementary decrees and orde, acceptble to the Bank, will be fomally adopwd as a
condition of loan effectivenes. At Negotiations, it was also agreed that the Project would be
implemented in accon  with the PSAP and that failure by a local government on a project



- 8 -
conmy to perform any of its obligations under the Irplementation Program could be cause for
lon suspension at cancelladton (pi  6.1).
PuRblkl Comg_ ai -   * thei Oma   nd Stf
2.16  Four serate copaies provide almost al public masport in the project cities: two in
Almaty (one for autobus tuaprt and one for electric - troileybus and tram - tansport), and one
each in Karaganda and Shimkent which combine both modes of taport These companies will
be the main bene         of the project together with MOT and the local govenments. The bus
company of Almaty is mostly an urban pubLic transport company, but it also prvides many
charter services for the pennmd of industrial enteprses in the urban area, as well as for
touism and special purposes. On the other hand, the passenger tasport companies of
Kmnda and Shimkent are regional companies providing city and intercity sevices. In geneal,
the ornization of the four companies is fairly similar to that found in many western compAie.
The main opeonal uits are the depots which have their own faciLties, vehicle fleets, pool
of drives, and assgned routes. The depots have some management and financial autonomy, but
they are tightly controlled by the central departments which have main r ibLty for
equipment and mai ce, opaons, finance, and persomnnel. The system is satisfacory
although some decton, in paricular for maintnance and operational matters, could
promote efficiency.
2.17 The four compnies have a large workforceP. Yet, with staff per vehicle ratios between
3.5 (Kaaganda and Shimkent) and 5.0 (Almaty lectric Trnsport Company), they are reavely
understaffed if compared to average companies in deveoping cunte   (although the
availability of vehicles is not en into consideat  in either case). The workforce is in general
wel trained and capable. However, a major problem is the insfficient number of drivers (paras
2.29 to 2.31).
2.18  The legal condio  and the specific rules and procedures for sound govemance of the
publc transport companies are not in place. This is a reflectm   of the general problem of
governc of state-owned enrpris  in Kazalstan. First, the lgal sus of the project
companie is unclear. Only two (the electric tansport company of Almaty and the public
tansport company of Shimkent) ae regtered enterprises, but they are registed under the 1991
public entepes law which bas many unsa y  aspect and is in the process of being
overhauled. For the two other companies, the depots are the registered enterprises, leaving the
central managmet groups, the real decision-making centers of the companies, with no legal
status. Second, the charters of the compaies are too vague. They do not provide clearly for
autonomy of the companies nor for an efficient control by the companies' owners - the regiol
governmens. There are no boards of directors, no procedures or clearly assigned rensibilities
'About 7,500 and 2,800 employ.. ar th e bs and eletri transort companie of Almuaty, 9,000 far Karsgnda and
8,700 for Slk, althouh in  latteto es lwess thn 50% of te wkforc  Is ivove is cW tnpor.
'A ratSo of bet_e &m to eit is deoem  sactoy in th Word Bank 196 U    Tnsport Policy Paper.



- 9 -
for deining and monitoring the compaie' podicies. The flows of infonmation are also
inadequate. As a resdt, the power and accountability of tie companies' senior manages are
diluted. Third, the contract between the companies and the local governments are also fir too
vague. They do not include adequate perfor e indicators and thus do not povide ral
incentives for improving efficiency. There are also no links with the companies' budget, nor
with the process for grantng subsidies.
2.19 The Government s aware of the lack of a legal and institutional framework for urban
transport, but has not been able to tale remedial measues, pardy because of the tradition of
command systems and parly because it is unaware of solutions developed in other countries to
improve the manageme.t of public entises. As part of the PSAP, the Government has
committed itself to the establishment of a sound framework for govemance of the companies.n
particular, this includes: (i) improved charters for the companies to provide more operaonal
autonomy; (ii) performance contracts between the companies and the local governments based
on allocation of subsidies linked to quantifiable objectives and targets; and (iii) a suitable level
of supervision by the local governments. A study will be canied out by March 31, l99S to
fomulate proposals, and decisions on implementation will be taken soon thereafter so that
adequate charters and contra  can be used on a pilot basis between June and December 1995,
and effectively start by January 1, 1996 (Anne 2.2, pan 7). The project will provide the
assistance necsary to put such a frmework in place.
2.20  There is cutrenly litde compettion for the provision of public transport in the prqect
cities. Legal and illegal taxi servica are developing but, in the long term, they will cater mainly
to higher income passengers. Some illegal bus services are also reported to have srted and help
alleviate the current urban tansport shorage. The Gov ent has rwecognized that private
operators should play an important role in the provision of road tansport, including urban public
transport, and has apped sound reglations for entry in this sector (par 2.11). On completion
of the central government's revie of licensing standards, procedures and reguatons for urban
transprt, the three project cities, in accordance with the PSAP, will decide upon measues to
promote efficient competition in public Uanport.
2.21  At present, large fleets of buses are held by non-tansport companiem, especily industrial
enterprises, for the transport of their employees. These buses are not used efficiendy so that
dtre is potental for compeitive tenderng of some bus routes in the prqect cities. Such
tendering, which has been scessfil in sevea countries (ncluding the United Kingdom), is one
way of promoting private provision of public tnsport while maintaining a certain level of
subsidies and should be tested in Kazakhutan. Under the PSAP, the Government wiU prepare by
June 30, 1995 suitable measures for the competitive tendering of public tansport Ti tndering
will be implemented on a pilot bass on at least two routes in Alnaty, Kaaanda, and Shimkent
before December 31, 1995 (Annex 2.2, pam 8).



- 10-
- Deman
2.22  Statisics on passenger traffic are presented in Annem 2.3. The main characte cs tat
they highlight are the large number of trips in relation to city size (pan 2.4), the predonce
of autobus tanort, and the recent fall in recorded traffc. There is no doubt that trnort
demand ha fallen not only because of the very poor quality service now offered by public
transport (notbly the crded conditions and the irregularity of service), but also because of
the decine in ewoomic activity and fall in personal incomes The fall in demnd may not be as
pronounced as shown in the statcs, especially dnce exempted pasngers are not recorded
properly. More importantly, given crowded conditioas, it has become impossible to enfroe
payment of fares and the number of fare erade  h  d cally increased. An extended
survey, sWed in Almaty in May 1993, should help to clarify the situation by providing bettaer
traffic stistcs.
EuunmW and MahWzam
2.23  As in the other main cities of Kazakstan, there is a serious problem with the avalaility
ad utilization of the project companies' vehicle fleets. Detailed data is provided in Annexe 2.4,
2.5, and 2.6. The operational indicators in Almaty, Karaganda, and Shimkent compare poorly
wi those rated as atsactory in the World Bank's 1986 Urban Transport Sector Policy Study,
and show that eistin assets are not used as wel as they could be. Availability ratios for buses
range from 54% (Shimnt) to 66% (Almaty) cmpaed to  raty  levels of 80-90%. Daily
rates of baowns are esmaed to be about 15% of the operaing fleet comparod to
satsfctoy levels of 8-10%. Utliation of buses as maured by the kdlometers per bus per day
range fom about 190 (Shikent) to 223 (Karanda), compared to ysa ory lvels of 230-260
krn, although with the light road traffic conditions much higher reslt than aveage should be
expected. These atios apply to a fleet which bas dereased substantially in the recent past. As
a result, there is not even enough capacity to ensure a minimum level of sevice in the proect
cties.
2.24  There are many reasons for this tuation most of wbich are beyond the control of the
project conpanies. First, there has not been adeae vehicle replacement in the past few years
Second, the vehicle fleets are in very poor conditon because many vehdiles were not well built
and have been poorly maintained in the past few years due to the lack of funds and the acute
gortae of spare parts. Many vehicles are kept in operaton only becau  of the ingenuity of the
rpair staff and the intensive paru recycling practies that have developed'. Buses manuf d
in Hungry have a hi  perfoce and therefre carry a substantial share of traffic (about
one third in Almaty while they constitute ondy 15% of the country's fleet). However, as ow.n
' In Almat aned SiEmkot, eloic t   (mnoy tolebuse) play  a nmauy imp_t role. I Abiay 6d
Kaagda do tramway sy_em, which is obsolte, is of lit impore. Suburt railwy taffi is 1 i i
tdo dree cities.
S Pau mo         which nuzadly have a srvic ler shorter th Is coison in wemm coaties, ae rebuilt
ever tms beynd what swad echn  practices wwd dict  Older vehicales am exenv  cannibavl As
a re, veles arwe ogile and nd very frequet rephs, and bus ae sow, Il inefficient, sad poluting



- 11 '
in Annex 2.5, the availability of these buses is weUl below averge becau  the project companies
have little access to the f-edga excng needed to puriase spare pars.
2.25  Altgouh repir workshops generaly show an impressive ability to put vehicles back in
opation, they need to improve in seval important ways. Tee is not enough control of the
quality of the repair being perfamed and productivity is generally low. Also, because of a lack
of flexibility in repak scheduks, the number of vWhicles available during peak periods is not
maximized. Repair workshops shoud adopt more moden management metods including better
quality cotol and infmation systems to follow up the repir histoy of each vehidcle, and
subordination of maintenance advities to operatonal needs The workshops also require better
tools and me met equipment. Asitanc will be provided under the project thugh
trainUg, technical assstance, and equipment. However, it should be kept in mind that lasing
prgrs will be achieved only if there is a more prictable supply of spare ps. In order to
monitor improvements in performance, targets for im ed availaility of vehicles for the four
project companies have been included in the PSAP (Annex 2.2, Attachment 1).
QwDeR
2.26  As mentioned earlier, the quality of seri  offered to passengers is extremely poor and
has r.ow reached a cisis lev. Vehicles are so overcrowded duing the peak peiods that ere
is a safety problem for chdldren and older people, particularly when getng on or off at bus
stops. Waiting times are also especally long outside peak periods and durng the weekends.
Stacs on the daily numbers of pasengers caried per opeing bus show the poor level of
sevice (Annex 2.6). These numbers are about 50% higher ftan the intial norm although
they shoud be substtially lwr  given that, in the project ctes, the average vehicle size is
below that in most conmaable cities, vehicles are slower (beause of poor condition), and the
number of hours of operaion is reduced becuse of frequent daily ers and the sortage of
drivers.
2.27  Despite these poor results, the tanport planning and opetonal capability of the project
companies is saisfactory. The route networ  ae genealy wel-designed. Al parts of the towns
are weUll sewved and, with the high densty of demand, it has been possible to minimize the
number of connecos  per passegr. M  various modes of ansport (autobus, roleybus, and
tram) compment each other. Lrge scae paner demand surveys and studies of good quality
have been cried out at frequent intvals in the past by the National Institute of Automobile
Transport (NIAI). These have led to a    changes in routes and frequencies. The project
compaiies also make frequent smal-scale adjustments to demand, although the lack of computers
makes such revisions t c     n. In genera, the staff are competent and work methods are
goad.
2.28  The allocaion of trsport capacity is followed up on a daily basis and effort are made
to make the best use of avaiable resouces. Neverdeless, improvements are necessary in the
contl of tansport opetios Currently, contwl is very much based on an opeattona aid
sstem which automa    yregisters the movements of buses. However, the sstemn bas broken
down in many places and is hard to repar. It is also somewhat irrlevt in the current crisis
situation and should at least be suplemted by better field management and supervision of the



- 12 -
drivers and, possibly, teleommunications. In addition, opetional performance indicator. need
to be mnroved so as to show better, and more concisely, how the company and each depot
perform in relation to the given targets. Assitance will be prvided under the project to improve
operational management through technical assistance, taining and study tours for staff of the
project companies so that they can learn about organizaon and management methods in other
countries. Targets for improved optonal performance have also been agreed by the project
companie and included in the PSAP (Annex 2.2, Attachment 1).
2.29  Until recendy, a shortage of drivers was a major operonal problem in Almaty,
compounding the difficulties due to the companes' inadequate vehicle fleets. As reported to the
World Bank preparation mission, about 120 buses out of an available fleet of 870 were not used
on an average day in April 1993 because of lack of drivers. An additional 120 buses were not
in opation during fte peak morning or afternoon hours because the shortage of drivers
restricted the use of these buses to one workshift. Similarly, about 60 trolleybuses out of an
available fleet of 287 were not used and an additional 32 were used for only one workshift on
a typcal day. Rough calcuations showed that the Almaty bus company needed about 500
addonal drivers and the electric tansport company needed 250, or an icrea  of about 25%
each.
2.30   Many factors accounted for the shortage of drivers but most rdated to the rigid
allocation of drivers to a specific vehicle, a prace common in the FSU. This system has many
positive aspects, especay since it fosters a sense of responsibility among drivers and promotes
initiative. However, the serious drawback was that vehicles were not operted with a substitute
driver if the assigned driver was absent. In addition, drvers' work conditions were very difficult
since drvers were supposed to supvise repairs on their vehicles and even perform some minor
repairs themselves which, given the fleets' very poor condition, usually impled very long
woring hours. Drivers' salaries also depended on whether or not their vehicle was worldng
properly which, in the current crum , meant that their salary was unpredicble and not
lind to quantity of work. Thus, the work of a driver became unattractive and, with new
opportities available in the expanding parts of the Kazachtani economy, large numbers of
drivers left the companies. Drivers who took on temporary work whenever available may also
have been a fctor behind the high rate of absenteeism. The employment of drivers was made
worse by the unusually demanding training requirements, including a six months training period
and about 450 hours of mechanical training before being cerdfied. There was no real justification
for this requirement since about a month of training is generally judged sufficient in westen
counties.
2.31 The Almaty City government has taken some key measures to make it possible to reduce
the shortage of drivers in Almaty. Drivers' salaries have been increased in real terms. Training
requirements have also been revised so as to reduce the training period from six to two months.
In addition, the project companies in Almaty are in the process of establishing a pool of reserve
drivers to increase the use of available vehicles during peak hours. Use will be made of
temporary drivers available through te district military committee. Furthermore, a peiminary
plan of action sing further measures to be taoen to incese the number of bus drivers has
been submitted to the Bank. These measures are expected to go a long way towards reducing
the shtage of drivers in Almaty. However, the acdon plan needs to be complemented by the



- 13 -
addition of sufficient detils on the measures already taken and its coverage needs to be extended
to the TramlTroleybus company. It has therefore been agreed that, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Almaty City govenment would submit a revised plan of actions, acceptable
to the Bank, for reducing the shortge of drivers (pa 6.2). In the loan agreement, this plan of
action will be consied as a part of the Implemenion program (pua 4.17).
2.32 Einamia ad accounting ss. The four project companies have i similar finanial
organization; they all have a central financial department responsible for the coapany's financial
policies, supeving the depots, securing funding, preparing finanial reports and cash forecasts,
prepaing the budget, and handling large financial transact. The depots have Ihnited fiancal
autonomy; they keep their own revenues and receive funds from the central financial department,
pay wages and some suppliers, and maintain th  own accounts. This general organization is
satisfactory. The companies, however, need additiona financial staff, although those in place
are generally well tained and competent within the limits of financial practices in the FSU.
2.33  The companies' accounting systems are decentized with each depot maintaining its own
acosunts. In general, the project compaies' accounts were found adequat and well-organized
and, in particular, files and origin  documents were available to support records and accounts.
Accounting procedures follow deailed guidelines from the Ministry of Finance and the
companies' central finani departments issue detailed written procedures to ensure consistency
among depots. Accounting guidei  provide for a double entry system tat produces balance
sheets and income statements. Financial reports appear to be generally conistnt with stndard
financial reporting, although there are differences from customary intenational reportng
prctices, e.g., regrding equity, depreican and social costs. With some modficaons, these
system  should be capable of producing standard format rept that give separate financial
results for city bus and trm/tolleybuses opations. For those city depots which also provide
intercity transport as wel as charter sevi  (escally in Karaganda and Shimkent), urban
passenger transport oons shold be kept quite separt. Given that detailed records are
already kept, it would not be diffict for the compaies to establish procedures for reportng
on city operations. Improved procedures are also necessary for cost accounting, which should
be easy to introduce as the companies already keep detailed records for each vehicle in the fleet
and can provide costs by depots and by type of vehicles. The assignment of shared costs coud
be improved, however, and the sstem should be able to better sWot opeatn  decisions,
e.g., by showing costs per route. The companie' saff appear eager to implement these
improvements but they need outside expertise, taining and especally better data processing
equipment, all of which will be financed under the project.
2.34  The companies have adequate inter  financial controls although there are a few
exceptions which should soon be recfiod. In partur, tere are satisfactory procedures for
purbasing and receiving goods, makdng payments, and inventory control. Internal and external
audit procedures need considerable imp emt, however, and although the companies have
some staff for internal audit, the function is not un ood and little intel auditing is carried
out. Exem  audits are performed by severia entities, including the state tax ins , the
city and oblast financial dqeamts, and the newly  reated national audit agency, but such
overlap is unneceary mad cosy. ITe focus of the audits is on detmining wrongdoing with



- 14-
a narrow concem for how well procedures bave been followed and the auditors have much
leeway to interfre with micro management decisions. Istead, externa audits should provide
a substantive review of the mefulness of facial rportL Such improvements will require
chmges at the naonal level which shoud come about as a resut of the substantial assstance
now being extended or plaed to help Kazasn establish moden systems for goverance of
entepis.
2.35  The companes' budgeting procedures need considerble  gthening. At present,
budge  are reprded as essally finanal fecasts used to justify subsidy reques and are
based too much an norms and not enougb on actua costs. They are not conceived by the
companies' owners and managers as tools to formuate and monitor their business stategy or
to implement improvements in effieny. Thle are also no wel established review and updatng
schedules. Imprement in budgedng procedues should be given priority to upport changes in
the subsidy ystems and in the compni' reatonships with local goverments. Therfore, the
project includes subsantial assa    to addrss these issues (pars 2.43).
2.36  E            _   Fares wer 5 Rubles per passengr and per trip in Almaty and
Shmkent in June 1993, while in Kaaganda the fare, which had remained at 1 Ruble since May
1992, had just been ineased to 10 Rubles. Ihe fares were about 15% of the cost of opAons
(excluding investment costs) in Almaty and Shinken and 25% in Karaanda, wher trips are
loger. Mainly for socia reasom   (pae  2.8), loca Sovemments, which are responsible for
estabshing the fares, have not raised them as much as increases in costs. They have also
acceted many categories of temptons and reduced fares, although there is someties no
strn jusfiaon for them. Local governments are awae tat public tanport subsidies are
akig  an impont shae of their lhmited fiscd resources and that their fare policy should
change, especiy the system of subidies for lower income groups (pars 2.41).
2.37  Because of the low fares and  sing costs, the project companies' financial situaon has
been very poor for some time, espcay in Almaty where oompan  could not cross-subidize
urban passenger service from ote acdvities. Given thdr shortge of worldng capital and
borrwing constrints, tie projec companies adjusted as they could to cash shortages. They
lmited salary increases and redced maintenace and, in prtdar, curtailed sevices with the
negdve resut descried above. They also ran arreas, mainly with fud suppliers: the Almaty
bus company and the Kaaganda publc tusport company owed one billion Rubles and 600
million Rubles respectvely for fuel in June 1993 (about five and three months of consumption
rsecively at current prices).
2.38  In order to aUleviae the critical financ  situation of the poject companies, regional
governments have used the law authoizing them to levy a special tax for the purpose of funding
public trsport (pars 2.9). In Almaty and Karaganda, the tax is a percentage of the wage fund
of 'productive eteprises (20% and 8%, rpectively). InShimkent, ie tax is setat 1% of the
value of production. The result is tat substantial amounts are now being collected through these
taxes. Almost 16 billion Rubles is prqected to be collected in 1993 in Almaty, 8 billion Rubles
in Kauganda, and 1.7 billion Rubles in Shimkent. As of June 1993, colections were ahead of
projecdons in Almaty and Karaganda, but in Shimkent only two-tirds of the projected fimds
may be collected for the year. In Almaty and, to a lesser ent, Karapnda, tese amounts will



.15 -
allow the companies to meet al1 recure  expne and replace some of their worn out vehicles.
In Shimlent, the subsdy will cover only about 50% of the needs of recunt expenses. These
irimum dhow that consderable proess has been made in shung responsibility for urban
tansport subidies from the centra to the loca level, and improving cost recovery at the local
level, altho  orectve measures are still required in Shimkent
2.39  With the new subidy sysem now in pmace, some shor term debt has been repaid and
only the Shimkent company has substantial bank debt (930 million Rubles). in the cunrent
circumstances, the companes borowinp should remain Lmited. Threore, the Govenment
has agreed that it will require the prqect compaies to mantan at all times a debt service
coverage ratio of net revenues to debt service of not less than 2:1 (par 6.1).
2.40  Te imposition of special taxes should be regaded as a teonrary measure since having
cost recovery through earmarked aes is not efficient. Demand for urban passenger transport
services is not based on economic prices and the asport cmnies' perfonnance is not related
to the level of funding received from earmaked  xes. Urban passenger transport companies,
public or private, fully recover their costs through the fire box in many countes in the world,
pulary Asia and lad  America. Ts leads to coniderable efficiency gains for the
com>Paes as weal as for the broader uban economy. It also facilitaes the participation of the
private sctor in the povion of public tanport.
2.41  Local gn  bhave reognized the importance of ful cost recovery and eressed
the intenon to raie the publc transport fare as soon as possile to 100% of the opering cost
(excludig investment cost) of transport per passe . They itend to achieve this by steps,
including an increase of thefare to 55% of the operating cost per passenger by June 30, 1995,
provided that tere is a steady incase in the popation's purchasing power. As part of the
PSAP, the local governments will also carty out a study of public transport demand, cost,
affiIdabilit, and tariffs aimed at fonnrating guidelies on when and how full cot recovery
could be reached in the medium to long term. The study is included in the prqect and should
be completed by Mach 31, 1995. The local govrmets have also agreed under the PSAP to
review exemptions, so that special fares are limited to the most needy groups, and to establish
more effectve system  for controing fare coUecdon. The above study of public tnsport
demand and tarffs will help formubte  mmaons in aU these areas and the Government
has agreed to ta  decisions on specific imprvemets by June 30, 1995. This approach is
consste  with the Govemment's commiment under its geneal stuctua reform program,
which underpins the Word Bank's     ion  Loan', to eliminate subsidies for public
utities by 1997.
2.42  So as to ensure that any progress made with the laest fae increases not be eroded by the
high level of inlion, the Gonmment has agreed to incease fares reglarly in accordance with
the general consumer prce index issued by the State Committee for Statistics. Fares have also
been increased several tims in te pat months and are in      terms above the June 1993 level
(Annex 2.2, pan 2). In order to make further progess with increasing cost recovery through
61   IBRD La 3649W-XZ: bbRi    Lam. Aut 16, 1993.



- 16-
increased revenues from fares, the Govenmment has agreed that passenger fr  wil cover at
least 25% of the opating cos of tansport per passenger based on the past six months of
operations) by the time half or more of the new buses financed under the project are put into
operation (ara 6.1).
2.43  As staed in the PSAP, the local and central goverments are committed to the provision
of funds sufficient to enable the compames to opeat under rasonable technical stadards and
minimum acceptable levels of quality of sevice. Ihereore, as long as there is a subsidy systemn,
it should be established on a istnable basis and used to sdmulat imprents in efficiency.
This will first require substantal improvements in the companie rcunent and capital budgeting
procedures (para 2.35) so that teir financia needs, as weR as the financial impact of various
measures to improve efficiency, can be clearly established. Second, the opeaing budgets should
be prepred and approved each year on the basis of the acual costs of agreed levels of quality
of servce taking account of agreed improvemets in efficiency, preferably in the context of a
pefomance contract between the companies' m      and the local goverments. The local
and cent  governments have expessed their commitmentto these improvements in the PSAP.
Reviews of procedures for budget preption and subsidy alocation wi be carried out by
December 31, 1994 and decisions on implementation mea     will be taken soon thereafter so
that an adequate subsidy system can be used stig March 31, 1995 (Annex 2.2, para 6). The
project includes assistance for carying out all these activite



- 17-
mI wo= B^NE 1LZN LMMSOR
A. World Bank LaL"
3.1   Compared to many othe sects, urban tansport has not been a major area of World
Bank activity. Yet, since 1972, the 'VWorld Bank has had about hirty urban trnport projects and
an even larger number of urban development projec  with a substantial urban transport
component These prects have been quite diverified in terms of content, countries, and
icumstances under which they have been deigned and implemented. The major objective of
World Bank lending for urban transport has been to improve and extend available facilties and
services through the use of low cost options. For this reason, by far the greatest emphasis has
been placed on: (i) rationaliion of the use of udran trant facilities, particularly urban
roads; (ii) provision of better access through upgmding and exteon of the road networks; and
(iii) iprovement in the standards and viability of public trnsport services. A more general
objective has been to meet the special needs of the uban poor. Upgrding and extending road
networks in low income neighborhoods has therefore also been a priority as well as impving
the public tansport serces benefitting the poor. Other objectves of World Bank urban
transport operatons have been to improve planning and coordination and to better integrate
urban transport with urban development.
B. L
3.2   By mid 1991, Project Completon Reports (PCRs) and in many cases Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPARs) had been prepared for about fifteen urban transport projects or urban
dlopment projects with a large urban taport cmponent (above 30% of costs). Tbe main
lessons of experience are mmarized below.
3.3   With the exception of the Bangkok Ubn Transport Prject (UTP) which was
significantly changed in scope, physical component of urban trspt projects were generally
implemented as planned. While some chmges did take place and some components were poorly
planned, the physical components pWosed at appral proved to be feasible and supported by
decision makers. Overall estimated project costs were also of the right order although wide
variations in individual components occurred.
3.4  Institutional angements and components were considerably less successful, however.
Many projects established traffic and tansport units to plan, design and supervise improvement
schemes. The PCR/PPARs make reference to the poltical problems of mantaining the units,
of giving the units sufficient authority to act, of staffing the units, of obtaning adequately trained
staff and of sustaining those units after the implementation of a project. In particular, the
institutional problems of susining traffic management momentum and capabilities have not yet
been solved. Many of the PCR/PPARs cite lack of enforcement of traffic reguations as reason
7   ad n a ppw preowd by LATIN in AuJst 1991.



- 18-
for failure of taffic managmt schemes. Indoed, more attention should have boen paid to
improving police opeaons. In some cits, despite    Implmentation of physical schaees,
there was a lack of long term  commitment to accept  t   manaeet Measure  and
subsquent chages in politica admi    ton rjctd the tft    memet apprach.
3.5   Tanport policy meau  were included In some, but not all projects. The results were
mbied. For example, some failue were recorded in:
a)    Kuala Lumpur Second UT? and Bangoik UTP with rspt  to road pricing;
b)    Calcutta and Cote d'Ivoire Second UT? with rpct to bus fae;  and
c)    Ba  Third UTP tdes for bus deglaton and maintance.
But some policy meau   were also at least partly s fully implemented, for exmple in:
a)    Kuala Lmpu Second UrTP with rewect to ineas  in bus fares;
b)    Bombay UTP and Madras Urbn Project with respct to incea    in bus fr
allhough the incre wer not enough to meet covemanted agreements rgarIding
revenuelcost ratios.
3.6   A number of prects (Bombay, Madras, Cote d'Ivoire and Calcutla) investd in public
bus or monopoly bus oerto  (often supplying buses). Exept in Calcutta, al ft  compnies
are relaty efficient with, for exanple, availabit  of the flet of the order of 90% and
reasonable sMt     ratios. All compaies made opational iprovements during prqject
impleention. Neverteless, Goverment was reluctant to allow bus fares to rise adequatly
to meet agreed revencost rtios (cowvan   under the loan) and for finaial taWre  to be
met,            the poitical difficulties of isig fa
3.7   Project schedules wer always over-optimtic at apprisal. is appeas to have resuted
from some, or all, of the foowing fcto  (i) theo ifficuies of impl n tac scbemes;
(ii) failue to comple finld desgu in a tmely mamner,i) uy with World Bank
procedures (especially procurement); and (v) ckof countp   funds.
3.8 AIthough the project is quite different from most of the World Bank's previous urban
transport ptrects - it does not include any civil work nor taffic manamt schemes - the
lessons of World Bank epeiec hae been taen into account in its degn Impmentation
ddlays are ected to be mn zed because:   procurement will be canied out with assistance
from a central unit in the MiAstry of Economy (MOE) proied with adequate staff and upport;
(u) the lists of spare parts for   a  n of buses and trleybuses have arady been
pWated; and (di) prematio of the proCurement documents for mew buses b already under
way. Substantial progre  in the policy and instional aes i abo exectd ecue  the
commtment of the Gonment to the agreed mes is in geal high and  uired actions
are sted in spedfic tms in the PSAP. The trn  and tchical asstnce has also been
degned to suWort the Govmenet's polces and project  mpani' programs. Dee these



- 19 -
proect feaues, some rik  emain. In pardcart, bget for cost recovry from passenger fares
will depend on poltical will and the abiity of paseers to pay (pin 2.8). Nevertless, a
system is in place to at least reco    costs at the loca leved tirough local axadt  (2.38).
Further disussion of fik is in Chapter V (para 5.5 and 5.6).



- 20 -
IV. U PROJWT
A. roect Obi
4.1    The main objectives of the project are to (1) help restore public transport capacity in
Kazakhstan's three main cities, Almaty, Karanda and Shimknt to adequate levels of srvice
quality; and (ii) design and implement some key impwvements in policies and institutions
desctibed, inter alla, in the PSAP in the urban public tansport sector of the three cities. These
improvements especially aim at creating an enviment which promotes effiiency in the sector
and encourages susinable development of the cities' public trarsport  mpanies. The project
Is limited to three cities so as to speed project preparation and faclitate supevision. It is
expected that the policy and institutional measures developed through the project wil become
models for improving public transport in Kazakhstan's other main cities.
B. ationale for World Bank Involvement
4.2    World Bank involvement in urtban trsport in Kazakhstan is justfied for three major
reasons. The first is that the Govenment of Kazakhstn is giving priority to improving urban
public transport services which are currently eeriencing a crisis due mainly to the poor
condition of the vehicle fleets and the shortage of foreign exchange: in this context, the World
Bank can play an important role through dte project in helping to establish the rigiMt expenditure
priorties, providing foreign exchange, and putting in place efficient project implementation
mechanisms. Secondly, based on its broad experience in the sector and, more generally in
ifrastructure, the World Bank can provide some key assistance to the Government in designing
and implementng major policy and institutional refonns for the sector. Thirdly, as the first
World Bank investment project in Xazakhstan, it will help establish a sound operonal
rationship between the World Bank and the Govemment More generally, the project fits well
the World Bank's objectives in Kazakhstan through its emphasis on enterprise reform and
improving public resources management in a market economy context. It will help alleviate the
cunt crisis in urban public transport which affects a large majority of the population, including
the poorest.
C. ftwect
4.3    The project has the following main components:
a)   Provision of about 300 new standard single deck urban buses (100-110 passengers
capacity);
b)   Rehabilitation of about 550 buses and 400 trolleybuses including provision of
neceay  spare parts and supplies;
c)   Provision of a limited quantity of workshop and office equipment and;
d)   provision of taining and tehnical asistance.



- 21 -
Further detils on each component are provided below.
4.4    As shown in Chapter V, theneed fornew buses is well over 300 but the number ofnew
buses to be provided under the project has been dtermine by the loan mount. Nevertheless,
the provision of such a quantity of new buses, together with the provision of spare parts, wi
ensure tht the project companies inan  a mirimum capacty in the coming years. The acua
number of new buses wil be adjusted an the basis of the unit price of the winning bids and of
the fuds needed to pwrchase the entire lt of spare pat required for vehicle rehabilitation
(which is consded a priority). Draft detailed technical specifications have already been
prepared by the prect companies, asisted by a World Bank financed consultant. These
specificationcorrespond to a heavy duty uban bus adapted to local condiions; such a bus
would be comparable in perfamance to the Daw  buses that the comies are curently using
and to which the companie' opeaons and maintenance practc  are adapted. Specifications
are being further reviewed by the Project Implemenion Unit (PIU) of MOE. The allocation
of new buses to the project companies has been decded on the basis of an analysis of needs as
developed in Chapter V with 200 buses allocated for Almaty, 60 for Karaganda, and 40 for
Shimkent.
4.5    The condition of the vehicle fleets of ie project companies was rviewed during project
preparation. The review found that the priority was to rehabilitate or carty out major repirs on
about 550 Hungain made Iarus buses and about 400 Russian made ZIL trolley buses. The
focus on only two types of vehicles ensures that the pr eent of spare parts and supplies for
reairs will remain relatively simple and quick. As part of the review, the project companies
cuared out a detaied analysis of thei spare parts and suplies needs for these vehicles with the
assistance of a World Bank financed const.The result of this analysis is included in Annex
4.1. Te Ikans buses make the largest reive contribution to the companies' tranwort capacity
and their rehilition is thus essential to address the current capacity constaints. Trolleybuses
are also consideed essential becase of their poor condition and the fact that they are non-
polluting.
4.6    Worksop and office equipment in the project companis as well as in government
agencies is inadequate and often obsoete. Modern tools and masming equipment, in particular,
are badly needed. The consultants to be engaged as a part of the project will prepare lists of high
priority equipment for purchase from project funds. The total cost of these items will be limited
to US$300,000.
4.7    Training and echical a_si e will be mainly (i to assist the Government to design
and implement policy imprvements included in the PSAP; (ii) to assist project companies to
develop their capabilities in vehicle maintenance, opeations, and fince; and (iii) for project
implementati. The following main tas  will be carried out
As te intiondal urba bus maet s very gmente, ad ter ha not    any similar Inraa tender in
recet years, ther is an unusd uetainty a to what te unit prie wil be. Price e_maes provided to the apprasl
mimac by vaious m_ufr  varid by mor  a SO%.



-22 -
(a)  l    n      _ munM
*    seminars and study trips on the m       of urban public tsport
policies and orgaization.
*    analysis of public tansort demad, cost, affordability, and tariffs;
*    impovements in the system of fare exempions and in the collection of
fares;
*    establishment of transparent procedures for alca    of subsidies to the
project compnies;
*    improvements in the charters of the project  mpanies and their contctua
relafionships wihi tie city and oblast gonmets;
-   formuation and  lemation of measus t encounge the provision of
urban public transp  seavices by the privabt secr,
(b) InstiMdonal Devlmet
*    improvrements in organization and nant of vehicle maintenance;
*    imxprovements in orniztion and maintea     of public transport
opertons;
*    improvements in accounting, cost accoutng, and budget prparon
prcedures;
*   genera assessment of computer needs; and
(c) Proiect D=eMdaon and ImAMaumeon
*   prvision of additional poe t eertise to the PIU of MOE and of
third party inspection services for the new buses and possibly some key,
expensive spare pus.
It is estimated that about 135 staff months of conay services will be rquired to cay out
this program, of which 70 would be foreip and 65 local. Draft terms of efere (rORs) for
the policy improvements and insdtutional development servic  are included in Annex 4.2. These
senvices are conceived as a coherent package and include seminars and study tips for higher
level officials which are expected to be financed by the European Community and conducted
early in project implementon. Most of the cost of the  tng included in the project will be
for trips to foreign countries and organation of seminars. A deailed program for each aining
session, including the Lists of trainees, would be agreed between the World Bank and MOT prio
to the depure of the first trinees.



- 23 -
D. Cost Eshfte
4.8    The total cost of the project is US$42.4 million with a forign component of US$40.5
million equivalent. A detailed cost estimate h given in Annex 4.3 and summarized in the table
below:
E,imated Pect Cost
(US$ ndmIi)
Component                                     Lal    Foreign    Total
Provision of about 300 new buses                   0.5      28.0      28.5
Rehlabilitaion of existing buses & trolleybuses    0.7       8.3       9.0
Training and Technical Assstance                   0.6       2.2       2.8
Equipment                                                    0.3       0.3
Base Cost                                         1.8      38.8      40.6
Price Contingencies                                0.1       1.7       1.8
Total Cost                                        1.9      40.5      42.4
4.9    The base costs are esdmated as of March 1993. They do not include aes and import
duties since the Government intends to exempt goods and servic  financed by the project from
such taes. The cost of buses, esmated at US$85,000 per bus plus 10% for an iniial supply
of spare parts, is based on the lowest wold markt pices as of early 1993. The foreign
exchange cost of the rehabilition of buses, which is mostly for imported spare part, is based
on the lists of parts  ed by the prqject compaies, as explained in Annex 4.1. The cost of
technical assistance and training is based on recent expedence. Price con   on foreign
exchange costs were based on estimated inflon rates of 2.8% in 1993 and themfter. It is
assumed that the rate of exchange will depreciate in step with local inflation; price contingencies
on local costs (expressed in US$) are therefore based on the same inteional intion rates.
There are no physical contingencies as the number of new buses to be purchased (by fir the
main component of the loan) will need to be adjusted in any case, based on actual bid prices.
4.10   The base costs for consultants' services accding to category of technical assistance are
given below.



- 24 -
Local      FPreign       Total
(US$ million)
Poicy Improvements and Instudonal           0.5          1.8          2.3
Development
Project Prepaation and Implementaion        0.1         0.4           0.5
Total                                  0.6          2.2          2.8
LF Ebdn
4.11   The World Bank loan of US$40.0 milLon wil cover about 94% of the total project cost
and 98% of the foreign cost Te European Community will finance US$0.6 million, or about
1.5% of total costs, for emmsand study tours. Funds to cover local costs for the project will
be provided mainly by the project companies which will take responsibility for the local delivery
of the new buses and the spare parts, and canry out the r a     of the buses and
troleybuses at their own expense. The low local cost and, consequently, the high World Bank
sbare of total fincing are due to (1) the unusual proporion of goods, probably all foreign
made, to be provided under this project, and (ii) the undervauain of the local cumrcy aganst
the US dollar and other crencies. For emple, the cost of vehicle rehabilitation converted at
the change rate of March 1993 is less tan a tenth of what woud normaly be expected in
middle incom countries. The new buses and spare parts will be passed on as grants to the
proect companies mainly to keep project arrangements as simple as possible and avoid adding
a layer of complexity to the new, and still fragie, subsidy system for urban public trsporL
Specific apopriatons will be made in the central govemment budget to cover the grants and
their value will be calcated on the basis of the official exchange rate. The same principle will
be used to enter the asset value of the new buses in the balnce sheets of the project companies.
F. IMplemeon
4.12   MOT will cooinate and have oveall responsibility for the physical execution of the
proect. It will also be responsible for all the technical aspects. These sks include genera
coordination and monitoring, liaison with the project companies and the local governments,
identificaton and resolution of implemtaion problems, esing  at all parties to the project
fulfill their obligations, prepaton of quartely reports to the World Bank (including statistics
on the operation and fimancial performance of the project companies), finalization of the terms
of reference for the waining and technical asistance component, assistance and supervision of
onutants, finlizaion of the lists of spare parts and suppLes, and finalization of the deailed
specfications for the buses. Withn the Ministry thee will be a Project Coordinafion Unit which
will be staffed by a Project Coordinat  (the Deputy Chief of Road Transport), two staff
involved in economic, financial, and policy matters, one staff for  dinatng the procrement
of new buses and another for procurement of spare parts and the rehilitation of buses and



-25-
trolleybuses. Ther will also be Project Coordiaon Units for the city of Almay and tie two
oblasts of Karaganda and Shimkent. Local consultants for Project Coordinatin Units will be
financed under the prect. The Project coorinton Unit in MOr will be asssted and advised
in procrement mafters by the PIU of MOE.
4.13   Procuremt will be in accordance with the Bank's Procuremt guidelines. The agency
for processing prcurement activities will be a foreign trade agency whose tems and conditionts
of employment are aceptable to the BanL The PIU of MOE will be responsble for most of the
procement work, such as praration of the bidding and oer prt documents for new
buses, spare parts, and equipment, and pepation of the various lots for spare parts and
equipment. Me PMI will advise the trade agency on pcurment in general and on World Bank
ndes and procedures in partiular, and enswe that p  ent proceeds satisfactordly. In
additon, the PIU wil be eponsible for disbursement and fimncial recording for all World
Bank financed           Reopeniitu.  p it  for pruent of consultns' services will be
sared by the PIU and MOT. MOT will be r    le  for all pwcurement, contractual and
logistical  gemen   while the PIU will have a c         and advisory role and be
responsible for disbursements. A generl manager, pt manager, and an accounting
officer anae already been appointed to the PIU and the Government is in the process of
recruiting more foreig and local staff, some of whom would be aigned to work only on
pwacurement for this project. Foreign staff will be financed under the on-going Technical
Assistance projet as well as under fhis project Adeqt gaffing and organization of the PIU,
including in particular the establishment of an accounting system acceptable to the Bank will be
a condition of efectiveness of the Loan (para 6.2).
4.14   Under the direction and superviion of MOT, the proec companies will carry out the
physical rehabion of buses and trolleybuses. They will each submit a detaled  iLtaion
plan for the approval of MOT and the Bank at the tme of ordering of the spare parts. These
plans will be the bads for settng up the quantties and delivery schedule to each of the
companies. The project companies in general alleady have the pewnel, workshops, and
equipment needed to cary out these funtions, but they need the spare part and some key
addiftional tools to be provided by the prwect T.he prect companies will also pve MOT
with aU the information and techical support required to carry out the responsibilities set forth
in paragh 4.12 above.
4.15   Through the above arngements, maximum use will be made of the core group of
experts in procurement and disbusement, which the Govemnment is now developing in the PIU.
Staff of MOT wil also be freed from the nitty-gritty of procu t and disbursement and able
to concentrate their attention on implementaion of the projet's policy improvements and
insitutional dveopment acivities. The PIU has similar responsibility for the two first loans to
the Republic of Kazakbstan now approved by the World Bank, the Technical Assistance and the
Rehabiliton loans.
9/     La 3649.KZ (op. cit.) and La 3642-KCZ: Tchil Asse. 1993.



- 26 -
4.16   Alhough it is not ex    tfat the loan for his proje will be effeuve until esecond
quartr of 1994, prqject implementaton needs to be indiated as early as possible so as to award
some contracts as soon as the loan becomes effective. Draft tecnical s fications for e new
buses, deiled lists of spare parts for buses and trleybuses, and draft ms  of reference for
trning and tecnical asstance have already been preared. The PI will now be workng on
the finalization of the prcuremt docments so that   ent can begin in ealy 1994. Mm
Implentan schedWule (Ane 4.4) has been agreed by the Government and the Bank. Project
completion is scheduled for Decmber 31, 1996 to allow suficent time for the trai   and
technical assistance components
4.17   An Implementation Program containing all the substantive prvisions of the PSAP as
well as the actions to be taken by the local govenments and ptoject mpaies has been
substantially adopted by the Government (para 2.15). More spefically, the Implementation
Program consists of:
(i)  a decree adopted by the Cabinet of Mnisters with  ) a description of the goods
and services, financed under the project, to be granted upon the effeicdveness of
the loan agreemend to the local governments; (ii) a description of key condtions
for such gants; and (iil) instr s to the local governments to implement the
decree;
(ii)  decrs adopted by the three local gnmes with (i) a desciption of the goods
and services to be granted to the project compaies, (ii) a desciption of key
conditions for such a grant; and (iii) instructions to the project companies to
implement the resolution; and
(iii) orders adopted by the four project companies accpting the condition of the grants
and commifting the project companies to implement the obligations descrbed in
the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and the loa govemments.
G. Pt_
4.18   The buses and some of the spae part, suplies, and eqpment will be procured by
internationa competitive bidding (ICB) carWied out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines;
bidding documents will be based on the Word Bank's Standard Bidding Documets for
Procurment of Goods. For the buses, special care will be taken to ensure tat the mauas
are well quaed, financialy and technically, to cary out the contract on schedule, to provide
buses with a proven record of depdabiLity and to establish adequate maintenance and spae
part support in Kazakhstan. The contract will be awaded on the basis of lowest lifeime cost
based on docmented data to be prvided by the bidders (see Annex 4.5). Prcurement
consultants will asist the Borrower in settng forth te procedures to obtain the information for
ddeterining the contracos' qualificaions and the lifetime cost. Consultants will also assist the
Bonrower m esblishing th propriate in-plant inopecion and tsting procedures and in
carrying out this work. Items of a proprietary nature or manufactured by a single supplier,
subject to approval by the Bank, will be procured thrm    direct conttng for a maximum



- 27 -
total value of US$6.3 mDllion. Other iteu of small value, simated to cost US$0.25 million or
less per contract, will be procured though inteaond  shopping (IS) up to an aggregt amount
of US$ 0.8 milLon per contract (at least three quotatons will be secured fom at leas three
member coutries). Lar   cont,cts except for direct contracts, wil be let on the bais of ICB.
Ihe rebiliion of veles,   mated to cost US$1.0 million, and putting of new vehicles Into
operation, esimated to cost US$500,000, will not be financed by the Bank but will be a local
contibution of the project companies which will supply the necessary labor and worksop
faities.
4.19   The eVence gained under the Frst Rebilition Project in the Russian Feratin
(which included the prvisio of large amounts of spare parts for uban buses) will be used in
seecting the procurnt method for  e project Consultants will be engged using procdu
set forth in the Wodd Ban's Gidelnes for Use of Conltants (August 1981). The table below
smmarizes the methods of pr et; further deails are given in Anne 4.5.
Summary of ProcUe pAramn
(US$ million equivalent)
Pru te m ent    od
Projec Element               ICB      Other    NEF        Total
cost
1. Goods
a) New Buses                        29.4                 0.S a]    29.9
(29.3)                         (29.3)
b) Spanepa   and suppgies            1.5       7.1 b/               8.6
and equipment                      (1.5)     (6.9)                (8.4)
2. Rehalitation of vehicles                               1.0 a/      1.0
3. Consultancies                                 2.3 o1    0.6        2.9
(2.3)                (2.3)
Total                              30.9       9.4       2.1       42.4
(30.8)     (9.2)               (40.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by he World BanX
NBF: Not Bank Fianced
a Lagely eonmes (suc as labor and wokshp faciios) prided in kimd by th poject co
W Iclude diect _ontag for propeary aems (U;$63 mion) and inernaa shopping (US$0.1 =.Ike
0/ S;vices wll be prod in acooe th Wold DBak Guidimes: U  of Co _*lan by
Wadd B   Borroes ad by th Word Bak as Exeuing AJecy (Wdashg, D.C., At  191).



- 28 -
4.20   AU dirt contracts, goods cmtract for packages over US$250,000, and all consultants
and taining contacts will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Other contrt wiU be
submitted to post review. The total value of contra  subject to pro-review will be US$39.4
million.
4.21   The Loan will be disbursed on the basis of 100% of foreign expenditres for imported
goods, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) for goods procured from local
manufacturers and 70% of local e ues for other goods procured locally, and 100% of the
costs of consultants' serAces and taning, net of tax. The esmated disbursement schedue is
in Annex 4.6. It is not in accordance with disbursement profiles for tansport projects because
the project is of an unuul nature. Most disbursements will be for a few contcts to be let in
1994 and the contrac  will bave a relatively short manuf deivery priod. Retroacdve
financing    consants' serices for an amount not to exceed US$ 200,000 wil be provided
under the project for expenditures incured after January 1 1994 and before the date of the loan
agrement. Loan closing date will be June 30, 1997.
4.22   In order to factate and ecpedite dsrs uements, a Special Account in dollars will be
establsed f  the Borwer in a commerdal bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
World Bank. Tiee will be an initial deposit of US$1.0 million sufficient to cove exenditures
to be paid from the Special Accut over four months. All disbursements under the project will
be made againt  standard documentation except for goods contracts valued at less than
US$100,000 equivalent, which may be claimed under Statements of xpenditures (SOB with
related docum io    ned by the PIU for review by World Bank supervision missions.
L ftqz" _Aount andARMng
4.23   The Government has agreed that
a) project accounts as well as the accounts of the project companies will be
maintained in accordance with prooedures acceptable to the World Bank the
procedures were discused during appraisal and will be agreed upon during the
Project Launch Workshop mission;
b) all project records and accounts, including those for the SOEs and the Special
Account as well as the accounts of the prqect companies will be audited annually
m acordac with procedures acceptable to the World Bank by independent
auditors acoeptable to the World Bank; and
c)  the World Bank will receive crified copies of the audit reports no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year of the borrower.



- 29 -
4.24   Quaerdy progress reports coveing all components will be prepard by MOT and set
to the World Bank wiin one month of the end of each quarter. TI  fir report wil be isud
before Apdl 30, 1994. These reports will include:
a)   progress achieved aginst agreed i entation and dirsement schedules;
b)   prgr  and and cost esmatn for the coming quarter ad for th ta prjec;
c)   progress with the implemato of the PSAP; and
d)   operational statistics and financial sments of the project compaies.
The main purpose of these reports will be to provide managers and the Wodd Bank with dmely
and updated informaon on implementation of the project, highlighting issues and problem areas,
recommending actons and commenting an progress in implengpevious recommendations.
MOT will also prepare a prject completon report in accordac with Wod Bank guideines
no later than six months after competion of the project.
J. -oe - c.
4.25   Three World Bank supervision missions per year, each std  by a transport spciist,
a financial secaist, and one or more speciaists in urbn transport equipment and opeqatios,
each of about two weeks duration, will be requred duing the two and the quarte yea  of
poect execution. Missions will review all components of the proect as well as Intiutional and
policy measur  related to the proect and the status and development of urban tasport
operations in the three prject cies. A Proect aunmch Workshop will be hdd in Apil 1994 and
mid-term review of project implementaion in April 1995. The proct's  pervision pa is in
Annex 4.7. A key part of the suevisin will be to follw up on implementation of the PSAP
including policy and insdttuional measure and key operaional indicators included in the PSAP
(Annex 2.2, Attachment 1).
K. El *u_ AscS
4.26   The project is expected to have a positive impact on the envint because, on
balance, it woud produce more favorable than unfavorable      The poject has a C
rating. The main enviwmental changes to be expet  from the project are that the project
ompani in the three cities will be opeting a larger number of vehicles, but a ubstantial part
wil be new or rehabilitaed diesel buses which wMi produce sbaniaUly less noise and air
pollution per bus. Ihe increase in transport capacity will also allow the prqject compan  to
retire some of their oldes buses which are gasoline powered, noisy, and very poluting. In
addion, the improvement in vehicle maintenance wbih is eected to result from the tecical
asta    and the povisin of better tools and equipment will elp reduce vehicle emissions.
Finally, the project wll help maximiz the use of non-polluting olleybuse.



-30 -
V. ZIW-E AM uLi
A.          _ =
5.1         The project's mai justfication is that it wil help considerably to alleviate hie
public trsport compans swrte of capacity in Almaty, Kraga, and Shimkeat. Due in
part to this shortage of capacity and the restng poor quaity of serice, public transpot
demand has dropped by an aerage of 30% in the past few yean in the throe cities. Given that
there is no alteaive to public transport for most of the populton, the impact is consideral
on peronal lives, labor mobility, and the functoning of markets. The poorer and older part of
the poplation are also dispponately affected. The high direct cost of time lost, poor quality
of service, and tips lost (and theefore the high oortunity cost of not doing the project) is
shown by people's willigness to use the informa taxi and minibus services that have recently
sprung up and which ae much more costly than the project companies' services. However, it
is not possible to make a sound assessment of the project's economic rate of return since no
study is availe of ime values, trip values, and trip duatio under difeent suply searios.
It should neverthe  be cnidered that the project is part of the least cost solution to provide
a minimum level of service quality. Tbis is demonstra   by the analysis in paa 5.3 which
shows that large numbers of new buses need to be acqured by the ftfree project cities to enable
them to meet the minimum leve of service quality deemed acceptable in the World Ba's
Urban Transport Sectr Policy Study (UTSPS). Since many vehicles are reacbing the end of
their sevice life and the lack of foreig exchne may limit the purchase of essential spare parts
even more in the future, the shoage of public tansport capacity will worsen if the project is
not carried out. Service quality would become even poorer and more taips would be lost.
5.2         The project wod also help put in place better urban tansport policies and
insituonal improvements whih would promote a more efficient development of the sector n
the long term in the project cities These reforms are expected to provide a model for other
pubc transport companies in Kakhbst  and, possibly, for oter saowned companies in the
infrastruce sector. In addiin, the pioect is expected to have a positive impact on the
envirnment.
5.3         An analysis of publc tansport capacity needs was cwed out on the basis of data
provided by the project compa  on their fleets and operations in mid-1993. The anaysis is
also based on mid-1994 forecasts for traffic demand and vehicle availaility. The analysis is
based on the following mai assumptions: (i) tiansport demand under minimum standard of
service quality would be at the 1991 level; (n) vehicle vWailability wold rch 70% for vehicles
manufactured in the PSU (which i about the best levd achieved in tie past), and 85% for the
IIarus buses (which ames that these buses wil be rehabilitted under the project), and the
vehicles' serice life would be 8 years and 12 years, respectively; (jii) vehicle daily passenger
loads capacity would be the maximum of the range deemed acble in the World Bank's 1986
UTSPS (i.e. the quality of sevice would be t1a minimum); and (iv) the shortage of drives in
Almaty would no longer be a constraint. The results of this analysis are in the table below:



-31 -
Bus Jet Capacity Needs In
Abnaty, aguca, and Shlmkent (mid-1994)
Usable     Availble   Capacit      Capacit     Shortage       Fleet
City       Fleet        Feet     Offered      Needed      Capacity      Needs
(buS)       (buses)                    day)                  (buses)
Almaty         1,011        737      865,000    1,354,000    489,000         402
Karaganda       574         452      688,000      807,000    119,000         98
Shinkent        299         228      278,000      365,000     87,000         72
Note: . e analyss excludes harter buses and tabes account of the recent purchase of about 100
second hand arcuated buses in Karaganda. No ohe recent puchases, if any, have been
taken into account.
5.4         The anlys shows th  emen after rilitatin of the Darw  buses, thae will
still be a vey substandal shortage of capacity. There is a need for about 572 new standard single
deck urban buses in the prject ctes. About 70% of the need is in Almty (which has about
50% of the combined popuaion), maily becase of the higher sae of Alat's bus fleet
which will reach the end of its service life in the nea future and because of the lower proportion
of Ikau buss
B. Mahi ft
5.5         Ther are two main projec rsks: (i) delays in project execution; and (ii)
incomplete impltion of the PSAP. Project exeut  coudd be ddayed mainly because of
the Borrower's   ex       with procurement of goods and services and the lack of clarity
concerning government procedus for prouent action and review and contract approval.
To minimi these rs, spni   for prepa            of prcen docments and monitring
execudon of prorement has been given to the PIU of the MO, which the Govemment is
developing as the initial focus of expetise in the country for pemet under aid projects.
The PIU has trained staff, frequent contact  with Word Bank miions, and access to senior
govnment officials. The PIU will also have foeign adviser and the recruitment of these
advisers is a condition of loan effectiveness (paa 6.3). Furtemore, procurment has been
iniated as early as psible duting proect prepat   (pa  4.16). However, problems in
procedures and institutional capability rmain possible and Waold Bank supavision work will
need to ensure that these problems are quickly resolved. A specific risk concerns the raively
large contrt for the procurmt of new buses but bid documents have been prepared by a
World Bank financed constnt to ensure speed and quality of work and are now being reviewed
by the PIU.



-32-
5.6         The  Is also a ris that e  AP wod b implemented only parly for lack
of poltic  wil or because detailed  'Ipementaion  ,to be prepaed with th assistance:
of feign  nsultants, would not move flly aiactory. Except for fare ineases, however,
the PSAP incopates policis for which there is already a broad consens, as wel as a smg
desire in tie cetral and local governments to implmen practa solutions. Th  ik of political
constaints i thus reuctivey mited. Ao, the tehia aisstace and trining prognm has
been conceived to ensure that the impleentatim  meases are well dedgned, adapted to local
needs, and formulated in   at       with all parties concered. Regarding fiae increases, the
local govnment hmae aledy agreed to incras fares regularly in step with inflation and there
will be a ra increase at the tme th new buses are put into operatio (pa 2.42).
5.7         World Bank svmision missions wil need to devote enough tme to supervising
fte prepation of measumes to implement the PSAP. A formal mid-term review should take
place In July 1995. More generly and especialy for cost rovery, the Bank will stre that
the type of actions included in the PSAP are needed to create a sasfactory poicy famework
for all urban and transport infrastructure subsectors. Subdanti pgess in mpmeng the
PSAP would thus provide eqperience and demonst  the Govemment's com nt for furffher
reforms in these sbset   and could form a basis for future Wodd Bank lending.



-33 -
VI. _
6.1   During negoions, agreement was reached an the folowing:
(a)  implementation of the PSAP and the mplemention P am (pas 2.15 and
4.17)
(b)   debt service coverage rtio of not less t   2:1 to be maintained at all mes by
Xt ptoject companies (pam 2.39); and
(c)   pa     r fares t cover at least 25% of the operAtng cost of tanspot per
passenger (excludig investment costs) by the time half or more of the new buses
financed under the project are pu into opeation (p;a 2.42).
6.2   The foLowing will be conitions of Loan effectiveness:
(a)   adoption of decrees and orders by the local govenments and the project
comanies, aceptable to the Bank, comlemening te Implemention Program
(pam 2.15);
(b) submission of an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for reducing the shortage
of drives in Almat (pam 2.31); and
(c)   adequate staffing and oranizaon of the PIU (pam 4.13)
6.3   On the basis of the above  rments, the project is sutable for a Waold Bank loan of
US$40.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Kazkhstan for 17 years, including 5 years of
grae, at the World Bank's sandard variable interest rate.



-34 -                                                              AMc 2. 1
Statistics on Urban Population
_P_at                   ?m   Pan                                  _            _
pqwamr  r  am
ObM   VAWWcmp                                                    Qbw          amp          Cbw          CW
Re*           ciav          ayhi    LoIa=        1550  9 m            sg      1950493    1543490    IO15*            1,6049W 9   zm m
I       AUMag              x         mso0                 910      1.12n           547          as           0W          2            442
2       Kowa  _            x                    5o        57         so             9A                       14.4         5?           Ss
S                          a          MA        57        522        459          3504          54.     W      .7        117          19t
4       S    uM1d *        s_          ah   x26           2m          45           I"9          2t9          462          ea          lot
S                          a          boa       166       27m        542           468          255           3.9         a           15S
6       U      m     *         x                730       274        333           IL1          21.          44.8          9          1
7       Z1                 a           axth     187       264        312           41.2        18.          du           468         125
8       TuT   l           I           _NW      10       254        219           30           23.5         0A            5          109
9       AhmNat       x                Sam        S  1      91        254           27153   33J                             3          104
10       ?4oplwdw*                               173      77         248            t1           19J          43.4         41           7S
it       Kaa                a         am*         2        lO5        4           55.          41.           66.          68          1t0
12       US"               a          VW         129      16?        214           295          28.1          65.          47           85
13       T.tu                                    146      213        21W            230                       2115          0          47
14       Ahsmx                        was         59       1II       1o             31          523          166.4         so          Ito
is       KYIO&             x          smit       122   tS6           La6           27.9           1.3         29.           2           36
16       Ayim              x          wen        114       131       LS             1t9           6.8          4.2         22     Z      9
17       Kdchlw            a      8 mD            s        103       14U           28.8         S8.    a8                  40           a
18       EMU=                                     43       46        139           5lO          it"         233            73          9f
19       Tdd.wqu           2            A h       41        a        136           44.          545          12LO          48           iS
20       R-ff4                                    9        110        179           144          17J          MA4          19     #
21         _svM             a           _         42        a         1it           4.5          241          7&80         22           49
22   tl1'sh                                       73        78        S        6      8          128    U     2            10           i
21       T; _sA                                  54         a7       8at           24.           20.9         as           14           27
24       tinin                                                        73                                                   73           73
25    I_lmg*                                      In  6S              70            42            2.9         .4            2           4
26       A*                                        s 15     48        a            22L           "A4         3333    t      7     S
27       N    lD                                  5         49        a             48           52t          97           146          32
2                                                 40        so 4s 50  6             2            30.0          s5          is           25
29       1um                                      46        52        6S            150          25*          413         1a            1
30       S9                                       49        55        d0            1.2         14.5          2L4           8           14
3t       S_*C                                     40        48        S6            20           1417         40*           8           id
52  S64Wy*                                        54        S1        54            49            $.9         434           3           4
35         Ibmt                                             30        a            172.1         ??          31.8          25           42
Taed 3 d     V PMmm                   4.386   5525       6)40            2AO          25iS        52         1,4tS        254
Tead U1ba Pq*n                          NA    NA    9W697
lqu@  teld p_a"                      1509    1464,        14.71           19           13.9         23.5
Rqui p_     osn.53 e_                 8.        9t159     9.781            6.2          6.8         1U.4
Rlqbfa sem i u   dlU1a                  NA       NA       7.4
% of pwso  n33 _.                        33.7     3?A        4S S
serpamIi1mIau6mm                        NA       NA          58.0
S od  adOWm*  la 33                                                       d 40o        685          68.8



-35-                                 m=
Page 1 of 4
Policy Stae_mt and Action Plan for bmroving Pbblc
Transport Series hi Almat, Karganda, and Sldmkent
1.     he following Poly Statemt and Action Plan refrs to the policies and actions to be
by the govenument of the Republic of Kaasan, the government of the City of
Almaty, and the g  ments of the Kaaganda and Shimkent Oblass (*Government), and the
fow uban passenger trport companie of Almat, Karaganda, and Shinkent ('Compaies).
UrbanLr           3 Mog  Tarffs
2.   Ihe policy of the Goverment is to move away from the present system of cost recovery
where local taxes cover the miaor part of costs to one where passenger revenues cover an
ineasing share of operpAonal costs. As part of this poicy, a Govemment objective is to
establish as soon as possible the pdre of the normal passenger ticket at a level equal to the
operatng cost (excludi investme cost) of tsport per passe . For this purpose, the price
of the ticket wi be inreased steadily above the rate of infla, wile sl takdng 80Ccunt of
the average income of the popuaton, espcially in relaon to the price of food and other baic
items. In the meanwhile, to ensue that any progrss made with fares ineased ealier in 1993
is not eroded by the high levd of iion, the Governent will take immediate meases to
index bf   to a local pice index issued by the State Committee for Stds. Fares will then
be increasd to the June 1993 level if, after applying the price index, fare are lower than the
June 1993 level in real tm.
3.    Government epects that the price of a normal passenger ticket wil be equal to 55% of
te opaing cost (excluding investment cost) of tnsport per penger by June 30, 1995. To
help achieve this and other t s, the Goverment wil carry out a study of pubLic tansport
demand, cost, affodabiity, and tariffs in Almaty, KaMaganda, and bhimkent Te study, to be
completed by Marh 31, 1995, will in partcular be aimed at formatng guidelines on when and
how ful cost recvery coud be reached in the medium to long term. As an interim measure,
the Goverment will incrase  pnger fa  so as to cover 25% of the opating cost of
tasport per pasger (excluding investment cost) when half of the buses financed under the
World Bank finnced urban transport project ae put into operation in each city.
4.    Ie syste   of exempto  or lowe fare for special groups will be rviewed and, if
necsary, revised so that pocial far  are limited o the xmost needy groups and no one else.
The collection of fa  will also be improved and a more effectve control ystem put in place.
For these purposes, a study will be cawied out before March 31, 1995, and measures en as
shown necessary by the study before June 30, 1995.



-36-                             Ane2x2
Page 2 of 4
5.    Government policy is that the Companies will be provided in a timely fashion with funds
sufficient to operate under reasonable technical standas and minimum acceptable levels of
quality of service. To this end, local orgs of power have been authorized to levy special taxes
for the purpose of funding uban tnspor
6.    Funds will be allocated monthly to the Compnies on the bais of their opating and
investments budgets.      operating budget will be prepred and approved each year on the
basis of the actua costs, adjusted monthly to take account of inflation, of agreed levels of quality
of  ve taking account of ageed im    nts in efEncy (for example, through inpoved
mantenance, reducdon of fuel consmption, and reduction of peronnel). Improved targets of
petformance for the Companies are attached to this PSAP (Attchment 1). The investment
budgets will be prepared and approved each year on the basis of an agreed saegy for
improvement and renewal of the Companies' feet and equipment as necesury under reasonable
standards to maintain or imprve the levels of quality of seice. For these purposes, the
Companies will review by December 31, 1994, the medhodologies and procedures for
prprton of tir opeati  and capl budgets. TMe local govenmts wil also review by
December 31, 1994, the procedures for submission and analysis of subsidy requests. Decisions
will be taken soon therftr so that an adequate subsidy system can be used staring on March
31, 1995.
ad      W    betee th   m d  adthe goim
7.    The policy of the Goverment is that the Compan  will be autonomous and free to ae
al their deciins regardg orgazation and cang out of operations and maintnance,
purchases of spa  part, splies and maIas, fiancial trsct , and personn  matters
(under sategies and guideies defined by the Companies' owners, the local govets).
Ther will be a deied charter establshing the main r bilities of the Compaies, the
princips under which they operate and their gener  ganization The will also be a deailed
contact between the local gonments and senir    gement of the Compnies setfing up the
objectives of the Compnie in tems of service (atlay ro    and freqencies) and
efficiency. There wil also be similar contra  between the senir  nagers of the Companies
and the managers of the depots. Achievement of the objectiv  will be meased through agreed
indicaton and target values, and part of the salary of the senior and depot managers will depend
on their results.
8.    The Companies' legl statu and thi exst  charters and contrt will also be reised
to reflect the above policies, take account of the changs in the legal stuct  in Kaakhstan
(especially the laws and reltions regarding the poalat  of public enprdses), include
objectives, and  ramline the Compnies' retng requ     ts and operational
upevision prcedures. In paralel, the capability of the local govenments to supervise the
Companies will be imprved. For these ppoes, a study will be carried out before March 31,



- 37 -
Page 3 of 4
1995 and decisions taken as soon as possibl theraft  on    improved system of goveanc
and contractual rtion   so that adequate charters and contr   can be used on a pilot basis
between June and December 1995, and effecidvely sarting on Januy 1, 1996.
Com=pftlt anld Rlste ProinofPbec SM M
9.   The policy of the Govnm t h to promote efficient compitn in the provion of
urban passenger tnsr services and to encorage t  gowth of alunative supplers of such
srvices Any prson or ompany willing to provide any typc of service will therefore be
authorized to do so, pwided that it meets nadonal stds rga g sfety and pollutior and
can show evidence of a minimum leve of professona capability. Tbere win not be any othe
resictive rule, and taff will be set fieely by the prviders of the services For these purposes,
the Government will review by Macb 31,1 995, its icensing stndards and procedures and its
relevant regulations, and, on this basis, tae  decision by June 30, 1995, on necessry
improvements. In addiion, the Govment wil prepare by June 30, 1995, sitable measures
for the competitive tendering of public tra     Such tendeing will be implemented on a pilot
basis on at least two routes in Almt, Karaganda and Shimkent before Decembe 31, 1995.



- 38 -                          Anne 2.2
Page 4 of 4
Atahment 1
Policy Statmt and Active Plan for
lmproving Pubic Trasport Servis In Aimaty,
Karaganda and Shhnkent
Plerformanc Tarets for Publib  Tnsport Compais
of Almty, Kargnda, and Shhmken
Target
PerformaLnce  icato                June 1995        June 1996
1. Passen  carried per opting vehicle/day
Autobus:
Aimaty                                         1,200            1,200
Karaganda                                      1,350             1,350
Sthimket                                       1,200             1,200
Trolleybus:
Alma, Shimkent                                 1,000             1,000
2. Km per opeatin veWiletday:
Autobus                                          220               240
Troleybus                                        190               220
3. Availabilit: vehices in svice as a pertage
Of total fleet:
Autobus                                           70                80
Trolleybus                                        80                90
4. Average number of breakdowns as a                 12                10
perentage of buses/troleybuses
in opertion each day
5. Staff employed per vehice (bus,
(trolleybus, and am)b:                             4                 4
a/ Urban services only.
b/ Includes adminisative, maintenance and opeatnal staff.



-39-                                         A=  2.3
Number of Urbas Pagers Tnwsported Aimauly
In Abaty, Ka            , and Simkeut
(AIMilo  Passener)
Moda       Decrtem
city          Mode          1985     1989      1990      1991      1992     Splt      1990-1992
Almaty         Autobus          392.8    4853      476.9    4381       343.8      78.5          28
TW*b=             69.8      98.1    101.9      84.6      67.3      15.3          34
Tm                42.1      47.0     48.6      37.4      26S        62           45
TOaW             504.7    630.4    627.4    560.1    437.6                       30
Kragsa        Autobus           226.9    266.2    253.2    251.9    231.7         97.0          10
TrUeybu           10.5       9.5     10.0       8.7       5.5       23           45
Tram               0         4.0       4.3      3.1       1.6       0.7          63
Total            237.4    279.7    267.S    263.7    238.8                        12
Sbinkat       Autobls           127.9    122.7    114.5    101.0        59.9      73.9          47
TIOblbus          17.2      25.9      27.6     25.2      303       26.1          (10)
TOal             145.1    148.6    142.1    126.2        902                     27
Soa: Publc Tmansport Compai of Albay, Kurdsd, ad Slmkit4 Apl 1993.



- 40 -                                Annex 2.4
REPUBLIC OF KUAZStIN
momA IRASPOR FROM=r
1993 VhIk FRet In Almaty, Karaada, and S       bmkent
Age                       No. of Kilomenrs
Total                                                  ('000)
City and     Number
Mode          of       03       4-6     7-9       10+     0-250   250-500    500+
Vehicles
Autobus         1707      S00      442      462      303      681       983       43
Trolleybus       385       63      1S0      120       52      111       241       33
Trmas            183       36       30       75       42       66        90       27
Kaaganda
Autobus          655       95      319      197       44      111       402      142
Trolleybus        68       45       10        5        8       49        19
Trams             12                                  12        1         8        5
Shimkent
Autobus          362      107       86      104       65      109       160       93
Trolebus          97       23       19       15       40       27        33       37
Source: Publc Trano Compane of Amay, Kagmn,andt Skk. Ai 1993.



- 41 -                               Agnc2.1
UBAN TR&WLEM  ROEf
Availabiity of the Vehle Ileets In AImaty
Ka,gan   and Shlmkent (Aprii 1993)
Waitng
for      Under
Total       Not       Spare       Short    Available      % Fleet
Fleet    Repairable    Parts    Repain       Fleets     Avaiiity
AMmty
Autobus         1,707       205         225        155       1,122         65.7
(of which
aarUs)         (250)       (25)        (75)                  (125)         50.0
Troaleybus       385                     61        37         287          74.5
Tramway          183                     61        58          64          35.0
Karpnda
Autobus          817        39          158        110        S10          62.4
(of which
Ikrus)         (194)                   (77)       (12)       (105)         54.1
Shimkent
Autobus          362                    129        38         195          53.6
(of which
Ikaru)          (155)                  (75)       (21)       (59)          38.0
Note:       Data for Almaty and Kagan  include charter buses nomaly not used for publc
batL,
Souc: Pbic T_pot Compani of Admaty, Kaaada, and inkenAt;   1993.



- 42 -                                  Anen -A6
REUBLIC OF KAZAXHSTAN
URANKTRANTIWuna
Key Prormance Indcators (1M)
Passegel               Kxmf           % Daily
% Fleet     Opeating Vee    OpaB  Vdecll               Break-
Availability        Day                  Day             down*
Amaty
Autobus                 66          1,532                      195             15
TolIeybus               74            962                      175
Tamway                  35          1,562                      176
Kuragpnda
Autobus                 62          1,662                      223           10-15
Shmkent
Autobus                 54          1,470                      190             15
Toleybus                            1,786                      161
values
(World Bank 1986
Urban Trasort
Policy Sdy)            80-90        1,000-1,200              230-26D           -10
v As a percentage of operating feeL
Soureeo Pubi Trapot Compaes of AUsty. K1a_aad, ad Shmlkont Apil 1993.



-43-                             &M 4.1
BBDE 1|l
Famte of Spae P1t and Supplle Needi
1.    The poct comuain  hae prepard deai  lists of pare pu  and supplies for
ailitation  f their floet of lbmus buses and tollybus. Thse lists are bald on the
condition of thc indidal vehiles and the copn' review of their past   Imton of spare
par and sup      for thes vehies. The objecve is oi to put back in opeation the veicle
that have ben sopped, somdme for many months, for lack of spae part and supplie and
(i) to rehablitae tw vehicle whih ae nm in operto when major bekdowns occur to the
gine and the ransmission. It Is estatd that all vhcls in the coened  fleet will need
major repairs in the coming d&hUs   months
2.    The Hts of spare parts and spplies wee reviwed by a World Bank-financed consultant
in June 1993. The draft remut of his review are summaied below:
Needi for Spane Part and SuppUes
For Vehes    For Vehcles
COetY           Still in      For Curent
stoPped       OpraIo           Repair           Total
Mlmaty
Autobues             285           1,885            280            2,45O
Trflebum             300           1,200                           1,500
KaTg"da
Autobum              215           1,385            270            1,870
Shimkent
Autobuses            205           1,465            250            1,920
Troleybuses          160            200                             360
Total              1,165          6,135            800            8,100



- 44 -                          Au= 4.2
Page 1 of 10
IJRGNM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Program of Study Tours, Seminar and Cons_ltancy Servies
for  plementg Policy Reform   d Sthening
InStiuton In the Urban Transport Sector
L      BNackgo  and OMAWLDbkc
A main objective of the project is to implement a statement of policies and action plan
for urban trsport which will be agreed by cent  and local gover ts in Kazakhstan. These
policis (which concem taiff leves and fare collection, subidie, introduction of contual
lationships between the companies and the local governmet, and prmotion of competdtion)
ar aimed at creating an environment which encourages a more efficient provision of uban
tnsport sevices. Another main objecdve of the loan is to assist the public tsport companies
in the three project cities to modeniz and improve the o zion, mement, and work
pratics, in line with the experienoe gained in ote counies. The pvision of services
desced below will help achieve these objecives. With the exception of the assie funded
by the BC, the services will be provided by one urban transport coting firm to be recruited
by Goverment.
IL     Dido  ofthetwi
The assistn  to be provided under this one contt includes:
a)   mo       n of uran passenger tansport pocies and organition (this would
be finmeed by an BC giant and is not included in the project);
b)  analysis of public trsport demand, cot, affordability, and tariff;
c)  imprements in the sstem of fare exemption and in the collecton of fars;
4)   esablishnt of transparent procedures for allocation of subsiies to urban
transp  companies;
e)     e      nts in the chartes of the project companie and their contactual
relionships with the city and oblast governments;
f)  formulation and implemenion of M ues to encouage the provision of ura
pubLic trart services by the priva  sector,
)   impr       t in organition and mnxagement of vehicle maintenance;



- 4S -                           A 2
Page 2 of 10
h)              in organiato and management of public tnsport opedn;
I)  impovement in budget prparato and cost accounting procedures; and
j)   genea  asesment of computer needs.
These serces are descbd  in detail below.
A. Modffon of U  P nme 
Jld and Oren2on
1.     Obiulin. To infom central and local goverment officials and managers of urban
ranspo t companies of the lessons of expeience and modem practices in wban tasport and
fomuate r eomndaton  how to implement such praces in Ka1khstan.
2.     Mal Tasks
a) SU* ids
)      The consltants will orgnie a program of visits and seminars for two
grps of aboutwenty persons each to twoEuren cities. Tcities
md the pubLic tuaport companies to be visited wiNl be sdected for the
effiiency of their transport systems and the inovative soutions
developed in the past The two cities will be in different counties.
One will be of a ie not less tan  at of Almaty, the other will be
smaller. The wiMl be two identcal tdps with an intea of about two
months in order to keep the groups to a manageable size and maximize
the chance for      aon  by high level Kazakh officials and
(ii)    The man subjects to be discussed will be the following:
* Roles of central and local goverments in umban ranport;
* Governance of public transport entrprs, contacal   I
between the comp_a and the govnment, performance assessment;
* Tariff and subsidy poicies, thei implementation in the contrl of
goverment/enterpise contal              ,  genaos and
reaues for subidie;
* Actual and potetial role of the pvat sector, invatv apch
and their im    i - nition;



-46-                               L4.2
Page 3 of 10
* Ubn transt planng;
*  eneal orguizaion and       tof public tanpot companies;
* Maintne policies and implemenaion, quality contro;
* 0          of operations, plannig and 
* Fmancigd aspec including especially budgedng, cot acounting and
audting;
* Investment planing;
* P r t of Spare pa,  pplies, and new equipment, quality
control, stock managment; and
e Use of compum.
(ii)   Ithe semas and fidd trips will be designed to give to the participants
an oveview of the main issues, lessons of expeien, and best
pracdces today in urban trnport in Europe. The emphasis wil be on
(i) u     trport policies and ways and means of implementation and
(u) enterprise organi     and mang_emet and the incetdive and
conol sysm  to  minimie costs for a given lvel of sevice. The
main uan transport modes to be cideed will be urban buses,
toley buses, and, to a lesser extent, twmways. Very litle attention
will be devoted to metms and suburban railways.
(Iv)    The semins will include wevl ppar   esentats with extensive use
of audi    and distribution of written materials in Russian.
Alfthough only two cies wil be visited for practical reasons, in trestng
solution develaped in other cities wiU also be presented.
b)      __
After return of the groups to KazaXhstan and on te bais of reques solicited
duing the study tur, varios specialsts fiom the consuldng fin will visit some
of the cities and pubic tnsport cmpa    represented in the tour. They will
help formulate solutions to the companie' most psng problems, in particular
through the use of the modan pracdces studied during the trip.



.47                              Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 10
1.     Tbi    1. To prvide the economic backgrud for local governments to reew their
pubic transport fa  policies. To formulate guidelines on when and how full cost recovery
could be rached.
2.
a)   Anayde the fato that detmine public traport demand, in particular city
denst and suecu, housing mobility, private car ownerhip, availability of
n-moiized public t port, quality of service, and taiffs. Explain in
prdeula the ras   for tie recent drop in public transport patonage in fte
b)   Assess te costs of public tansport in the proect cities, including recurrent and
investment cos
c)   Analyze avaiabl dataan family  come and expendium in the project cities and
asse  what proportion of their revenues famiies at various income levels can
afford to spend on public anspt
d)   On th bads of thes analyses, assess the impcatons on the general public of
implementin a full cost recovery policy in the project cities. Explain in
partcular the advanages and disAdvantages of suh a policy. Ensure that the
t  constent with the recommendations prepared in section C below
Of hese aters of rference  Also ensu  tat the implications on private sector
develop t are fully takn into account
e)   PrepW    a brief oveview of the publc anspt fe policies in other countries
of the wrd whih coud be rlevant to Kazkhstan.
f)arelpomendationsfor -cnsideration of thelocal govnmentson when and
how full cost recovy could be achieved.
C.                    S      o
and in the Coleton of Pam
Qb. O h. To rvise the system of fare exemptios so as to limt exemptions and
reduced  rs for speci grw   to only the most needy groups To revise fare collection
prcem        and methods of control so as to limit to the greatest possible extent the number of
pasgers who do not pay.



- 48 -                           A.    4-2
Page S of 10
2.    MahnTasks
a)   Review the system of far exemptions and reduced fam in each of the project
cities and compare them with the systems used in various other counies.
b)   Examine the rationale for fare eampons and reduced fr  and identify hie
cases where tWis rationale may be weak, in paricar because it may not be
consistent with the central government's social pohcies or because the objectives
may be achieved more effectively by othr means.
c)   Prepare recommendations on how to reform and simplify the system, including
proposals for impm ti(possibly by stages).
d) Revwiew the procedures for collecdng fares from the passengers and for controlling
that payments are duy made and compare them with the procedures generally
used in other (especily westen) countries.
e)   On the basis of the analysis in part d) and takng acconmt of the specifi
charactistics of transport demand and vehicle fleet in the three project cities,
prepare recommendations on how to improve fare collection including proposal
for implementation (possibly by stages).
f)   Assist the local gonments and public rnsport Cmpnes in each of the project
cities implement the measures that they have taken after review of the consultant's
proposals.
D. EsMubeC Of Tmmnnsa    Pomne for Aacd mof Subsidies to
1.    Objctive. To establish a system for allocaton of the subsidy from local governments
to their pubLc transport companies that provides sufficient funds for omal pations and
investments and promotes improvements in productivity.
2.     Min Tasks
a)   Review the existing systems for subsidy alocation in the three cities with speca
attention to their results in 1993.
b)   Discuss with the local governments and transport companies the advantages and
disadvantages of systems curently employed in various othe counties.
c)   On the basis of comments received, develop a system which is:
(i)    based on actual costs;



-49-                             AnnL 42
Page 6 of 10
()      coordated with improved computized procedures for budget
(iii)   to the grates posible extet, based on existing information so as to
require no additial data collection; and
(iv)    takes into    t target for impr    ts in productivity.
d)   Develop procedures and schedules for preparon of subsidy requests and for
t    rview and approval by loal governments in coordination with local budget
approval procedures.
e)   Develop procedures for regIar accounting and reporting particularly designed to
ensure that subsidy funds are expded only on urban trsport in the city
providing the funds.
. ImprovemDents Xn the Chfartei of the Ofead  COmdnov rnmd thent
1.    OWeelbre. To develop charters and contuacts for the prect companies wbich will
proviMe for autoomous companies with clearly defined relationhips with the local govenments,
measu e  of peformane, and accountality.
2.     NTainsLks
a)   Review the charts of the operting companies in the three cities, as well as the
various contacts between the local Govemments, the companies' senior
managers, and the depot managers. Compare them with the charters and
contrcts in use in swcessfu urban transport oanizati in other countties.
b)   Deveaop proposed charters for each of the opeting compnies and discuss them
with the officials of the companies and of the local governments; the charters will
clearly set forth the main   onilitie  of fte oatng companies, the
princips under which they opte and their genaganizaton. In parcular,
the charters should ensure that the opeAtg companies are free to takunder
srategies and gudelin  defined by their owners, the local governments, all
decisions regarding their organization, opetons, maintenance, purchase of spare
Par and matrials, fmancial tanacons, and pernnel matts.
c)   Formulate detal  contracts between the local governments and tie companies'
senior managers which set forth the objectives of the compane in ter  of
service (paiculy routes and frequencies) and efficiency, with quantitative
targets (icluding cost reduction) whenever possible. Develop detailed sub-
contras beteen the companies' senior managers and the managers of the
dept



~~~~~~~ 0.
I,''11i             T             Iii, 1ii 



-S1-                              4.AM &2
Page 8 of 10
e)   Review the country-wide and locl regulations and procedures that may be
reevAt to the competive fted  of public tnsport routes. Identify potental
bidders and anayze their constraints (hum  resouc, eqWpment, finance, etc.)
whic may affect their opeaons.
1)   On the basis of the expine of oher comtries, identfy routes ta could be
tendered and popose impl    on meau  to do so, with special emphasis
on sevice         , bidding documn  and procedures, and spevisio
mechaiss.
g)   Help Goverment implement comp ve tendeing of public tansport on at last
two routes in each of the poject cite.
G.        h      l     0       and             of Vedde
1.    Dbieefev. To inform the coned manags of public tspot compan  in Almaty,
Karaganda, and Shiroent of modern practices in devloped counties regarding the organization
and man       t of urban bus and dectric tansport maint   and rewommend how to
implent such pces in Kazalhsan.
2.     MainTasks
a)   O           of a program of vists and semia  for a group of about 25
tehnical mag  to two cities in devdoped countries. Ibe cities and the publc
anspot compan  to be vsited will be seeted for the quality of thdir
mnteae mngn and the Inwive soluiDons that they have  ccslly
implemented. At least one of the cities wil be of a size comparable to that of
.laty.  The study trp will last about two week  and iclude ded
presenations as well as field visits on the following topic:
(1)    Genr organization of aIn        ;
(d)    Work methods, hools, and equipment;
(i)    Plann of work, codiai  wt bus/trollebw  opeaton, lb
rules;,
(iv)    inenewve systems for managers and workers; control and suevsion;
(v)    P r t of spare pars and supplies, quality control, mement
of stocks;
(v)    Mnagement information system, cot acnting; and
(v)    T g.



- 52 -                           &A=eL4.2
Page 9 of 10
b)   After the rehn of the group to Kazakhstan, two experts among the main
contributors to the study trip will visit the public transport compnies. They will
help them formulate solutions to their most pressing problems, in partiular,
through the use of the modan pactices studied during the trip.
H.  _ _ _ _ _ ^ _ u                                               __
1bJectle. To inform concened managers of public transport compnies in Almaty,
Kaaganda, and Simknt of modern ptactik in developed countries rarding the organizaon
and management of urban bus and electric tansport opeations; fonrulaton of recommendations
on how to implement such patices in Kazakhstan.
2.    Main aliks
a)   Organizaion of a progm  of visits and seminars for a group of about 25
operains managers to te same cides as for the vehicle maintenance study trip.
This trip will also last about two weeks and include deailed reations, as well
as related field visits on the following topics:
(i)    Network design, planning of oprations, opfimizaton stdies
(li)    Implementation: adaptaton to specfic daily circumstances, field
supervisdon, control systems
(iii)   Incentive sstems for managers and drivers, control and supervision,
labor rules
(iv)    Management inaftion system
(v)    Traning
b)  After return of the group to Kazakhstan, two expr among the main contributors
to the study trip will visit the public transport companies. They will help them
formulate solutions to their most pressing problems, in particular through the use
of the modern paces studied during the trip.
L Inmrovement of Bndget Preparation and Cost Account   Procedures
1.    ObQbkg. To improve and coinputedze budget praraton and cost accoundng
procedures so that they can be used as effective ngemet and supervison tools.
2.    Main lisks
a) Review procedures currently used in the three cities for recurrent and capital
budget preparation and cost accounting. Identify their strengths and weaknesses.



- 53 -                           AM   z.2
Page 10 of 10
b)   Dis   with the transport companies the advantages and disadvantages of
procedures employed in various other (especially wsten) counties.
c)   On the basis of the compani' omments, develop improved procede that (i)
remain simple and adapted to the cument economic transition period, (ii) make
it easy to take account of productivity    oments, (iii) provide a basis for
subsequent development and sophitication, and (iv) are easy to computeir.
hese pcdurs should be well  rdinated with the prcedures prepared for
imrving the subsidy sstem. They should also be decentalized with budget and
cost analysis being prared at dpot level befe consoLidato.
d)   Develop a simple computer pgam  (for example on the basis of sp ts)
to facilitate budget praration and analysis and cost calculons. Procure and
insil computers so as to meet minimum needs.
e)   Formulate  comm o regding the annual schedule for prepation and
appv  of the compnies' budget and for preparation of reports on budget
implementation and on costs. Prepare standard reporting forms for the companies
managers and the city governments. The budget schedule and the retng
reqirements should be cnstent with the schedule and remports proposed for
impwoving the subsidy allocation ystem and the contatual reationships between
the companies and the city gverments.
J. GemiAL ma        t of CAmgphtc   Nm
i.    Ob . To prepare a prlimny               rion   plan for each of the project
companies and faomulate recomme     for its implemention.
2.     Malaaak
a)   Analyze the inmaion reqiement of the nmangers of the companies and of
the centr and local governments.
b) Define briefly the possible outputs, the data input required, the flow of data
between the praniutional units, and the trnsactons volumes.
c)   Discss the advantages and disadvanges of different data procsing ftameworks
for each company (including the degree of decentralition, the communication
methods, the standards, and the potential for use of existing software).
d)   Develop a preliminy computeizadon plan for each of the project companies
including recommendations on hardware and software and a cost estimate.
Recommend a minimum list of hardware and software that could purchased under
Word Bank loan financing.
e)   Format rc        ons for the stWd implementation of the     on
pheL



-54-                                      Am L 4.3
Estbiat Poject Cs
(USS wmiO
Comp_uu                        Lcal       Fori        Tot     Poat    Pmeat
oreig     TOW
About 300 new bum at $85,000 por bus
plu 10% for nia sc of sa  pa
and $S0 lcal dver and  cpon coau per bus         0.5        28.0        28.       98.2      67.2
Rehabtato of xstin autobsad NW oWHbs
(ncluding cast of spa pst, suppi, labor,
quipmet, zand facis)
Autobue (550 uni)                               0.4         63          6.7      94.0      15.
Uybumes  (400 unt)                              03          2.0         2.3      86.7       5.5
Tranig and Technica Asstanc
Trining                                                     0.9         0.9    100.0        2.1
Technial Assistae                               0.6         13          1.9      68.4       4.5
65 ma months of loca consultants
at US$2,50 per a mont (Inluin
al cos)                                       (0.2)                   (.2)
70 ma month of forin comuhan
at US$25,000 per man month (cWuding
aul cods)                                     (0.4)       (13)        (1.7)
Workshop Tools and Equpet and Orice  upnt         0          03          03      100.0       0.7
Tol 1a  Cost                                     1.8        38.8         40.6     95.6      9f.8
Price ContingencIee                              0.1         1.7         1.8      94.4       42
Totla Ptoje,ctost                                1.9        40.5         42.4     953       100.0
a/ Basd on price contency of 2.8% per yor.



BugnAoRTE
imU&mflwoI UwD
FY9                         FM9                             FM9                     FY91
303111    02 le   040OS 6  07 0609  1013t12  03 0203  04 05066  o1ao   10W.toIt12  G01050s  040as06  07 0 0   10It132
199"    399    399     199      99%    1995    1995    399      199     1996    196Km6           19
.-   -   -A -                                I*'   '   1-   -   -    - - --                              11 111 AI--
A. P                                                                           .mtd3smm
Am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
d  -
3Mn Tomb k& .Saa                     z 
-
9 M*_ d                      xx 
3  dW XX
Ib  Od3ds                                  x Xs
K Idvaldnsm                      _                         -       -m   -
be   w _w .
?_d  W~u~ .9x
=u .m A                                                                                                                  iAqu
_       p.                   m  xb                        .                                                                . I
No-s. xx .s . !m.
gmw.1__ 



to It2      atOw0 w 0405                 It    0oj t04 j 05 a            0a   to0It?a    et6 a0to9 toof                tot
1993     194    1I99         1994    11994      1995      1995      1"s  j  199        1996  X              19       1
Nsetdiie m      a                           m    x
p aata.bpmuuiu
Cailbr bidsafor aepaatu                     I-   xx
Dvaluiie& swad of 
al-iu af wSuWOM00
for pm poiat be
DdauakilAg                                      xx 3
ugibelufo ... A for
Du to   dbepcuedaIt
eaXdIb (ci   _                            mas
be F-'juaArdfei
DAMWo uvlaIW  UtV
.vdDoal9earfteeti
-hd-~
POh_
Awed d oeimaasfw 4WD                              _
puWs to be Iumzdaew
S#O^O~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3A     eeina"ftai _e              sx                                                                                                                 t



I      I3:
N  i2 
___________. I I Ii-1
_______II_______I__      11   11    1i.    [
j             |S0 a  t911~~~~~~~~~~~~
|            114           1-'1i11~~~~~~~3
_~~              __-_       _  
tt -LS



-58 -      hnn  4.A
0 B
'  lI
-        
_ 8E 
t 1'b' ll~~~
l _8 _~~
lf   U  i



-59 -43
Page I of 5
RLIC OF-KAZAKHSTAN
URBAN TRANSPE^ PRO.IEC
Details of Procurement
Table 1: Details of Procurement Ar nge               s
(USS mmion equivalent)
P1et Element                    ICB         Other         NBF         ToWal Cost
a) 300 now buses                          29.4                       0.5Q          29.9
(29.3)                                  (29.3)
b) Spar pat
For buses:
proprietary items                                5.0b                        5.0
(4.9)                       (4.9)
oter items                          Q.9          0.5o                        1.4
(0.9)       (0.5)                        (1.4)
For troely buss
proprery items                                   1.3b                        1.3
(1.2)                       (1.2)
odher items                         0.6                                      0.6
(0.6)                                    (0.6)
c) Tools and equpment                                  0.3'                         0.3
(0.3)                       (0.3)
2. Reait          eiL
a) Auto buses                                                        0.6'           0.6
b) Trolley buses                                                     0.4'           0.4
3. Constdtine SenX2es
a) Techical J4_  & Tmining                             2.10                         2.1
(2.1)                       (2.1)
b) Inspeci  of Busee                                   0.2                          0.2
(0.2)                       (0.2)
c) Seminsm and Study Tripd                                           0.6            0.6
TOTAL                                     30.9         9.4           2.1           42.4
(30.8)       (9.2)                      (40.0)
(A) Laaey swvie in kin (uch as labor and wokhop fciliies) provided by th project coepyies.
() Dir conacft for propfidaey hiems.
(c) Many di.
(4d) lawconl soping epected to be ia smb caotcb I  tan USS250,000 such.
(e) Servies prwued in accordace with Wodd Bank Guidelines for Usc of Conawltant.
(M Fsnced by EarpeanComuniy.



Table 2: Details of        r         Plan for Bankfa            Compone
Bidding     nvitation
Cost       Paxuremet   Documents   to Bid             Bid       CoAtaUct     Pacae
Componet               (USS milion)     Method       Complen    Isso     Subm_sion    Signimg    Comp<ti
Good
Buses (about 300)                    29.9        ICB          311194      4115194    6115194      8/15194      811519
Rdebilitation of buses                7.0
Spare pas and tirese                 1.5        ICB         4115194      611194     7115194      911194       1211195
Spare puts                           5.0        DC           4/1194      511194       NA         7/1194       121119S
0'
Spare ptuts                          O.S        IS           411W        S/11194     61/194      711194      7W119S
Rehabiliaton of trolleybuses          1.3
Sparc pants                          1.3        DC           411/94      5/11194      NA         711194       12/195
Tools and  qupmn  for                 0.3         IS          4/1/94      S11194     611194       711/94       71119S
reab iitan of buses and
troileybuses
Totdal for good                      38.5
x
en0



- 61 -                  Annex 4.5
Page 3 Qf 5
Ji,~~~~: I                    18iiw



- 62 -                           A=  4.5
Page 4 of 5
Details of Procurement of New Urban Buses
1.   The new buses will be procured by inteaional competitive bidding carried out in
accodance with World Bank Guidelines. Bidders (bus manufa s) will be carefuly screened
during post qualificadon to ensure that bids are accepted ady from firms that are well qualified,
financially and technically. They will be required to (i) submit with their bids evidence tha they
have, or have available, financial means to cover the cost of manufature and delivery of 20%
of the buses included in the contract; (i) fuish audited balance sheets and demonstrte the
soundness of their finamcial position including long-term profitability; (iii) provide with their bids
data on previous major sales to establish that they had manufatured 1,000 heavy duty buses
similar to those being offered and that they are in service, giving the name, address, and
nationality of each major purchaser (20 or more units). They will also provide the date atA
volume of each order, copies of test certificates of inspection issued by the purchae, and
description and general specifications of the buses sold; and (iv) submit deailed plans for
providing spare pars and maintenace support in Kazakhstan.
2.   Bidders which provide satisfactory information as described in paragph 1 above (as
confirmed by appropriate checks with previous purchasers from the firm) and offer buses which
fully meet the detailed technical specifications, will have their bid evaluated and compared on
a simplified life cost basis. Only the most important factors would be considered in the analysis
of bids: (i) the initial cost of the bus delivered to the city in Kazakhstn where they are to go
into service; (ii) the discounted esdmated cost of fuel for eight years of service at 75,000 km
per year; and (dii) the discounted esdmated cost of spare parts. The fuel cost will be estimated
on the basis of a simple and readily replicable test which would detmine the fuel conaumed
in driving 100 km at 60 kn per hour on a test track. The amount for fuel costs which would be
added to the delivered price of the buses would be determined from the following formula:
PF-IPx $7A%M  SCxCs
100
Where
PF =    Amount of fuel costs to be added to the delivered price of the vehicle
p  =      nternational pnce per liter of bus diesel fuel on the date of the opening of bids
C  =    Uters of fuel consumed in the test
F  =    Discount rate of 12% to give present value of a series of eight equal annual costs.
The bidders will carry out the fuel consumption test and submit certified test results with their
bids. The test results of the successful bider will be confirmed by tesing a limited number of
buses offered for delivery.
3.   An initil supply of spare pat will be purhased and delivered along with the buses. The
bidders would include in thdir bid a list of the spare parts that they recommend Should be
purchased with the buses; the cost would be an estimated 10% of the proe of the bues. Bidders



- 63-                            Annex 4.5
Page S of S
will also give a second lIst of spare prt representing the estmat  annual req ents for
eight year. This list will have to be backed up by adequate references. Bidders would be
requird to guaantee that they would funi  par on the second list at the same ut prices as
on the first list (adjusted in accodnce with an agreed upon pice index) for five yea  after
award of the contract The discounted cost of the eight year atimat  requirements would be
added to the biddes' offer for purposes of bid evaluation afe detailed check of the refences
given by the suppLiers



- 64 -                           An= 46
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJC
FAlmateci Disbumment Schedule
(US$ nillon)
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Cumulaive      Cumulative
and Semester          Disburments   Disbusements    Pe tage
1994
June 30, 1994                       0               0              0
1995
December 31, 1994                  10.5            10.5            26
June 30, 1995                      14.0            24.5            61
1996
December 31, 1995                  12.0            36.5            91
June30, 1996                       3.1             39.6            99
1997
December 31, 1996                  0.3             39.9            99
June 30, 1997                       0.1            40.0            100



- 65 -                            An
Page I of 2
URBAN TRASPORT DOE CT
Supervion Pia
1. The staff input indct.d below b in adtion to egular  pervion needs for the eview of
progress report, consultant reports, procurment actions, corespondence, etc. (estmated for
this project to require four staff weeks per year).
2. Most of the prect will be carried out or supevised by MOT and MOE in Almaty; the
majority of the World Bank staff spervion will therefore be carried out there. However, on
each of the two staff SUprvision missions per year at least one mission member will vst the
prqect companies in Karagnd and Shinkent, in addition to those in Almat.
World Bank Supervision Misons
Approximate         Euro  of Msn                                      Staff Input
FY94
April 1994       Prqject lunch workhop
Review of procurement arrmgements, schedule, and
acto  to date
Total for PY94                                          4
FY95
July 1994        Review of Vehicle Rehabilittion Plan
Initial supervision of technical assistance             8
December 1994   Review opertional performance
Review use of new buses and implementation of vehicle
rehabilitaton
Discussion of first conclusions of technical assistance
and recommended policy measures                         10



- 66 -                           Annex 4.
Page I of 2
Approxinat         Ea= mi                                           Staff lIput
Dates
Apil 1995       Review  implemenati of vehice   btaon
Review of progress in traing and tebnical assstance
and Implementation of the PSAP
Total for FY95                                        24
FY96
July 1995       Mid-term riew of project          on
Review implementation of vehicle rehabiitation
Review progress in taining and a technical assist
and impemenion of the PSAP                             6
Deember 1995   Review opeational performance
Review imlementation of vehide  iLit Ion
Review progress in ilemenan of e PSAP                  6
April 1996      Review impact of the PSAP on seor peformance          I
Total for FY96                                        18
FY97
December 1996   Fma Supeson Mission
Review progress in im tation  d te PSAP                i
Total for FY97                                                        I
Total Staff Ilput



-67-                             Amecx 4.
URBAN TRANSPORT ItRQlEC
Selected Documents and Data Avaiable In the Project File
1.    Analysis of issues and cotaints regarding the financial organizaon and management
of the public transport companies of Almaty, Karaganda, and Shiumkt, William Krause,
Consultant, July 1993.
2.    Back-to-Office Report on financial matts (Mission to Kazakhstan, July 5-1S, 1993),
William Krause, Consultant, July 1993.
3.    Analysis of issues and constraints regarding urban public transport opeaons and vehicle
maintenance (3 volumes):
a) City of Almaty
b) City of Karagnda
c) City of Shimkent
SOFRETU Consultants, April 1993.
4.    Evaluation of Needs for Bus and Trolleybus Spare Parts, Cities of Almaty, Karaganda,
and Shimkent, SOFR;TU Consultants, June 1993.
5.    Revised Draft Technical Specifications (for new buses), Booz, Allen, Hamilton
Consultants, October 1993.
6.    Selected data and legal documents received from the project compnies and the Ministry
of Transport, April and June 1993.
7.   Implementadon Program (decrees and orders of the central government, the govemments
of Almaty City and Karaganda and Shinmkent Oblasts, and the project ompanie),
January 1994.



IBRD 237WRI
'5SFEDERAETVIE N                                                                                                        ' /
Chapoye~~~~~ /               1~~~)  KUSTANAY
tW  j     rO              ;          vANKHSiANSKarAf             gx           To   /            R U S ~~~~~~~~~~KZAK~JASK IAY N
Ug) X A YRAO \ ( TURGAYS   AYAK |              '        S ARAGANDA  ATINSK 
r    )  A,KTYUBINSK  As  t      *         t          _           \   \                         /1R1U- -
_<1 /\4       *              J <\ DZHEZK                           5 DZHEZKAZGANA
Ar, I                                                                                              -
I                                                                                           *  NAllONAL ..  C ,fJ8ollssh|  ITALY-KURGrNPTt
USTAUSKAYA  j NA      KZYLOR   A\._  | CHIMKENT* DZHAMBUL                                                     O   C' R   _
sO.  ISLAMICREPUBUC                                 -       i~ ~ ~~~~~EPULI
I                                                                 0 SLECT--_ \   uxOTRS *Z >
X ~ ~ ~ ~~O -N -%, -                                                                              !                                                    BOUNDARIES/c C   ;,
o       is      20       30       400                                            AJJJ54' J
MOSS                  r                                                                             O>_. 
i \   0te   t   rO,{ <>*>^  I KAZAKHSTAN
g          XSS              \'\                 \                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAJIKISTAN  M -O t CA A
X   L . f   x                                     ;          /  )                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 MA CAPTAIS
40      \                 EILAI^  REPUBUC                                                                1)OsEoDns
0   ICO  2?0  3900  iOO  5$   600\f*G vt,2                                                                          ,-         .. 
O  lCO  200  300  00       e    -I                ;         ~~~~AFGHANISTAN   |       ;t 
7  ................... Rr w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



