Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3725 KZ
                              Loan Agreement
                         (Urban Transport Project)
                                  between
                          REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 8, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3725 KZ
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the
"Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
"Bank") (jointly the "parties").
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the National Agency for
Foreign Investment within the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Almaty City
Administration, Karaganda Oblast Administration, Shimkent Oblast
Administration, Almaty Production Association of Passenger Autotransport,
Almaty Tramway-Trolleybus Department, Karaganda Production Association of
Passenger Transport, and Shimkent Production Association of Passenger
Transport, all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Almaty City
Administration, Karaganda Oblast Administration, Shimkent Oblast
Administration, Almaty Production Association of Passenger Autotransport,
Almaty Tramway-Trolleybus Department, Karaganda Production Association of
Passenger Transport, and Shimkent Production Association of Passenger
Transport the goods and services financed by the Loan, on terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Implementation Program" means the implementation program,
satisfactory to the Bank, adopted through decrees, resolutions and orders
by the Borrower, the Local Governments, and the Project Companies pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time in agreement with the Bank;
      (b)   "Local Governments" means Almaty City Administration, Karaganda
Oblast Administration, and Shimkent Oblast Administration;
      (c)   "Ministry of Transport" means the Borrower's Ministry of
Transport;
      (d)   "PIU" means the project implementation unit established by the
Borrower within the National Agency for Foreign Investment, the Borrower's
Ministry of Economy;
      (e)   "Project Companies" means the Almaty Production Association of
Passenger Autotransport, Almaty Tramway-Trolleybus Department, Karaganda
Production Association of Passenger Transport, and Shimkent Production
Association of Passenger Transport;
      (f)   "PSAP" means the Policy Statement and Action Plan for Improving
Public Transport Service in Almaty, Karaganda, and Shimkent, issued by the
Government of Kazakhstan and by the Almaty City Administration, Karaganda
Oblast Administration, and Shimkent Oblast Administration; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
forty million dollars ($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
Page  3
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
Page  4
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project, in accordance with the PSAP,
primarily through the Ministry of Transport, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the goods and services financed by the
Loan available to the Local Governments and the Project Companies under an
implementation program (the "Implementation Program") adopted by the
Borrower, the Local Governments, and the Project Companies, under terms and
conditions which have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include
provisions governing inter alia:
            (i)   compliance with and implementation of the PSAP;
          (ii)    the use of goods and services financed by the Loan;
         (iii)    implementation of the Project;
          (iv)    maintenance of facilities, goods and equipment;
           (v)    rehabilitation of buses and trolleybuses;
          (vi)    Project Companies' budgets, records, and  accounts;
         (vii)    levels of transport fares;
        (viii)    collection procedures; and
          (ix)    an action plan for reducing the shortage of drivers (with
                  respect to Almaty).
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation
Program in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Implementation Program or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the PIU until the completion
of the Project and ensure that the PIU functions at all times in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and is at all times headed by a
coordinator with qualifications, terms of reference and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers and by consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, advising on the following matters: procurement and
disbursements.
                                ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and the Borrower shall
cause the Project Companies to maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their operations and
financial conditions.
      (b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause the Project Companies to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                  Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
          (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year: (A) certified copies of the Project Companies'
                  financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B)
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
         (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall and shall cause the Project Companies to:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
          (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Project Companies not to incur any debt unless the
net revenues, in real terms, of the Project Companies for the fiscal year
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be at least two times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements, in real terms, of the Project Companies for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt of the Project Companies, including the debt to be
incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Project
Page  6
                  Companies maturing by its terms more than one year after
                  the date on which it is originally incurred.
          (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                  contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                  such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
                  on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                  and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                  agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.
         (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations adjusted to take account of Project
                        Companies prices in effect at the time of the
                        incurrence of debt even though they were not in
                        effect during the twelve-month period to which such
                        revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to  operations
                        including administration,  adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                        provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                        operating charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.
          (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        (A) above.
           (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
                  of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
          (vi)    The term "in real terms" means the amounts adjusted in
                  accordance with the rate of inflation, as measured by the
                  consumer price index issued by the Kazakhstan State
                  Committee of Statistics, or any other adjustment index
                  satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
                  at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
                  such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
                  to the Bank.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, by the time one half or more of the
new buses to be financed under the Loan are put into operation by the
Project Companies, cause the Local Government or the Project Companies, as
appropriate, to set and implement basic and unadjusted transport fares at
a level not less than 25 percent of the operating cost of transport per
passenger. The term "operating costs of transport per passenger" means the
expenses referred to in Section 4.02 (b)(iii)(B) of this Agreement, incurred
by the Project Companies during the preceding six months, and adjusted for
inflation, divided by the total number of passengers carried by the Project
Companies during the same six months. The term "basic and unadjusted
transport fares" means the fare paid by a passenger who has not qualified
for any reduction in or exemption from transport fares.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  7
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A Local Government or a Project Company shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Implementation Program.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have occurred which shall make
it improbable that a Local Government or a Project Company will be able to
perform its obligations under the Implementation Program.
      (c)   The Borrower, a Local Government, or any other authority shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of a Project
Company or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall be given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall
occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: (a) that the PIU has been
established with functions, procedures, and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) that the Implementation Program has been approved, in terms
satisfactory to the Bank, by the Borrower, the Local Governments, and the
Project Companies.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that the Implementation Program has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, the Local Governments,
and the Project Companies, and is legally binding upon the Borrower, the
Local Governments, and the Project Companies in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            97 Ablai-Khan Avenue
            Almaty, 480091 Kazakhstan
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
Page  8
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                        By /s/ Almaz N. Khamzaev
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                        Acting Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods                    36,100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Consultants'              2,200,000        100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Unallocated               1,700,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   40,000,000
                              ==========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
Page  9
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which the goods and services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures."
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1994.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) help restore public transport
capacity in the cities of Almaty, Karaganda, and Shimkent to adequate levels
of service quality; and (ii) design and implement key improvements in
policies and organizations, described, inter alia, in the PSAP, in the urban
public transport sector of Almaty, Karaganda, and Shimkent.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   New Buses
    The strengthening of urban transport service in Almaty, Karaganda, and
Shimkent through the purchase of approximately three hundred (300) new
standard urban buses with one hundred to one hundred twenty (100-120)
passenger capacity to be utilized by the Project Companies.
Part B:   Rehabilitation of Buses and Trolleybuses
    The strengthening of urban transport service in Almaty, Karaganda, and
Shimkent through the rehabilitation by the Project Companies of
approximately five hundred fifty (550) existing buses and four hundred (400)
existing trolleybuses (including the
provision of necessary spare parts and supplies) of the Project Companies.
Part C:   Equipment
    The strengthening of urban transport service in Almaty, Karaganda, and
Shimkent through the provision of a limited quantity of high priority
workshop and office equipment to the Project Companies, the Borrower, and
the Local Government.
Part D:   Training and Technical Assistance
    The provision of training and technical assistance, in accordance with
detailed implementation programs acceptable to the Bank to: (i) the Borrower
and Local Governments in implementation the PSAP; (ii) the Project Companies
in the development of adequate capabilities in vehicle maintenance,
operation, and finance; and (iii) the Borrower and Local Governments in
Project implementation, including the provision of procurement expertise to
the PIU and inspection of new buses and key spare parts.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
Page  10
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
    beginning September 15, 1999
    through September 15, 2010           1,665,000
And on March 15, 2011                    1,705,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
Page  11
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Items or groups of items for spare parts and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.        Subject to prior approval by the Bank, items or groups of items
for spare parts which can only be provided by the original manufacturer of
the equipment in which the spare parts are to be installed, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $6,300,000, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  12
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower to carry out Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)      the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)      the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)      the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)      For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b) (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
             furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
             Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
        (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
             shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
             required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
             payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
             requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
             on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
             deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
             shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
             documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
             Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
Page  13
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)     if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
