Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NO. 2532-BO
Administration Agreement
for the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the 
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK
in respect of the Second Social Investment Fund Project
in the
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Dated December 16, 1993
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NO. 2532-BO
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1993, between the GOVERNMENT 
OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK (Denmark) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), to provide for the 
administration by the Association of certain funds to be made available by 
Denmark to the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Recipient).
WHEREAS: (A) Denmark wishes to make available to the Recipient a 
grant (the Grant) in an amount of thirty million Danish Kroner (DKr. 30,000,000) 
to further assist in the financing of the Second Social Investment Fund Project 
(the Project); and
WHEREAS: (B) the Association, at the request of Denmark, has agreed to 
administer the Grant in conjunction with the Credit made by the Association to 
the Recipient for the Project under the Development Credit Agreement entered 
into between Bolivia and the Association on December 8, 1993 (hereinafter 
referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) upon the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Kroner" and "DKr." means the currency of the Kingdom of 
Denmark;
(b)
"General Conditions" means the General Conditions applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 1, 1985; and
(c)
"Trust Account" means the Association’s Account "T" with 
Danmarks Nationalbank in Denmark to which the amount of the Grant shall be 
credited.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. For the purposes of this Agreement, Denmark shall:
Page  3
(a)
promptly deposit the initial installment of DKr. 10,000,000 into the 
Trust Account. When making such deposit, Denmark shall: (i) instruct Danmarks 
Nationalbank to advise the Association’s Cash Management Department; (A) as 
to the amount received; (B) that it is from Denmark for the Grant Agreement; 
and (C) the date of such deposit; and (ii) when requesting Danmarks 
Nationalbank to pay, arrange to fax a copy of the request to the Office of the 
Trust Funds Administrator in the Association utilizing Fax Number 
202-477-3056; and
(b) 
deposit the balance of DKr. 10,000,000 for calendar year 1994 and 
DKr. 10,000,000 for calendar year 1995 into the Trust Account conditional upon 
receipt by Denmark from the Association of a request for deposit along with an 
unaudited summary financial statement covering the receipt and expenditures 
relating to the initial installment referred to in (a) above.
The funds in the Trust Account attributable to the Grant may be 
comingled with other trust fund assets maintained in the Trust Account and shall 
be freely exchangeable by the Association with other currencies in order to 
facilitate their disbursement.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust Account such 
amounts attributable to the Grant Agreement as shall from time to time be 
needed to meet the costs of goods and services financed or to be financed 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement. Such disbursements shall be effected on the 
basis of applications for withdrawals for eligible expenditures submitted by the 
Recipient in accordance with the Association’s normal disbursement procedures 
for withdrawal and disbursement of proceeds of credits or project preparation 
advances made by the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in defraying the cost of administration and 
other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, the 
Association may invest and reinvest the funds in the Trust Account attributable 
to the Grant, pending their disbursement to the Recipient, and may retain for its 
own account the income from any such investment or reinvestment in an amount 
equal to two percent of the amounts deposited by Denmark under this 
Agreement. The balance of the income from any such investment or 
reinvestment shall be repaid to Denmark upon the termination of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Administration of the Grant
Page  4
Section 3.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, 
shall enter into a Grant Agreement and such other agreements with the 
Recipient, as it may deem appropriate but consistent with the terms and 
conditions of the Development Credit Agreement (excluding the debt service 
provisions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in financing the Project. Such 
agreement or agreements with the Recipient shall, inter alia, provide that the 
proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn by the Recipient to finance the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and otherwise 
eligible for financing under the Grant Agreement, and that the amounts to be 
withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other charges. A copy 
of each such grant agreement or agreements shall be furnished to Denmark.
Section 3.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, 
shall have the sole responsibility for supervision of the Project as set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. Denmark and the Association shall consult from time to time, 
at their mutual request, on all matters arising out of this Administration 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Association shall keep Denmark informed of the 
progress in the Project. To that end, the Association shall furnish to Denmark 
biannual progress reports relating thereto.
Section 3.05. The administration and enforcement of the provisions of the 
Grant Agreement and of any other agreement entered into between the Recipient 
and the Association for the purposes of this Administration Agreement shall be 
handled solely by the Association and the Association specifically reserves the 
right, at its discretion and without notice to Denmark, to exercise, refrain from 
exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or agreements or to modify 
any provision thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals of funds under such agreement or 
agreements, the Association shall inform Denmark and afford Denmark a 
reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 3.06. The Association shall inform Denmark of any proposed 
significant modification to the Development Credit Agreement and the Grant 
Agreement and shall afford Denmark a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Association before effecting any such modification.
Section 3.07. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge 
of its functions under this Administration Agreement as it exercises with respect 
to the administration and management of its own affairs and shall have not 
Page  5
further responsibility to Denmark in respect thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Association shall maintain separate records and ledger 
accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account. At the completion of each 
fiscal year of the Association during which any funds remain in the Trust 
Account that are attributable to the Grant, the Association shall prepare a 
financial statement in Kroner, with respect to the Grant and furnish a copy to 
Denmark.
Section 4.02. The Association shall cause the records and accounts with 
respect to the Grant to be audited by the Association’s external auditors 
promptly after completion of the Project and shall furnish the report of such 
audit by said auditors to Denmark. The Association shall pay the cost of such 
audit.
Section 4.03. The Association shall provide quarterly unaudited financial 
statements to Denmark.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Administration Agreement shall become effective as of 
the date first above written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall 
continue in effect until all disbursements have been made from the Trust 
Account to the Recipient and any cancelled portion of the Grant shall have 
returned to Denmark.
Section 5.02. If, at any time, it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Administration Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be 
carried out, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of 
such party after ninety (90) days’ written notice to that effect.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Administration Agreement, unless 
the parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or provision thereof 
entered into by the Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, shall be 
assigned to Denmark which shall accept such assignment and any funds or other 
property of Denmark held hereunder by the Association shall be returned to 
Denmark, and the Association’s administration hereunder shall be considered 
terminated.
Page  6
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of this Administration 
Agreement, and in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date, the 
Association shall furnish to Denmark a final report and a financial statement on 
the Trust Account, together with an opinion of the Association’s external 
auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. DANIDA is designated representative of Denmark for all 
purposes of this Administration Agreement.
Section 6.02. This Administration Agreement may be amended only by 
written agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Administration Agreement, and any agreement between the 
parties contemplated by this Administration Agreement, shall be in writing. 
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it 
shall be delivered by hand, mail, telegram, cable or telex to the party to which it 
is required or permitted to be given, or made at such party’s address hereinafter 
specified, or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For Denmark:
Danish International Development Authority
Asiatisk Plads 2
DK-1448 Copenhagen K
Denmark
Cable address:
Telex:
DANIDA 
   31292 etr dk
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA)
   64145 (WUI) or
               82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names as of the day and year first above written.
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK
By /s/ Jorgen Munk
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Authorized Representative
