Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2532 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 8, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2532 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund for International 
Development (the OPEC Fund) a loan in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in 
the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC 
Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Civil Service Reform Program" means the Borrower's program designed to 
improve its public administration as described in the Borrower's document entitled 
Programa de Reforma Administrativa en Bolivia dated August 1992;
(b)
"Evaluation Manual" means the manual for appraisal of Investment 
Subprojects (as defined below) adopted by SIF (as defined below) on March 31, 1992 and 
to be modified by SIF pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
"Investment Subproject" means a subproject in health (excluding those for 
the construction of health posts until such time as the Association shall be satisfied 
that the Borrower has commenced delivering health services in all the health posts 
already financed by SIF), water supply or sanitation, education and institutional 
support for Requesting Entities which is eligible for financing by SIF (as defined 
below) in accordance with the provisions of the Evaluation Manual;
(d)
"Operations Manual" means the manual setting forth the procedures for 
administering Investment Subprojects, adopted by SIF (as defined below) on August 31, 
1992;
(e)
"Prior Development Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit 
Agreement for Credit Number 2127-BO (Social Investment Fund Project) entered into 
between the Borrower and the Association on May 7, 1990, as amended;
(f)
"Requesting Entities" means the governmental or non-governmental entities 
involved in health, water supply or sanitation or education activities, and/or the 
governmental or non-governmental entities which meet the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Evaluation Manual;
(g)
"SIF" or "Social Investment Fund" means the Social Investment Fund (Fondo 
de Inversion Social), established by the President of the Republic of Bolivia as a 
public entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decreto Supremo No. 22407 of 
January 11, 1990 as amended by Decreto Supremo No. 22452 of March 8, 1990, published 
in the Official Gazette on March 26, 1990;
(h)
"SIF Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such subsidiary 
agreement;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between SIF 
and a Requesting Entity and, where applicable, a contractor or supplier, for purposes 
of carrying out an Investment Subproject, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subproject Agreement; and
(k)
"Supervision Manual" means the manual for the monitoring and supervision 
of Investment Subprojects adopted by SIF on August 31, 1992.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
Page  3
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2003 and ending April 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2013 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
Section 2.09. The Executive Director of SIF or the person or persons he may 
designate in writing, are designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project, through SIF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, economic and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project;
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SIF under 
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SIF, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include 
SIF's obligation to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement and the Operations Manual;
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SIF Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof; and
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with performance and implementation 
indicators acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by SIF.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Investment Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, 
approved, carried out and monitored in accordance with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Evaluation Manual, the Operations Manual and the Supervision 
Manual.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than one month before each of the reviews referred to in 
paragraph (b) below, furnish to the Association: (i) progress reports on the 
Investment Subprojects approved by SIF, source of financing, procurement reviews 
status of processing or execution, and key performance and implementation indicators; 
(ii) in the event SIF is considering the financing of additional activities in the 
health, water supply or sanitation, and education sectors, information on the 
modifications to the Evaluation Manual, the Supervision Manual and the Operations 
Manual proposed to be made during the following six months so as to authorize the 
financing of such activities; and (iii) for its approval, the operating plans for each 
part of the Project proposed to be carried out during the following six months, 
including as a part thereof the corresponding budgets and the related Project 
implementation and performance indicators and specifying the extent of compliance with 
the operating plans submitted the prior semester, and implemented during that 
semester;
(b)
not later than April 30 and October 31 each year, review with the 
Association its progress in the implementation of the Project, including in 
Page  5
particular, procurement, the consistency of the Investment Subprojects with its sector 
strategies and priorities, the budget allocations referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement, and the progress made in meeting the performance and implementation 
indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(c)
not later than April 30, 1995 review with the Association, in addition to 
the matters referred to in paragraph (b) hereof: (i) the effectiveness of SIF in 
targeting the financing of Investment Subprojects to the economically disadvantaged 
groups; (ii) the impact of its financing in alleviating poverty; (iii) the 
administrative efficiency and financial soundness of SIF's operations; (iv) the 
prospects for SIF's continued operations; (v) the quality and level of SIF's 
coordination with ministries related to its operations and with other agencies 
providing financing for subprojects; (vi) the progress made by the Borrower in 
strengthening sector policies, strategies and social sector ministries; and (vii) 
progress made by the Borrower and/or SIF in obtaining funds for the financing of SIF 
such subprojects and SIFs operations; and
(d)
if the results of any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (b) and 
(c) hereof are not satisfactory to the Association: (i) not later than sixty days 
after the respective review, furnish to the Association an action plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, with the remedial actions necessary to achieve the objectives of 
the Project and to meet the performance and implementation indicators referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; and (ii) take promptly, all remedial actions 
included in such action plan.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to its obligations under the General Conditions 
and under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
allocate in its annual budget for SIF, and make available promptly as 
needed, for the calendar years 1994 through 1997, the following minimum amounts, as 
counterpart funds for the financing of the Project:
(i)
$2,547,000 equivalent for calendar year 1994;
 
(ii)
$3,218,000 equivalent for calendar year 1995;
 
(iii)
$3,890,000 equivalent for calendar year 1996; and
 
(iv)
$4,561,000 equivalent for calendar year 1997;
 
(b)
advance, from the amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and no later than the first day of each quarter, amounts sufficient to cover the 
counterpart funding requirements for the Project during such quarter; and
(c)
(i) maintain in respect of SIF: (A) an organizational structure 
satisfactory to the Association; and (B) key personnel positions detailed in such 
organizational structure filled with personnel who shall have experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association; and (ii) consult with the Association 
with respect to any changes to SIF organizational structure and any replacement of key 
personnel positions prior to any such change or replacement. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1994 furnish to 
the Association for its comments its recommendations from the studies referred to in 
Part B.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter carry out such 
recommendations modified as needed to take into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, in the event the Civil Service Reform Program 
is implemented, include SIF's personnel in the initial phase of such program.
Section 3.09. The Prior Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended by 
incorporating thereto the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement and by deleting therefrom items (A) through (D) of subparagraph 3 (e) and 
paragraph 4 of Part II of Schedule 6 to said Prior Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause SIF to maintain records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause SIF to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or shall cause SIF to maintain in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or shall cause SIF to retain until at least one year after 
the Association has received the audit for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Supreme Decree No. 22407 of January 11, 1990 or Supreme Decree No. 22452 
of March 8, 1990 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially and adversely the ability of SIF to perform any of its obligations under 
the SIF Subsidiary Agreement or under any Subproject Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SIF, or for the suspension of 
its operations;
(c)
the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1993, or such later date as the Association may agree, provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes, to 
the satisfaction of the Association, that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources, on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under the OPEC Fund Loan 
Agreement;
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Page  7
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof; and
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(e)
the Operations Manual or the Evaluation Manual or the Supervision Manual 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the ability of SIF to carry 
out the Project or to perform its obligations under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement; and
(f)
SIF shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the SIF 
Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the SIF Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and SIF;
(b)
the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and the OPEC Fund; and
(c)
the Evaluation Manual has been modified by SIF so as to incorporate 
criteria, satisfactory to the Association, for the evaluation of Investment 
Subprojects for water supply and sanitation, and for the carrying out of environmental 
impact assessments for relevant Investment Subprojects.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the SIF Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and SIF in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Evaluation Manual has been duly modified by SIF.
 
Section 6.03. The date March 8, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01, 3.04, 3.05, 
3.06 (c) and 3.08 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which 
this Agreement shall terminate or on the date 10 years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Economic Development and the Secretary of Finance of the Borrower are 
severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
   and/or Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda y Desarrollo Economico
Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Cajon Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Boliva
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes de la Riva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Page  9
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Investment                                90% of amounts
      Subprojects:                              disbursed by
                                                SIF for each
      (a)  for health          7,130,000        Investment
                                                Subproject for
      (b)  for water           8,120,000        which a Sub-
           supply and                           project Agree-
           sanitation                           ment has been
                                                signed on or
      (c)  for education       7,910,000        before December
                                                31, 1995
      (d)  for institu-          710,000
           tional support
           to Requesting
           Entities
(2)   Consultants'               565,000        100%
      Services
(3)   Training                   142,000
(4)   Goods under                570,000        100% of foreign
      Part B of the                             expenditures,
      Project                                   100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(5)   Salaries and
      Travel costs
      of SIF's staff:
      (a)  for payments        1,280,000        75%
           made after
           December 31,
           1993 and on
           or before
           December 31,
           1994
      (b)  for payments          780,000        50%
           made after
           December 31,
           1994 and on or
           before
           December 31,
           1995
      (c)  for payments          360,000        25%
           made after
           December 31,
           1995 and on or
           before
Page  10
           December 31,
           1996
(6)   Unallocated                733,000
           TOTAL              28,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Salaries and Travel costs of SIF's Staff" means the salaries of 
all professionals and technicians of SIF (other than its Executive Director) as listed 
in the letter sent by the Borrower to the Association on June 1, 1993 and the travel 
costs of such staff associated with the administration of Investment Subprojects.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
payments made under any Investment Subproject costing more than the 
equivalent of $250,000 unless the Association shall have approved the respective 
Investment Subproject.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the coverage and quality of 
the delivery of basic services in the health, education, water supply and sanitation 
sectors targeting primarily the rural poor; and (b) to strengthen the institutional 
capacity of SIF.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
SIF
 
Carrying out of Investment Subprojects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening of SIF
 
Strengthening of SIF's capabilities in financial planning and management, and 
the processing, appraisal, supervision, poverty targeting and monitoring of Investment 
Subprojects through, inter alia:
(a)
the carrying out of studies: (i) to identify measures that need to be 
taken by SIF to improve the efficiency of its operations including an increased 
decentralization; and (ii) to develop a medium- and long-term financial plan for SIF 
to identify and correct imbalances in its resource use, guide its operational 
decisions, and ensure its sustainability;
(b)
the training of SIF's staff;
 
(c)
the revision of the Evaluation Manual so as to incorporate in the poverty 
targeting methodology thereof, data from the 1992 census of the Bolivian population;
(d)
the improvement of SIF's information systems including those related to 
procurement and monitoring and evaluation; and
(e)
the provision and utilization of equipment required therefor.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines):
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract award is delayed beyond 
the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased 
for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Computer equipment and related software up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$120,000 may be procured under contracts awarded through direct contracting in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $10,920,000 may, and works shall, be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, and 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,100,000 for goods and $6,800,000 for works, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part A.1 hereof; (ii) all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more; and (iii) the first three contracts for works and for goods procured each year 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall 
use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
Page  13
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in therespective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
