Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10068
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1010.CM)
NOVEMBER 15, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units - FCFA
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
1980  226   FCFA  =      US$1.00
1981  287   FCFA  -      US$1.00
1922  33E   FCFA  -      US$1.00
1983  417   FCFA  -      US$1.00
1984  480   FCFA  =      US$1.00
1985  378   FCFA  =      US$1.00
1986  323   FCFA         US$1.00
1987  267   FCFA  -      US$1.00
1988  303   FCFA  -      US$1.00
1989  289   FCFA  =      US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR         =     Economic Rate of Return
FONADER           Fonds National de D6veloppement Rural
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
KFW                Federal Republic of Germany
MINEL             Ministere de I'Elevage et des Industries Animates
MINEPIA            Minist6re de L'Elevage, des P&ches et des Industries
Animales
PCR               Project Completion Report
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
SAR         -     Staff Appraisal Report
SEDA              Soci6t6 D'Etudes pour le Deveoppement de L'Afrique
SODEPA             Soci6t6 de Developpement et d'Exploitation Animale
FISCAL YEAR OF TH_ BORROWER
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THf W ORlD SANK
Washington, DC. 20433
U.S.A.
O0laC Of DfuF,KtcW4GnV&I
O9w.aX  hlJtK
November 15, 1991
MEMORAND_M TO THE EXECUTTVE nl"iECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Republic of Cameroon
Second Livestock Development Proiect (Credit 1010-CM)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Republic of Cameroon - Second Livestock
Development Project (Credit 1010-CM)", prepared by Africa Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1010-CM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Fage No.
PREFACE        . .             .  . ... . . . ..                         1
EVALUATIONSUMMARY  .   ..... . . . . .   .  .  .  .  *0.* *  .  . .ii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .   . . .              1
A.   Project Identity        . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.   Background   . . . .   . . . . . . .   . .1
C.   Project Objectives and Description . . . . .             2
D.   Project Design and Organization  . . . . . .             3
E.   Project Implementation   . . . I . . . . . .             4
P.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
G.   Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . .            11
H.   Bank's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . .            12
I.   Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . .            12
J.   Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
K.   Project Relation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
L.   Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . .            13
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . .             14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . .            22
ANNEX:  Response to the Borrower's Perspective to the Project
Completion Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           35
MAP. IBRD 14521R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be Lused by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1010-CM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Livestock Development Project in Cameroon, for which Credit 1010-CM in the
amount of US$16 million equivalent was approv6d on April 22, 1980. The Credit
was closed on December 31, 1988, four years behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was in February, 1989.
The Federal Republic of Germany (KFW) cofinanced the Project with
a grant of US$1.0 million and a credit of US$8.0 million on terms similar to
IDA.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agricultural
Division of the Technical Department of the Africa Region and Part II was
provided by the Borrower. The KFW was requested to comment on the PCR and we
have not received any comments. The PCR is based inter alia on the Staff
Appraisal Report, credit and project agreements, supervision reports, Bank
correspondence files and interview with staff involved in project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC 0. CAMEROOF
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1010-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          Despite its la:ge livestock herd, Cameroon was in the 1960s
importing about 10,000 metric tons of meat annually. This was about 13% of its
total consumption, but import of meat was projected to increase to 25,000 tons
by 1985. The main reasons for the meat shortage were the low productivity of
the national herd and constraints i.n the marketing system. In the early 19708,
Government had prepared a long term strategy, the "Plan Viande", for the
development of the livestock sub-sector. The main objective of this project
was to continue the implementation of the "Meat Plan" begun under the First
Livestock Development Project financed by the Bank. Specifically, the Project
aimed at: (a) increasing meat production and the income of livestock
producers; (b) freeing more land from tsetse infestation; and (c)
strengthening the implementation capacity of government agencies promoting
livestock development and (d) completing construction of the Yaound6 and
Douala slaughterhouses begun under the first project. Emphasis would be placed
on promoting smallholder production of livestock, espeL>:l1y pig and poultry.
(paras 1,4).
Implementation
2.          Start-up of the Project was delayed by 9 months due to problems
ins (a) preparing the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and the
credit agency and submitting the required legal opinion to the Bank; and (b)
recruitment of technical assistance. Effectiveness of the cofinancing credit
from KFW was delayed for more than three years, which constrained the quality
of credit administration and supervision. Lack of counterpart funds for the
veterinary and extension components further delayed project implementation.
Consequently, the Closing Date for the Project was postponed four times and
the Project closed in December 1988 (paras 11-12).
Results
3.          The Project achieved most of its objectives.  However, it failed
in making significant progress in increasing meat production in state owned
and private ranches on a sustainable basis and in strengthening the
institutional capacity of government agencies in promoting livestock
development in the country. Four of the seven project components were
successfully completed. These were: (a) strengthening of SODEPA; (b) the



- iv -
tsetse eradication campaign, (c) training staff; and (d) preparing a successor
project (para 17).
4.          The tsetse eradication campaign of this and the previous project
freed 1.3 million ha. as intended. It was responsive to the environmental
impact of the insecticides used. Government commissioned consultants to study
the environmental impact and discontinued the use of Ensodil and Dieldrin on
their advice. It started experimenting with alternative low cost and less
damaging methods of tsetse control using traps and attractants (para 37).
5.          SODEPA managed to complete the two slaughterhouses started in
Yaound6 and Douala under the first project. The number of cattle slaughtered
per d.ay is 260 and 180 for Yaound6 and Douala respectively. This surpasses
the expectationa of the SAR by 73 and 20 percent, respectively. Cameroonian
staff were trained in sustainably operating them without financial loss. On
the other hand it did not establish the 12 improved private butcheries in
Yaound6 and Douala. However, it opened two butcheries, which it had to close
as they were making eubstantial financial losses. Unacceptably low technical
and financial results continued to plague the three parastatal ranches
operated by SODEPA until the fifth year of the project's seven year life due
to lack of proper management. SODEPA failed to effectively carry out a task
delegated to it, i.e. rendering extension services to cattle ranchers in the
areas where it operated cattle ranches (paras 30-35).
6.          The credit agency, FONADER, gave loans to 1079 producers (83% of
that foreseen in the SAR). The monetary value of the loans surpassed that
allocated in the SAR by 23%. However, this component did not succeed in
achieving the expected increase in meat production and producers income as the
institutional capacity to supervise and support smallholders with extension,
veterinary and supervised credit services were not sufficiently developed.
The overall recovery rate of the credit that was due for repayment (about US$
2.3 million) as at June 30, 1986 was 70%. However, this varied from province
to province. The lowest credit recovery was in Adamoua (61%) followed by West
(70Z) and North-west provinces (75%). The global recovery rate may
deteriorate substantially as FONADER was dissolved and replaced by an
agricultural development bank after a two year hiatus (paras 20-29).
7.          Strengthening of MINEL's veterinary field services to ensure
adequate disease prevention and control was not effectively carried out. The
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established. However, it failed to
coordinate project implementation. It did not set up any management
information system that could enable MINEL to effectively monitor and evaluate
the diverse activities of the Project and it did not develop institutional
capacity to undertake such coordination for the successor project. It did not
prepare the Project Completion Report as stated in the SAR ard the Credit
Agreement (para 38).
8.          Calculating the ERR was not attempted as there is no sufficient
data on the benefits and costs of livestock production by the private sector
project beneficiaries. The ERR estimated in the SAR was 18%. Considering the
poor performance in the credit an d livestock services components which were
reflected in marginal impact on productivity, the continued unviability of the



-v -
parastatal ranches, and the uncertainty with respect to use of the tsetse
cleared areas the ERR is likely to be less than 10%.
Sustainabilitv
9.          Although 10% of the tsetse cleared area (about 150,000 ha.) was
reinfested and had to be resprayed, the tsetse eradication program was
sustainable, especially with the utilization of less costly and less
environmentally hazardous methods of tsetse control introduced under the
Project. Sufficient Camerooniane wero trained to continue the progrsn on a
sound footing. The two slaughterhouses can be sustainable, especially if
slaughter fees are charged in accordance with prevailing economic
circumstances. The experience with the management of the three ranches and the
two slaughterhouseb by SODEPA showed that they could not be financially viable
under paras.atal management. Efforts are being made under the successor
project to privatize them. The livestock ministry did not develop its
capacity (a) to effectively extend veterinary and extension services; and (b)
to supervise and monitor development projecti under its wing, a problem still
plaguing the successor project (paras 39-41).
Performance of IDA. the Consultants, and Government Agencies
10.         Bank advice contributed significantly to improvements in project
design and implementation. Close supervision was maintained throughout
project implementation. Bank staff were instrumental in discontinuing the use
of chemicals toxic to non target fauna in the tsetse eradication campaign.
The low performance of SODEPA ranches, the poor supervision of the credit
program and the inadequate support of extension and veterinary services to
project beneficiaries were brought to the attention of Government. Bank staff
could have expedited the RFW credit by putting pressure on both Governments.
The objection of Moslem butchers to stunning animals with pistols prior to
slaughter could have been handled with better diplomacy (paras. 42-44).
11.         The performance of Government agencies involved in the execution
of the projects was variable. The Tsetse Eradication Unit executed its
program extremely well. It trained its staff properly to take over the
functions of the technical assistance. Although the SODEPA management was
trying its best to implement the Project, it was constrained by its public
nature and structure. While its physical achievements improved substantially
towards the end of the Project, it could not be financially viable due to its
high overhead costs and overstaffing in its headquarters. FONADER was unable
to institute a carefully scrutinized and adequately supervised credit program.
Consequently, a substantial part of the credit for ranching operations were
utilized for other purposes and credit recovery became a difficult task.
MINEL failed to support its own veterinary and extension program and to
supervise the Project Coordinating Unit in discharging its functions with
adverse effects on the overall efficiency of project implementation. In
general, Government was supportive of the Project despite delays in releasing
counterpart funds and processing procurement of goods and services (paras 46-
47).



- vi -
12,         The performance of most of the technical assistance consultants
was satisfactory (para 49).
Overall Assessment
13.         On balance, the project must be rated as unsatisfactory.
Findings and Lessons
14.         The Project demonstrated that a large area of tsetse infested land
can be freed and maintained at reasonable cost. It also showed that the lack
of participation of the beneficiaries in the planning and implementation of
tsetse eradication became a constraint in safeguarding tsetse freed areas from
reinfestation. The Project showed that a good potential exists for the
development of small livestock in Cameroon and that credit could accelerate
this development. Unfortunately, FONADER was dissolved and the momentum
generated under the Project was dissipated. The Project amply demonstrated
once again the difficulty of SODEPA, a public enterprise encumbered with
inflexible financial and personnel procedures, to successfully manage a
commercial operation. Assigning to SODEPA extension functions, not only
duplicated the responsibility of the livestock ministry, but also detracted
SODEPA management and resources from its commercial operations.
15.         The non-synchronization of the credit effectiveness of the
cofinancing agency constrained the efficiency of FONADER and prevented the
release of IDA funds that were tied to disbursements of the cofinancier.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1010-CM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BN_K'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Prolect Identity
Project Iuume:           Second Livestock Development Project
Credit No.:              1010-CM
RVP Unit:                Africa
Country:                 Cameroon
Sector :                 Agriculture
Subsector:               Livestock
B.  Back&round
1.1       Despite its large livestock herd (2.3 million cattle, 2.9 million
sheep and goats) compared to a population of less than 6 million people,
Cameroon was  in the 1960s importing about  10,000 metric tons of meat
annually. This was about 13% of the total consurption, but import of meat
was projected to increase to 25,000 tons bz 1985. The main reasons for the
meat shortage were the low productivity of the nati-nal herd and constraints
in the marketing system. In the early i970s, Government prepared a long term
strategy, the "Plan Viande", for the development of the livestock sub-sector.
IDA's involvement in tha subsector started with a credit of US $11.6 million
equivalent to finance the first phase of the "Plan Viande" under the First
Livestock Development Project (1975-80).
1.2       The first project aimed  to:  (a)  free 800,000 ha.  of highly
productive pasture from tsetse infestation; (b) establish three 20,000 ha.
state cattle ranches; (c) develop 150 private cattle ranches and farms; (d)
construct and operate two slaughter plants; (e) modernize 12 butcheries; and
(f) provide technical assistance for (i) a nascent livestock extension
service; (ii) training of slaughterhouse and credit managers; and (iii) the
establishment of the Government parastatal, Soci6t6 de D6veloppement et
d'Exploitation Animale (SODEPA), to implement the state ranch and
slaughterhouse components of the project.
1.3       The first project met most of its physical targets except the
slaughterhouses, which were to be completed under the second project.
However, the project's impact on national meat production fell far short of
appraisal expectations (2000 versus 4,300 tons p.a).   The economic and
financial performance of the parastatal ranches was disappointing.   By
contrast the performance of the private producers that participated was



-2-
beyond expectations. The tsetse eradication had the greatest impact as an
estlmated 60,000 head of cattle moved into the area and produced an
incremental 1,000 tons of meat p.a.   The economic rate of return of the
comp;leted project was calculated at 42 compared to 13% at appraisal.
C.    roiect Obiectives and Description
1.4       The objective of the Second Livestock Development Project, planned
for implementation during 1980-84, was to complete some of the components not
fully completed during the first project and to implement the second phase of
the "Plan Viande4' aimed at increasing meat production and the income of
livestock producers. The necond project would complete construction of the
two slaughterhouses, expand the tsetse free area and implement a revised
trainin&: proeram began under the first project. Emphasis would be placed on
promoting swallholder production of meat, especially pig and poultry and
stre_gth-ari.ng the implementation capacity of government agencies promoting
livestoc3: development; i.e., the MinistAre de I'Elevage et des Industries
Animates (MINEL), SODEl'A and the agricultural credit agency, Fonds National
de D6veloppement Rural (FONADER).
1.5       Pro1ect Descriptions   The Second Livestock Development Project
would provide for:
(a)  i.nvestment credit and working capital through FONADER: for pig
breeding and fattening (200 loans), broiler production (100 loans),
eggs and cockerel production (100 loans) and cattle production on
small mixed farms (500 loans), private cattle breeding and
fattening ranches (140 loans) and small-scale cattle production
(800 producers in 40 group loans) in the tsetse cleared areas and
small ranches in the North-West province (30 loans);
(b) strengthening SODEPA through provision of needed civil works,
equipment and vehicles and technical assistance to: (i) complete
the construction of and manage the two slaughterhouses; (ii)
improve its financial control capacity through a financial
controller; and (iii) improve its mangement capacity through a
ranch management specialist;
(c) completing the program of eradication of tsetse flies in the
remaining 276,000 ha. of the target area of 800,000 ha. under the
first project, further expanding the tsetse cleared area by an
additional 163,000 ha. and preventing the infestation of some
900,000 ha. of area jeopardized in the southern slopes of the
Adamoua Plateau;
(d)  strengthening MINEL's veterinary field services in the Adamoua
Plateau to ensure adequate disease prevention and control;



3-
(e) improving the program of formal and in-service training for: (i)
MINEL veterinary  field dervice  staff;  (ii)  SODEPA  agents  in
slaughterhouse management and operation; (iii) FONADER agents in
credit supervision and monitoring; and (iv) MINEL staff assigned to
the Special Mission in tsetse eradication, survey and perimeter
maintenance;
(f) establishing a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under MINEL with
overall responsibilities for project coordination, headed by a
Project Coordinator; and
(g)  providing  funds for the    'paration of a possible  follow-up
project.
D.   Project-Design and Organization
1.6       While the project design was not innovative, its scope and scale of
operations were appropriate. The Project was well prepared and its design
took full account of the experience gained under the first livestock project.
Its objectives conformed with `overnment's strategy of increasing livestock
production for domestic consumption. The emphasis of production investment
markedly shifted away from state operations to private activities.
Parastatal investment in the second project was planned for only $ 4.6
million or 15% of base cost. Moreover, the tsetse eradication and improved
animal health and extension services components (55% of total base costs) was
to support mostly private sector production.
1.7       In retrospect, assigning SODEPA a combined function of commercial
activity and a development activity not related to its commercial interests,
i.e assisting FONADER in its ranch loans and providing extension services to
pzivate ranchers, was a mistake. In the event, SODEPA proved incapable of
discharging this responsibility, which should have been borne by the regular
extension services of MINEL.
1.8       The first project was totally financed by the Government and
project beneficiaries ($ 4 million, or 26Z) and IDA ($ 11.6 million or 74%).
The second project was expected to cost US$ 36 million net of taxes, out of
which Government and livestock producers would finance $11 million (30%).
The Federal Republic of Germany would finance $ 9 million (25%) and IDA the
remaining $ 16 million (45%).
1.9       The Project would mainly be executed within the institutional
arrangements developed during the first project. The operational capability
of MINEL, SODEPA and FONADER was to be strengthened through establishing
direct lines of authority and clear definitions of responsibilities and by
providing all three institutions with sufficient resources and support to
carry out the Project.
1.10      FONADER would administer the credit component of the program
promoting increased livestock production by the private jector. SODEPA would



4-
oversee the completion and operation of the two slaughterhousee and the
operation and management of the three parastatal ranches as w"ill as provide
extension services to private ranchers in the tsetse cleared areas. MINEL
would be responsible for veterinary and animal production extension services
and the tsetse eradication program. The PCU established under MINEL would be
responsible for overall coordination, monitoring, evaluating and advising the
agencies executing the various components of the Project.
E. Project Implementation
1.11      Credit Effectiveness and Prolect Start-up:  The Credit was approved
on April 22, 1980 and signed on June 20, 1980. It became effective on May
12, 1981.   Credit effectiveness was postponed twice due to (a) delays in
getting the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and FONADER prepared
and signed and the necessary legal opinion on it submitted to IDA; and (b)
delays in recruiting the technical assistance specialists.
1.12      Implementation Schedule:  The Project was originally scheduled to
be completed by December 31, 1984, but most of the project components were
completed three and half years later in December 1987. The Closing Date was
extended four times to December 31, 1985; December 31, 1986; December 31,
1987 and December 31, 1988. The final extension was made to allow an orderly
completion of the physical expansion of the Yaound6 slaughterhouse. The main
reasons for the delay were: (a) the late start-up of the Project; (b) late
effectiveness of the KfW credit in 1984, three years after project start-up;
(c) lack of counterpart funding, especially for the veterinary and livestock
extension component; (d) ineffectiveness of the first project coordinator, a
technical assistant; and (e) lack of interest by MINEL ia the implementation
of the Project during 1981-84.
1.13      Procurement: Procurement for the execution of the components under
SODEPA and the Tsetse Eradication Unit were by and large done on schedule and
smoothly, while those for the veterinary and livestock extension were
inordinately delayed and caused problems of reimbursement due to lack of
compliance with Bank procurement procedures and guidelines.
1.14      Project Costs.  The estimated cost of the Project at appraisal was
about US$ 39.9 million. The final cost was about xx as shown in Table 5.
1.15      Disbursement.  The estimated and actual disbursement of the Credit
is given in Table 3. Disbursement was delayed due to the late start-up of
the Project.   Government was slow in allocating counterpart funds co the
project, especially to the infrastructural development of MINEL's veterinary
services. Government funding for this component was released only in the
middle of 1983, two years after credit effectiveness.  The KfW credit was
sig..ed in April 1983 and became effective about 9 months later.   This
prevented the release of IDA funds for reimbursement of FONADER expenditures.
This contributed to the slow rate of disbursement in the first three years of



-5-
the Project.  Disbursement was made till February 27, 1989 when the total
Credit amount was fully disbursed.
1.16      Credit Allocation.  The original, revised and actual allocations of
the Credit are shown in Table 4.  The original allocation was revised on
February 28, 1986 to reflect changes in cost estimates. The allocation to
SODEPA was increased by nearly 75% to cater for the expansion of the Yaound6
slaughterhouse and purchasing of more cattle to enhance the viability of the
ranches.    The  allocation  to  FONADER  for  private  sector  credit  was
significantly reduced (by 31%) because FONADER had used its own resources in
the early life of the Project when it was ineligible for IDA disbursement due
to delays in the effectiveness of the RFW credit. The allocation to *MINEL
for veterinary and extension services and to the PCU also reduced by 25% and
33%, respectively, due to slowness in implementing those components.
F. Project Results
1.17      Project Objectives.  The Project achieved some of its objectives.
However, it failed in the major objective of increasing meat production in
state-owned and private ranches on a sustainable basis and in strengthening
the institutional capacity of government agencies in promoting livestock
development in the country.   Four of the seven project components were
eventually completed successfully. These were: (a) strengthening of SODEPA;
(b) the tsetse eradication campaign; (c) staff training; and (d) preparing a
successor project. The credit component managed to disburse more funds than
originally allocated but the program was not implemented as foreseen in the
project design (See para. 22-24). Strengthening of MINEL's veterinary field
setvices to ensure adequate disease prevention and control was not
effectively  carried  out.    The  Project  Coordination  Unit  (PCU)  was
established. However, it failed to coordinate project implementation. It
did not set up any management information system that could enable MINEL to
effectively monitor and evaluate the diverse activities of the Project and it
did not develop institutional capacity to undertake such coordination for the
successor project.
1.18      SODEPA managed to complete the two slaughterhouses started in
Yaound6 and Douala under the first project. Cameroonian staff were trained
in sustainably operating them without financial loss.  On the other hand,
unacceptably low technical and economic performance continued to plague the
three parastatal ranches operated by SODEPA due to lack of proper management.
1.19      The tsetse eradication component was successfully implemented and
Cameroonian staff obtalned sufficient training and experience to sustain the
operation on their own after project completion. Smallholder production of
meat was promoted but meat production was not substantially increased because
the institutional capacity to support smallholders with extension, veterinary
and supervised credit services were not sufficiently developed and sustained
after project completion.  FONADER has been liquidated under Government's



-6-
banking reform program with no bank yet adequately assuming its function of
making credit available for omallholders.
Physical Results
1.20      The credit component, with an allocation of $9.1 million (30% of
base costs) succeeded in achieving 96% of the number of loans targetad in the
SAR. The monetary value of the Loans surpassed that allocated in the SAR as
shown in Table 4. However, this component did not succeed in achieving the
expected increase in meat production and producers' income as the
institutional capacity to support smallholders with extension, veterinary and
supervised credit services were not sufficiently developed.
1.21      The technical assistance for the credit component wa3 delayed so
much that most of the credit had already been granted and disbursed with
little technical plannirng, support and supervision.   Upon arrival of the
technical assistants, much of their time was spent in crisis management of
how to effectively increase loan recovery than in training FONADER staff the
arts of responsible agricultural portfolio management.
1.22      The  Project  enabled  FONADER  to  expand  its  livestock  credit
operations from one province, Adamoua, to two others, the North-West and the
West.   Although the total target of loans was largely met, there was a
significant variation in reaching the targets set for the different types of
producers. Whereas the number of loans for egg production and cattle ranches
were overachieved by 14 and 101 percent, respectively, those for pig breeding
and cattle production in mixed farms were respectively 27 and 88 percent of
the SAR targets. No loans were given to two categories specified in the SAR;
i.e., for broiler production and cattle production for groups of farmers to
be settled in tsetse cleared areas of the Adamoua Plateau (See Table 4).
1.23      The variation was much more accented in terms of the value of the
loans. According to the SAR, credit for cattle ranching was only 39% against
the actual which was 60% of the total credit. Total credit given for poultry
production was 23%, which is only 3% more than that allocated in the SAR for
broiler and egg production.  While the value of credit allocated for pig
production in the SAR was 25%, that realized by the Project was only 6% of
the total credit given under the Project.
1.24      There are several reeaons for this significanit variation.  First,
loans for pig production were suspended following outbreaks of the African
Swine Fever disease, a major killer for which there is no vaccine nor an
effective cure. Second, the importation of cheap frozen poultry and the lack
of an organized marketing system that could purchase, dress and transport
broilers from the North-West and West provinces to urban centers in Douala
and Yaound& were major disincentives to investment in broiler production.
Producers opted for egg production and sold cockerels and old layers for meat
instead of producing broilers.  Third, the 40 group loans to 800 farmers
never materialized as settlement in the tsetse cleared areas became difficult



-7-
due to problems of land tenure and difficulties in organizing farmers into
groups.
1.25      The overall recovery rate of the credit that was due for repayment
as at June 30, 1986 was 69.8 2%./  However, this varied from province to
province. The lowest credit recovery was in Adamoua (61%) followed by Waest
(70%)  and North-west  (75%).   The global recovery rate may deteriorate
substantially as FONADER has been dissolved and replaced only by the Cr6dit
Agricole du Cameroun, an agricultural bank after a two year hiatus.
Impact of Credit
1.26      Although one can discern that the Credit had a positive impact on
improving somewhat the technology of livestock production and thus on
increasing meat production, it is difficult to estimate the incremental
amount produced because neither MINEL nor FONADER kept production records.
Moreover, the production plans proposed in the credit applications were not
followed properl. In the case of cattle production loans, which were 60% of
the loan portfolio, only 38% of the borrowers actually invested the loan in
cattle production. Even then only half of these followed the proposed plan
in their credit application. The others implemented the approved proposal at
various degrees below the targets in their applications. This situation would
make estimating the incremental production on the basis of loan amounts given
highly conjectural.
1.27      Several factors contributed to the non-realization of the plans.
These were: (a) inexperience of the borrowers with livestock rearing; (b)
shortage of breeding and fattening cattle; (e) weakness of MINEL's extension
and veterinary services; and (d) inadequate supervision, lack of discipline
and lack of tachnical skills in livestock production on the part of FONADER
field staff.
1.28      According to the SEDA study 2/, a majority of the borrowers for
cattle ranches (62x) had no previous experience with cattle production. They
had other interests like trading, transport, the civil service, etc. They
became interested in cattle production only because of the opportunity the
Project created for acquiring land and cattle via the tsetse eradication
program and the credit facility. These town dwellers used their influence in
obtaining what was communal land from the traditional chiefs. In some cases
the fenced ranches blocked access of local communities to water points thus
*X/ The credit due for payment was FCFA 752.7 million (USs 2.3
million), which was about 40% of the total credit disbursed by FONADER
under the Project.
2/ Soci6t6 D'Etudes pour le Developpement de L'Afrique (SEDA). 1987.
Etude sur le Cr6dit aux Eleveurs. Programme CMR 85/004. Ministere de
L'Elvage, des Pgchee et des Industries Animales, Yaound6.



-8-
disrupting herd movements and hampering the traditional management of grazing
resources. This often created a conflict between the ranchers and the local
communities.   The few producers that tried to raise cattle had gross
difficulty due to lack of experience in cattle raising, unavailability of
breeding and fattening stock and lack of supervision and assistance from
MINEL and FONADER. The SEDA study estimates that only 27% of the borrowers
were authentic producers that were serious and could implement a ranching
development plan.  Moreover, there was a serious general drought during
1983-84 and a major outbreak of Rinderpest.   This not only increased
mortality of the cattle that the borrowers had at the time, but also made it
difficult to restock in subsequent years.
1.29      In contrast to Adamoua, most of the borrowers in the two other
provinces attempted to seriously implement the proposed plans in their credit
application for poultry and pig production. About 67% of the borrowers for
pig production were farmers in contrast to only 14% of borrowers for poultry
production.
1.30      SODEPA Results. slaughterhouses:  The slaughterhouses at Yaound6
and Douala, whose construction was started during the first project were
completed in 1984 and 1985, respectively, with technical assistance from a
third consulting firm and with a total delay of 7 years. The slaughterhouse
offering to butchers custom slaughter service in good hygienic conditions are
used to full capacity. The Yaound6 slaughterhouse which was expanded in 1987
is processing about 260 head of cattle per day with a throughput of about
11,000 tons of meat per year. The Douala plant is smaller, processing about
180 head of cattle per day with a throughput of almost 8,700 tons of meat per
year. This throughput represents about 60-65 percent of the weat consumed in
the two cities. In addition the two plants are producing annually about 150
tons of blood, meat and bone meal.
1.31      The slaughterhouses would have been commercially viable were it not
hor the high overhead costs of SODEPA, which are about 30% of the operating
costs  of  the  ranches  and  abattoirs.    Operating  results  of  the  two
slaughterhouses for the financial year 1986-87 showed a gross profit of FCFA
119 million (about US$ 446,000) before depreciation. The net profit reduced
to FCFA 2 million ($7,500) after accounting for depreciation.  Profit was
dampened by Government control of slaughter fees, which had not increased
since the opening of the slaughterhouses.
1.32      SODEPA did not achieve its target of modernizing 12 butcheries in
Yaounda and Douala as foreseen in the SAR due to lack of interest of
butchers.   However, it set up and operated two butcheries in Yaound& to
demonstrate how modern butcheries operate.  The butcheries generated high
demand, particularly because their prices were about 20% lower than those
charged by private butcheries.   Consequently, the operation could not be
sustained as it lost about FCFA 6.8 million ($25,500) during its first year
of operation and the butcheries were closed dcwn.



-9-
1.33      SODEPA  Ranches.      Unacceptably  low  technical  and  economic
performance continued to plague the four ranches operated by SODEPA until the
fifth year of the project's seven year life. Calving rates were below 652
and mortality rates were high, particularly for adult cattle at about 7% p.a.
(see Table  7b).    In  addition,  there were  too many  cases  of  cattle
disappearance due to theft and going astray.  Emergency slaughterings, to
allegedly save sick animals from dying and being wasted, were too frequent.
This low performance was a result of the poor management provided by
inexperienced ranch managers and indiscipline of ranch staff.   Moreover,
supervision from SODEPA head quarters in Yaounds was not frequent and
rigorous.
1.34      A change in the top management of SODEPA in 1984 instituted
improved management techniques and discipline in the work routine of the
ranch staff.   By 1987, calving rate increased to 74% and adult mortality
rates declined to 3%. However, the rates quickly deteriorated in 1988 to 65%
and 4.3%, respectively. The total ranch population of cattle increased from
26,880 in 1984 to 34,261 in 1987 and sales from 3,400 to 4,445 head.  The
ranches became self supporting, though with very low returns of 4% p.a.
1.35      SODEPA Extension Service.   In 1985,  SODEPA established three
extension units in the Northwest and Adamoua Provinces in an effort to
disseminate modern ranching techniques and improved breeding stock to cattle
producers in the areas where  its ranches are located.   Although some
livestock and range management techniques were imparted to few producers,
this task proved to be beyond the capacity of the management of the ranches
at that time. It only served to detract the attention of SODEPA's management
from the commercial objectives of the company. Moreover, it introduced an
undesirable duplication of livestock extensior channels in the country. This
function was appropriately transferred to the livestock ministry under the
successor project.
1.36      SODEPA Financial Results.  The cumulative loss sustained by SODEPA
at the end of the 1986/87 financial year was FCFA 625.66 million ($1.9
million) as shown in Table 7c. This loss may be as high as FCFA 900 million
if depreciation of the infrastructure is rigorously accounted for. The net
worth of SODEPA as at June 1986 was calculated as FCFA 5.7 billion vis a vie
a cumulative capital investment of FCFA 6.6 billion. High overhead costs of
the central headquarters of SODEPA, incompetent management of the ranches in
the early years, and inflexible personnel policies and administrative
procedures ill suited to a commercial operation contributed to its poor
financial performance.
1.37      Tsetse Eradication.  This component of the Project was successfully
implemented. A total of 1.55 million ha of land was sprayed, out of which
548,800 ha represented areas, which were sprayed eiuring the first project but
were reinfected by tsetse flies. This favorably compares to the target of
960,000 ha of spraying in the SAR, but did not increase the total area
intended to be freed by the campaigns under the two projects which was 1.3
ha.   The Project used external consultants to monitor the environmental



- 10 -
effect of the insecticides used on the fauna of the region.   The use of
Dieldrin was discontinued and concentration rates of Decamethrin adjusted to
avoid environmental damage. Towards the end of the Project, a safer method
of tsetse control using traps and attractants was introduced with encouraging
results. A chronic problem of the program was the lack of regulated land use
in the tsetse eradicated area and effective means of controlling the movement
of cattle from tsetse uncleared to cleared areas, making maintenance of
tsetse eradicated areas difficult. The major reason for this problem was the
failure of the Project to involve the local community in its tsetse
eradication program through educational campaigns and participatory planning
and execution of the eradication campaign. The cost of tsetse eradication
was estimated at US$ 15 per ha with a favorable ERR of 202 by Cuisance et al
(1987), assuming the tsetse cleared area was fully stocked.3/.
1.38      Strengthening of Veterinary Services in the Adamoua Plateau.  This
component of the Project showed little progress due to non provision of
counterpart funds and lack of interest by MINEL in its implementation. In
1983, Rinderpest broke out in 5 Departments of the Northern Province and
MINEL refused to launch a vaccination campaign in time despite the advice of
Bank staff.   The bids for building the veterinary infrastructure and for
procuring equipment and vehicles were delayed substantially due to lack of
government funds. The contract for building veterinary clinics, vaccination
parks, offices and staff housing was signed in the fourth quarter of 1985,
more than 4 years after effectiveness of the Credit. Five cars purchased for
this  component were  diverted  elsewhere.   About  three  fourths  of  the
veterinary infrastructure built was completed at the end of 1986 and the
remaining at the end of 1987.   While the vaccination parks were used
regularly, the offices space provided was in excess of what was required. In
1990, only half of these offices were being utilized.
1.39      Studies.   Four important studies were concluded during project
implementation:
(i)  A socio-economic study of traditicnal livestock production systems
was conducted to shed light on the major constraints of these
systems and possible solutions. The results of the stud) were used
in designing the Third Livestock Development Project, which
emphasizes forming producers' associations and strengthening
extension and training services to these producers.
(ii)   A study of the impact of the tsetse eradication program was
conducted to find out the environmental and economic impact with
the purpose of making recommendations on how the tsetse freed areas
could be maintained and how the campaign would further be expanded
under the successor project. The study influenced the design of
3/   Cuisance, D. et al (1987).  Lutte Contre les Glossines: Bilan et
Perspectives. HiniBtare de L'Elevage. des P6ches et des Industries
Animales. CMR85/004. Yaound6.



- 11 -
the campaign for the Third Livestock Development Project.   It
recommended that the beneficiaries be fully involved in the
planning and execution of the campaign to improve the maintenance
of the tsetse freed areas and to facilitate cost recovery for this
maintenance. It also recommended a less costl method of tsetse
eradication.
(iii)   An evaluation was made on the investment and operations
of SODEPA's ranches and slaughterhouses and how it should be
restructured  to make it financially viable.   The evaluation
properly analyses the ills of the SODEPA; but its recommendation
was a complex proposal to involve SODEPA in establishing more
slaughterhouses in the provinces and taking over an existing
fattening ranch and establishing new ones in association with
village organizations (10% share), private sector (252) and SODEPA
(65Z), which made it unattractive to incorporate in the design of
the successor ptoject.
(iv)   A study of the impact of the credit program on livestock producers
was carried out. While it characterized the shortcomings of the
program and how they could have been avoided, it failed to quantify
the benefits and costs realized by the credit beneficiaries.
G.  Proiect Sustainability
1.40      Although 15% of the tsetse cleared area (about 150,000 ha.) was
reinfected and had to be resprayed, the tsetse eradication program was
successful and is sustainable, especially with the utilization of less costly
and environmentally hazardous methods of tsetse control introduced under the
Project. Sufficient Cameroonians were trained to continue the program on a
sound footing. It was shown that the participation of the beneficiaries in
the planning and implementation of tsetse eradication is important for
safeguarding tsetse freed areas from reinfestation. The Project showed that
there exists a good potential for the development of small livestock in
Cameroon and that credit could accelerate this development. Unfortunately,
FONADER was dissolved and the momentum generated under the Project was
dissipated.
1.41      The two slaughterhouses are sustainable, if slaughter fees are
charged in accordance with prevailing economic situations. The experience
with the management of the three ranches and the two slaughter houses by
SODEPA showed that they could not be financially viable under parastatal
management. Efforts are being made under the successor project to privatize
them.
1.42      Under the Project, the livestock ministry did not develop its
capacity: (a) to effectively extend veterinary and extension services; and
(b) to supervise and monitor development projects under its wing, a problem
still plaguing the successor project.



- 12 -
H.   Bank's Performance
1.43      Despite  delays  in implementation,  Bank assistance  and advice
contributed to improvement in project design and in implementation,
particularly implementation with respect to the tsetse eradication,
strengthening SODEPA and the provision of technical assistance components.
Close supervision was maintained on the environmental effects of tsetse
eradication and Bank staff were instrumental in banning spraying with Ensodil
and Dieldrin from the program. Bank supervisors repeatedly pointed out the
unacceptably low technical and economic performance of the SODEPA ranch
operations, which together with the change in the management of SODEPA led to
some temporary (see table 7b) improvement in the performance of the ranches.
Bank staff gave valuable counsel in the arrangements for the completion of
the Yaound6 and Douala slaughterhouses.
1.44      On the other hand Bank staff could not effectively influence the
credit operations of FONADER and the veterinary and extension services of
MINEL. The Bank could have expedited project implementation by recognizing
the ineffectiveness of the Project Coordinator and arranging for his removal
much earlier than October, 1984. The Bank could also have pressurized GTZ,
KFW and the Government to expedite the preparation, signing and effectiveness
of the KFW credit.
1.45      Bank  staff  could  have  been  more  diplomatic  and  avoid  a
confrontation over their insistence that cattle be stunned with gun shots for
slaughtering at the Yaound6 slaughterhouse.  Although they were right on
grounds of efficiency and the practice in other Islamic countries, Bank staff
could have been more sensitive to the request of the Moslem butchers who
wanted the traditional gorging of the animal without stunning.
1.46      The Bank adequately supervised the Project fielding 12 supervision
missions in the 7 year life of the Project. The missions were technically
strong and there was good continuity between missions.
I.   Borrower's Performance:
1.47      The Borrower's performance in executing the project components was
variable.    The  tsetse  eradication program was  smoothly  executed with
excellent dialogue between the Borrower and IDA.   Although the SODEPA
management was trying its best to implement the Project, its public nature
and structure did not augur well for efficient commercial management of its
enterprises.   The opening of the new Yaound6 slaughterhouse was delayed
because Government was very slow in closing the old unhygienic abattoir.
MINEL did not effectively supervise the Project Coordination Unit, which
failed to carry out its monitoring and supervision functions properly.
Moreover, it failed to prepare a Project Completion Report, which is clearly
stated in the SAR, and is an obligation of Government in the Credit
Agreement.   MINEL did not give adequate suspport to strengthening its own



13 -
extension and veterinary services.   FONADER granted and disbursed loans
without adequate project preparation and it failed to properly supervise the
implementation of the investment.
1.48      The Bank had to resort to notifying Government on December 8, 1983
that it would suspend disbursements by February 15, 1984 unless it would: (a)
second nine technicians and recruit a small livestock specialist for the
credit component; (b) recruit a training specialist to strengthen veterinary
services; (c) close the old Yaound6 municipal slaughterhouse; and (d) present
a strategy on how to improve the management of the three SODEPA ranches.
These conditions were met by March 15, 1984. The 'laughterhouse was closed
by Presidential decree. IDA did not accept the strategy for the financial
viability of the three ranches and asked for their privatization or closure.
The notice of suspension drew the attention of Government to the problems of
the Project a9-A aroused interest in accelerating its implementation.
J.   Consulting Services
1.49      A  number  of  consulting  services  were  provided  by  various
institutions and individual consultants.   The performance of most of the
consultants was satisfactory. The exceptions were the first two technical
assistants appointed as Project Coordinator and a consulting firm for
supervising the construction of the Douala slaughterhouse.
K.   Project Relation
1.50      Despite  delays  in project  implementation  and  the  notice  of
disbursements suspension, a cordial re'lationship prevailed between IDA and
Borrower staff throughout the implementation of the Project.
L.   Prolect Documentation and Data
1.51      The Credit and Project Agreements and the SAR provided adequate and
appropriate guidance for project implementation. No amendment was effected
to the Credit Agreement. A management information system was not instituted
by the PCU. Consequently, data was not available on the benefits and costs
of private sector beneficiaries of the Project nor data that enable accurate
estimation of overall project benefits.   FONADER, SODEPA and the Tsetse
Eradication Unit kept well organized records. No information was available
on the activities of the veterinary and extension service. Consequently, no
attempt was made to calculate the ERR of the Project. Considering the poor
performance in the credit and livestock service components which were
reflected in a marginal impact on productivity, the continued unviability of
the parastal ranches, and the uncertainty regarding the extent to which the
investment in tse tse eradication is being utilized, the ERR is likely to be
less than 102.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1010-CM)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
2.1         While the evaluation of those components regarded as
successful (Part I, para. 17), the findings of the others, such as
sustainable increase in meat production and the strengthening of the
capacity of governmental organizations to develop livestock farming, are
more nuanced. As regards the increase in meat production, there was
undeniable growth in the poultry farming sector, thanks to the loans
distributed by FONlADER. The constraints cited: such as competition from
imports or the lack of marketing channels, are temporary and, in the
case of the second, always a factor in the development of increased
production. The increases in cattle and hog production were constrained
by the occurrence of two epidemic diseases which the project did little
to counter. Consequently, it is difficult to assess whether an increase
in meat supplies brought about by the Project was not temporarily
affected by these two epidemics, which, as witnessed in other countries
are difficult to control.
2.2         The average results obtained in extension services are
closely associated with the fact that this component of the Project had
been entrusted to agencies for which it was not their primary activity.
The efforts of SODEPA suffered from a lack of necessary funding, brought
about by the financial and economic crisis, and the IMF and World Bank
recommendations with respect to a halting of subsidies to public and
parapublic entities. FONADER was unable to devote all the attention
required to extension activities with stock farmers because of their
other different tasks such as credit and monitoring. Closer attention
to these aspects during the appraisal stage of the Project might have
made it possible to propose other alternatives to implementing extension
services.
2.3         The strengthening of veterinary services in Adamaoua was
delayed not by budgetary problems, but because of constraints assoctated
with the construction of the requisite infrastructures: selection of
locations, awarding of contracts, shortcomings of some contractors. As
a result, the buildings could not be completed until after successive
extensions of the Project. After the close of the Project, budgetary
constraints arising from the economic and financial crisis made it
I1/ See Annex: Response to the Borrower's Perspective to the Project Completion
Report.



- 15 -
impossible to make use of these facilities which explains the low rate
of utilization.
FONADER
2.4         The credit component experienced difficulties.  These were
partially overcome, and were ultimately reflected in greater flexibility
in the distribution of subloans, as compared with the projections of the
appraisal report. Despite the Bank's support on this matter, the
agreement between FONADER and KWF could not be signed until 1984, the
date initially planned for the end of the Project. In the meantime, at
the Bank's insistence, MINEPIA had seconded technicians to FONADER who
were unable to obtain maximum benefit since they were hired rather late.
The involvement of two cofinancers, together with the existence of
different implementing strategies (FONADER and MINEPIA) who did not
share the same degree of interest in the distribution of subloans, led
to intra-institutional constraints which resulted in considerable
delays.
2.5         The occurrence of Rinderpest and African swine fever had
varying repercussions on the distribution of loans. Swine fever
appeared in the provinces of Western Cameroon, where the project had
made no plans (as in the case of Adamaoua), for strengthening veterinary
services to combat the epidemic. However, Rinderpest was not the only
reason for the lack of purchase of young breeding stock or cattle for
fattening. The difficulties encountered were rather structural, as
shown by the experience of SODEPA, which ran into the same constraints.
The Rinderpest epidemic only accentuated the other problems for a period
of time.
2.6         There were two reasons why the extension agents made
available to MINEPIA by FONADER were not as effective as expected in
monitoring and extension. On the one hand, the late hiring of the two
technical assistant experts caused by intra-institutional difficulties,
meant that the extension agents could not take full advantage of their
experience. Moreover, the stress placed during supervision missions on
the objectives of recovering loans certainly prompted the managers
concerned to devote greater attention to this aspect of their activities
than to extension services. On the positive side, the recovery rates
distributed under the Project are among the best by far ever obtained by
FONADER.
2.7         Above all, it bears noting that the credit did not take into
consideration the operating costs of the extension structure. IBRD's
disbursements were limited to the subloans, to the purchase of vehicles
and equipment, and to training and technical assistance. From the
outset, the very design of the financing plan entailed the risk that the
necessary funds would not be available. The Third Livestock Project
deals with this aspect more realistically, on the one hand by entrusting
the provision of extension services to stock farmers to a single
extension agency, and on the other, by providing funds to cover the
operating costs of that agency.



- 16
SODEPA
2.8         Slaughterhouses,  The technical and financial performance of
these slaughterhouses are surely cne of the Project's major successes.
The slaughtering fees were set when the slaughterhouses first went into
operation at a level considerably higher than the Bank had recommended
(CFAF 4,000 instead of CPAF 2,500). Subsequently the directors, who are
the parties responsible for setting these rates, not the Government,
sought constantly, as did supervision missions, to improve the
profitability of the slaughterhouses by improving productivity rather
than by taking the easy path of increasing fees; the latter solution
also risked inciting users to turn their backs on the slaughterhouses
and use clandestine facilities. Accordingly, productivity in terms of
tonnage of meat slaughtered per worker-month rose from 5 metric tons to
over 11 metric tons in Yaound6, and from 3 metrie tons to nearly 14
metric tons in Douala. Concomitantly, gross profits before amortization
amounted to CFAF 137 million 1987/88, or 70 percent higher than the
results for 1986/87.
2.9         The installation of modern butcher shops, as might have been
expected, met the obstacle of the deep-seated conservatism of this
powerful guild. Similarly, the buying habits of virtually all consumers
show that more importance is attached to the price of meat than to the
modernity of the store where it is purchased and the technical skills of
the vendor. Nevertheless, SODEPA did a good job of providing
professional training needed to 12 traditional butchers in both Yaound6
and Douala. Despite the closing of the credit on 12/31/86 as far as
Category 1 is concerned, FONADER and SODEPA signed a protocol of
agreement on June 3, 1987 on the modalities for their collaboration with
a view to the distribution of credits to modern butchers. Because
PONADER was dissolved shortly thereafter, continued collaboration in
this area was not possible.
2.10        Ranches.  Factors other than those mentioned explain the
average performance of the ranches:
(i)   the quantitative problems of gathering sufficient numbers of
animals made it impossible to stock these units at the
planned pace. The good results obtained since 1989 reflect
the reality of the operation;
(ii)  the animals available on the market are those that are put
up for sale because they are deemed unsatisfactory. This
problem and the preceding one, as also indicated by the
recipients of FONADER credits, show that this was a
structural problem, since private operators acting directly
in their own interest found it just as difficult as Ministry
officials to find a solution.
(Iii) specialists are of one mind in acknowledging that mixing
animals from different sources cannot but lead to high



- 17 -
mortality rates; this view, which is well known in poultry
farming and swine raising as reflected in the adage of "all
in, all out" is also valid for ruminants. In the case of
the stocking process excessive mortality was observed until
the normal rate of operations was achieved;
(iv)  the sometimes contradictory changes requested by supervisory
missions in the general approach (breeding ranch, fattening
ranch, mixed) or in the short-term management (ratio of
heads of cattle to ranch employees) did not permit SODEPA to
develop and implement a long-term policy; moreover, when the
first Project Coordinator, with the tacit approval of the
Bank, played a key role in the redefinition of certain
objectives, he ended up not devoting as much intsrest as
might have been desirable in carrying out the mandate for
which he had been hired.
2.11        SODEPA's extension operations were carried out by qualified
personnel, who were specially seconded by -INEPIA and had participated
in training and research missions devoted to the essential features of
the Project. Thus there was no intervention by the ranch management
personnel, who were not directly involved in these operations. However,
the dual aims of the activities proposed for SODEPA came to light quite
rapidly, when the company was asked at one and the same time to provide
this extension work and to make all its activities profitable, to
conduct its business with an eye on the bottom line. Thus, after having
used its own funds for two years, without any subsidy to finance the
operation of the extension activities, SODEPA virtually halted all
activities in this area. At roughly the same time, the Third Livestock
Project appraisal suggested that this activity should be withdrawn from
SODEPA, which also influenced its short-term decision.
STRENGTHENING OF VETERINARY SERVICES
2.12        The delays noted in this component do not stem specifically
form the causes cited.  For example, the lack of counterpart funds
cannot be advanced, since, quite the contrary, the Government had paid
its entire share (40 percent) in the financing of the construction by
disbursing it for the startup of the enterprises; this met with the
Bank's approval, moreover, as a result of which credit was subsequently
to provide 100 percent of the costs up to the initial ceiling. The
delays actually were caused by the choice of sites for buildings, the
Bank's refusal to finance renovations only, the complexity of the
contracting procedures, and, finally, the difficulties experienced by
certain enterprises in completing their construction work.
2.13        The sites to be selected for developing infrastructures were
not clearly identified during the Project preparation and identification
phases. It was therefore necessary to carry out thia lengthy
preliminary work before issuing calls for bids, in order that bidders
would have the maximum possible amount of information not only about the
type of structures desired, but their location in relation to their



- 18 -
decision-making center or supply points. The first Coordinator played a
significant role in carrying out this preliminary work, as well as in
producing the documentation materials for the call for bids.
2.14        Once the sites were identified, it appeared that some
existing infrastructures, which were already rather old, could be
restored to complete functionality if they were renovated and
rehabilitated. The Bank rejected this proposal, for which the drafting
of a construction contract would have been quite simple from the
standpoint of design, execution, and technical and financial control.
These exchanges of views and the decision-making process not only added
to the delays, but also to an unfortunate duplication of infrastructures
in the field.
2.15        The signing of contracts for the construction involved the
work of two separate administrations: MINEPIA, a technical department,
and the Ministry of Government Procurement, the only authority under
national regulations which is empowered to award contra 's in such large
amounts. This structure raised problems, caused slowdowns, and led to
delays, which the Bank repeatedly stressed in its Project reviews and
which negatively affected this component. In July 1986, however, a
Decree was issued which, inter alia, adjusted the thresholds required
for review by Government Procurement from CFAF 10 million to CFAF 50
million, with the technical departments retaining financial authority
for lesser amounts. In November 1988, a second Decree established the
DGTC, whose responsibilities include the procedure for announcing and
awarding government contracts. These two measures, in particular the
first of them, have made it possible to simplify and speed up the
contracting process.
2.16        The procedure of calling for open bids resulted in the
awarding of contracts to enterprises which certainly offered the best
guarantees from the national standpoint, but which were probably not the
best equipped to carry out construction Projects spread over an entire
province. In hindsight, they underestimated the conditions under which
they were involved withir the very framework of their bids. Moreover,
the distances to and scattering of the more than 20 construction sites
from their head offices significantly impeded the execution of
construction, and in the case of one of the bidders led to considerable
delays. SODEPA experienced the same type of problems for the
construction of the extension services building in Adamaoua. In future,
it would be preferable to limit the calls for bids to enterprises that
are located nearby in the same province, and even, by splitting up the
bid lots, within the same department.
2.17        The buildings were finally delivered at the planned closing
date for the Project. However, the Project had failed to provide
funding againsi the Credit for equipping the facilities, and because of
the economic and financial crisis, it was not possible to equip them
completely using domestic funds. The equipment is being obtained
gradually, when budgetary constraints permit, and should make it
possible to use the offices constructed in their entirety.



- 19 -
2.18        The Rinderpest epidemic broke out at a time when the
infrastructures were unfinished which would have been the case
regardless of the procedural rigidity of MINEPIA. Moreover, the
veterinary health authorities are constantly on a watch to minimize
vaccinations in order to establish animal populations which are
definitely identifiable as serologically immune, so as to maintain
export potential. The EEC has just forbidden vaccination against foot-
and-mouth disease within Community for the same reason. The combination
of these two facts thus explains the "delays" in carrying out the
vaccinations. However, the Government undertook, following this
epidemic and when budgetary appropriations so permitted, to establish
mobile prophylaxis teams equipped with vehicles and ample equipment of a
suitable quality to enable them to intervene as rapidly as possible
whenever there were new outbreaks of epidemic diseases. The use of the
term "strengthening of veterinary services" by MINEPIA. The latter
interpreted the expression broadly, i.e., strengthening throughout the
entire national territory, whereas the Bank obviously stuck to the terms
of the Project documents, which limited the purchase of goods (vehicles
and equipment) to the province of Adamaoua; after the Bank made these
observations, the vehicles were returned or replaced in Adamaoua.
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
2.19        As the project records bear out, the first Coordinator,
immediately upon taking up his duties, performed the important task of
translating the Project documents into understandable technical,
financial, and budget ry programs. The subsequent delays noted in the
implementation of mob. components of the Project, for the various
reasons indicated above (especially in paragraphs 4 and 12), prompted
him to embark on various studies and activities (ranch reorganization,
the extension component of SODEPA, the establishment of veterinary
infrastructures in Adamaoua) which were beneficial to the Project in
general terms, but probably harmful to the Project Coordinator in
particular. It must be noted, however, that the Bank never reported
this change in the Coordinator's activities, which obviously did nothing
to correct the situation. The second Coordinator was responsible for
the creation of a concertation arrangement involving all the players in
the Project and set up a system of follow-up indicators. As he left
Cameroon after only six months for professional reasons, he was unable
to implement this system. The third Coordinator took up his duties at a
time when the major concern of the Government and the Bank was shifting
to preparation of the Third Livestock Project; he therefore played an
active role in preparing and pushing forward all ;hese studies,
including, on the Bank's recommendation, the drafting of the proposals
relating to the development of the raising of small ruminants in the
feasibility study for the following Project.
2.20        The introduction of a coherent monitoring and evaluation
system was thus compromised by the fact that three different technical
assistants held tha Coordinator position, as well as by the nature of
the most pressing tasks confronting them. It should be added that the
design for project coordination was probably not the most appropriate.



- 20
Even more thani the project direction itself, coordination depends as
much if not more on the human relations the Coordinator is able to
establish than it does on his technical capacities. These relations
also depend on those with whom he is dealing, persons who may also
change over time. Thus, for a project with multiple components and
calling for the involvement of various different persons, and sometimes
inivolving different supervisory structures (as was the case with FONADER
in the Project), simple coordination was probably not enough.
2.21        Similarly, the task assigned to the project coordinator of
drafting the Project Completion Report (PCR) six months after the final
disbursement, was inadequate, not to mention inconsistent with the terms
of the Loan Agreement, there was no way to finance this work after the
Project wae shut down. Moreover, despite repeated verbal requests to
this effect, the Bank never communicated the Terms of reference or
drafting plan of the PCR. The Third Livestock Project provides for the
establishment of a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which will
speed up the drafting of the PCR; it should be noted, however, that the
provisions of Section 7 of the general guidelines on the preparation of
PCRs were not formally agreed jointly.
BANK PERFORMANCE
2.22        The Bank's recommendations and observations both during the
supervisory missions and from its headquarters, basically allowed for
the implementation anid improvement of the technical aspects of the
Project. Tthe successive changes in Project leadership were nevertheless
harmful because of proposals, in particular as regards ranch
reorganization or management, that were contradictory, with each new
person responsible for supervision having his own notion of how things
should go. The institutional aspects, whether internal or external,
even if clearly perceived, did not result in any apparent improvements
following interventions by the Bank.  The fact that recommendations were
issued on speeding up the awarding of contracts, the need for which
MINEPIA was already convinced of, did nothing to bring about improvement
at the level of the other departments concerned.  In such a case, more
direct intervention predicated on the evidence of problems experienced
by a number of projects would have been more convincing. Internally,
the Bank did not stress when it should have the extent to which the
Project Coordinator had departed from the activities set forth in his
mandate; likewise, it did nor communicate the guidelines on preparing
the project completion report in a likely manner.
2..3        The Bank made a great contribution to the secondment of the
MINEPIA specialists to FONADER; however, subsequently insisting on the
loan recovery rates to be achieved. This prompted officials to devote
more energy to that objective than to organizational i8sues and
extension services. On the other hand, however, the recovery rates for
the Project are among the best recorded by FONADER.
2.24        The Bank's officials made themselves readily available for
helping to resolve even the most unforeseeable problems standing in the



- 21 -
way of the project's proper functioning. This great flexibility made it
possible, for example, for SODEPA to finance trips by religious leaders
into muslim areas, but with the animals slaughtered after they were
first stunned. The acceptance of this procedure by the islamic
community of Douala following this trip resulted in better productivity
at that city's slaughterhouse than at the one in Yaound6 (14 metric tons
per employee month as compared to 11 metric tons).
2.25        The approach adopted by the Bank to provide SODEPA with the
resources necessary for extension activities was inconsistent with the
foreseeable approach for the Third Livestock Project, i.e., returning
the extension function to MINEPIA staff. The buildings constructed by
the project are oversized and inappropriate for this new approach, and
will require the managers of the Third Livestock Project to make the
necessary adjustments in the first stages of project implementation.
PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER
2.26        Finally, the performance of each component roughly reflected
the degree of autonomy enjoyed by each implementer in carrying out his
part of the project. The components placed under single responsibility,
and which also had the benefit of experience accumulated in the
preceding project, such as the tse tse eradication, are unsatisfactory.
Those depending on a cofinancer (FONADER), the awarding of contracts by
another agency (strengthening of veterinary services), or decisions from
a higher level in the hierarchy (closing of the municipal
slaughterhouse) suffered from the delays inherent in such intra-
institutional relationships. In order to avoid these delays, the Third
Livestock Project should have provided for single and simple channels
for decision making.
BANK-BORROWER RELATIONS
2.27        Generally speaking, the relations between Bank officials and
the supervisors of the Project were marked by the common concern with
finding a consensus view on the most appropriate ways and means of
advancing the project. As indicated above (paragraph 26), this
objective was more easily attained when it depended on just a single
institution in the borrowing country. The single notification of the
possible suspension of disbursem6nts, which occurred in December 1983,
was triggered mostly by cases in which several players were involved.
In the event, it helped speed up intra-institutional procedures and
decision making.



-  22  -
PROJEC  CDNPLE    REPO
EPUBLIC OF-CA-NEROOM
(CR98     010-CO12.sM)
SEON  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENY PROJECT
PART III; STATISTICAL INFORMATIO
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDTIT
Title                         Approvat                              Purpose                        status
1.     Caowroam  Livestock                1974           To assist Goverrment fn the impLementatIon of    completed
covelopmmt                                        the first phase of its "lmeat plan", which was
Project  (L*oan 983-CM)                           designed to increase meat produtifon in order
to reduce substantiatLy the level of meat
Imports of 10,000 metric tons p.a. projected
to increase to 25,000 mewtric tons p.a. by 1985.
This objective was to be achieved mainly through
(a) clearing 800,000 ha. of tsetse infested area,
Cb) establishing 3 state and 150 private ranches
and Cc) providing technical assistance for
livestock extension, training of officers of the
credit agency and SOCEPA, the parastatal involved
in managing the cattLe ranches and the two
abattoirs at Yaounde and Doumla to be btilLt under
the project.
2.     Carieroon Livestock                1989            The project follows-up on its two predecessor    Ongoing
Sector Oeveotnent                                 and alms to increase meat ard miltk production,
Project CLoan 3014-CM)                            raise producers' income, in particular for poor
herders, and reduce the financial burden of the
sector on govermtent budget, through Ca) policy
reforms aiming at privatization of input
distribution and veterinary services and the
optimization of public services; and (b)
investments in CO) institution building In
extension services and herder organizations;
Cif) range improvement; and Clii) credit for
private producers and heatth service agets.
Table  2.  Proieet  TiS_met_ablea
Item               ~~Planned                   Revised             Actual
-  identifLcatton                            IdentLfied as a follow-up of a predeesgor
projoct
-  PreparatLon                               02-05/78                                      03-06/78
-  Appraisal Mission                              02/79                                         02/79
-  Loan Negotiations                              10/79                     12/79               04/80
-  Board approval                                 12/79                    01/80           04/22/80
-  Loan signature                                                                          06/20/80
-  Loan Effectiveneus                        09/22/80                  12/31/80            05/12/81
-Project Completion                        06/30/84                                      12/31/88
-   Loan  Closing                            12/31/84                  12/31/85            12/31/88
12/31/86
12/31/87
--------------------                    -f-



- 23 -
TABLE 3.  CUMMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US S 1,000)
Estimated SAR            Actual         Actual Cumul-         L-ate
Bank  Fiscal   Diubur-  Cumul-   Disbur-  Cumul-    ative As % of             of Flnal
Year  Quarter  mOment   atlve    sement   ative          Total   SAR          DLaburs.
1981   1          -                    -           -          -    -
2       1550      1550           0          0          0    0
3        950      2500         119        119          1    5
4       1070      3570       1147       1266           8   35
1982   1         970      4540        240       1506          9   33
2       1130      5670          92       1598         10   28
3       1200      6870        972       2570          16   37
4        900      7770         134      2704          17   35
1983   1        1070      8840        132       2836         18   32
2       1030      9870        1414      4250          28   43
3       1030    10900          478      4728          30   43
4       1030    11930          263      4991          31   42
1984   1        1030    12960         114       5105         32   39
2       1030    13900          609      5714          36   41
3        775    14765          870      6584          41   44
4        645    15410          151      6735          42   44
1985   1         295    15705         216       6951         43   44
2        295    16000          531      7482          47   47
3         -        -           125      7607          45    -
4          -       -           140       7647         48    -
1986   1          -        -          543       8290         52      -
2          -       -           563      8853          55     -
3         -        -           120      8973          56     -
4          -       -         1136      10109          6.3    -
1987   1          -        -          789      10898         68       -
2          -       -          1298     12196          76       -
3         -        -          964      13160          82       -
4          -       -           618     13779          86       -
1988   1          -        -          1108    14887          93       -
2          -       -            539    15426          96       -
3         -        -            239    15665          98       -
4          -       -            192    15857          99       -
1989   1          -        -           143    16000        100        -    02/27/89



- 24 -
TABLE 4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONJ
KEY INDICATORS
A. Credit Agreement
Number and Value of loans
SAR  Estimate          Actual
Loan  in            Loan in             Actual as
Million             Million            X of SAR
Indicators                     No.      FCFA        No.     FCFA        No.   FCFA
1.  Pig breeding & Fattening        200      400         55       120         28       30
2.  BroiLer Production              100      150          0         0          0        0
3.  Egg S Cockerel Production    100          150       228       477        228      318
4. Livestock Production in
mixed farms                500       188        442      232         88      123
5.  Cattle ranches                  170      610        348      1240        205      203
5. Group loan in tsetse
cleared areas               40        68          0         0         0        0
B. SODEPA Component
SAR                      Actual as
Unit   Estimates   Actual            % of SAR
1. Slaughterhouse
Cattle slaughtered/day         no.
Yaounde                        150          260             173
Douala                         150          180             120
Butcheries modernized          no.          12            0               0
2. Rsnches
Calving Rate                   (X)          73         65.2             101
Mortality                      (M)         3.0            5              90
Emergency slaughter
& stray losses               (%)           0          1.7
C. Veterinary Services
1.  Construction                        (%)         100          100            100
2.  Building Utilization                (M)         100           50             50
3. Improved veterinary
Services (No. of herdsmen)               1,100            ?               ?
D. Tsetse Eradication
1.  Area cleared                    (000 ha)       960         1,500           156
J/ The rates are for 1987/88. See Table 7b for other years.



- 25 -
TABLE 5. PROJECT COS.TS
(USS '000)
Category                                            SAR Estimate                Act al
Total       %             Total       t
1. Private Sector Credit                            13600      36             83i       25
- sub-loans                                                         5835
- vehicles G equipment                                               200
- specialist services                                                541
2. SODEPA                                              00      15            iX2J1       34
- civil works                                                       1706
- vehiclea, equipment
vaccines, vet. supply                                            4268
- specialist services                                               1734
3. MINEL
- Tsetse Eradication                      11300      30                         29
- civil works
- vehicles, equipment
& aircraf'. hire                                             2275
- insecticides'                                                 4221
-  Vet. Field Services                     3400       9             2821          8
- civil works                                                    1989
- vehicles & equipment                                            615
- specialist services                                             217
-  Project Coord. Unit                     370"      10             13            4
- vehicles & equipment                                            121
- specialist services                                            1375
Sub-total                   37600    100             34219       100
Unallocated                    2300
Total                       39900                    34219



- 26                              Table 6
Page 1 of 2
TABLE 6. PROJECT FINANCING
(USS '000)
IA and Federat A nbi  o   emny Financinq
SAR                                   Actual as % of
Category                                 Estimate          Revised     Actual    SAR    Revised
A. IDA Financing
1. Private Sector Credit                    3200             22C0      2160        68        98
- sub-loans                        2300            1400       1459       63       104
vehicLes & equipment              100             250        160      160        64
- specialist services               800             500        541       68       108
2. SODEPA                                    3000            5200      6171       206       123
-civil works                        650            1500       1023      157        68
- vehicles, equipment
vaccines, vet. supply           1250            2500       3414      273       136
- specialist services              1100            1200       1734      158       144
3. MINEL                                     8300            7300       7668       92       105
-Tsetse Eradication                4300            4500       4271       99        95
- civil works                   100               0          0        0         0
- vehicles, equipment
& aircraft hire              300             100         51       17        51
- insecticides                 3900            4400      4221       108        96
-  Vet. Field Services             2400            1800       2164       90       120
- civil works                  1500            1050       1193       80       114
- vehicles & equipment          500             500       492        98        98
- speciaList services           400             250       479       120       191
-  Project Coord. Unit             1650            1000       1233       75       123
- vehicles & equipment         1250             750       754        60       Thi
- specialist services           400             250       479       120       192
4.  Unallocated                    1450            1350          0         0        0
Sub-total      16000            16000     16000      100       100
8. Federal Republic of Germany Financing
1. Private Sector Credit                     3700
2. Tsetse Eradication                        5300
Sub-total       9000



- 27 -
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
TA,Lg 6. PRgJECT FINANCING
(USS '000)
99veraMlen and Rnfesis   iacn
Category                                  SAR Estimate      Revised   Actua       S       Revs
C. goyerrit Finerinin
1. Private Sector Credit                     4400                       2734        62
* sub-loans                         3200             1960      2042       68        109
- vehicles & equipment                25             62,5        40       160        69
- specialist services                200              -
2. SOOEPA                                     2600                      5530       213
- civil works                        433             1000       683       158        68
v ehicles, equipment
vaccines, vet. supply             312              500       854      274        171
*speciatist services                 275
3. NINEL                                      4800
- Tsetse Eradication                1700             1700      1917       113       113
 civil works                     67
* vehicles, eqipment
& aircraft hire               300              100        51       17         51
 insecticides
. Vet. Field Services               2140
- civil works                   1000              700       795       80        114
- vehicles & equipment           125              125       123       98         98
- specialist services            100
-  Project Coord. Unit               700
* vehicles & equipment          312                188      183       60        1.1
- specialist services            100                *        *
4. Unallocated                       800
Sub-total          1260-0-                  11,282
D.              i   i c
1. Private Sector Credit                     2300               1120    1157        50        103



- 28 -
TABLE 7A. .PODTT          PR       S
Emergency
Slaughter
Calving Rate       Mortality         & Loss             Sales
Year       SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual   SAR   Actual         SAR   Actual
Percent         Percent         Percent         Cattle No.
1980/Si     53.0      ?        4     ?         0      ?           ?     ?
1981/82     60.0    58.0       4    6.1        0    4.7           ?    1363
1982/83     55.0    56.7       3    8.6        0    3.3           ?      ?
1983/84     70.0    61.7       3    7.5        0    3.7           ?    2529
1984/85      73.0    60.2      3    6.9        0    4.7       4180    3040
1985/86      73.0    72.2      3    3.9        0    1.6       4180    2535
1986/87      73.0    74.4      3    3.4        0    1.2       4180    3459
1987/88      73.0    65.4      3    4.3        0    1.7       4180    4326
1988/a9      73.0    64.1      3    4.7        0    1.6       4180    5040
1989/90      73.0    62.8      3    5.9        0    2.0       4180    5704
TABLE 7B. FINANCIAL RESULT OF SODEPA OPERA&TIO-NS
-         ~~Ge~neral
Total Operations
Directorate       Ranches        Abattoirs       Annual
Year    Mil.   '000    Mil.   '000        Mul,  '000    Mil.  '000
FCFA    USS    FCFA    USS       FCFA   US$    FCFA   US$
1984/85  (197)  (521)  (167)  (442)    (19)    (50)   (383)  1013
1985/86  (252)  (780)   293    907    (192)   (594)   (151)  (467)
1986/87  (245)  (918)    (9)   (34)    140        524    (114)  (427)
1987/88  (249)  (822)  (160)  (528)    331    1092    (108)  (356)



Table 8
29-                                   Page 1 of 4
SECOD LIESTOC  -DE-VEOM TPRJC
TABE  . CMPIANCE WniT CREDI-T COVENlANT
Ievelanment Credit Agreement
2.02                         Fonader stiall employ (a) a pig and poultry a/ specialist;    Full
and (b) a catte production specialist
3.01 lb)                     Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause FONAOER and SODEPA to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the FONADER
Project Agreement and the SOOEPA Project Agreement all
their respective obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FONADER and
SODEPA to perform such obligatlors, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
3.01 Ie)                     The Borrower shall make available to SOOEPA on a grand   Full
basis the funds required for Part B of the Project.
including the proceeds of the Credit allocated tnereto.
3.01 (f)                     The Borrower shall provide the funds to be made available  Full with substantial delay.
pursuant to this Section to MINEL (including the Special    particularly to MINEL's
Mission), FONADER and SODEPA. respectively, in semi-   veterinary and extension
annual advances based on the approved Project budgets   component
of said entities so as to ensure that, at the beginning of
each half Vear. each of them has available sufficient liquid
funds to cover Project expenditures during such half year
(except those expected to be covered through application
to the Association for direct payment to suppliers or
contractors from the Credit Account).
3.02 (a)                     In order to assist MINEL in carrying out Part C of the  Full with substantial delay.
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or othervise secure
the services of tha following specialists and consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association
and whose services shall be made available to the Special
Mission: (il en operations controller; (ii) a veterinarian; and
(iii) a tsetse fly ecologist, an insecticide spraying
consultant and a fixed-wing spraying consultant.



Table 8
_30-                      Page 2 of
F CLAMEQQM
SECONQ LIOES fgCK DEVELOPMEB N  PlJE
T COMPLIAC  WT            COENANTS
Deelgonmnt Credit 6Areement
Ssetlgni                      Subiect                                                ConglDancel
3.02 (b)                      In order to assist MINEL in carrying out parts 0 and E of   IDA agreed with Government
the Project, the Borrower shall employ tha following  In March 1984 and October
specialists and consultants whose qualifications,      1985, respectively, that land
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall  use specialist and training
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association: (i) a  coordinator for PCU were not
livestock training specialist for the Jakiri training center,   longer needed.
iiil a land use planning specialist: (iii) a training
coordinator for the PCU; and (iv) consultants for assisting
in the preparation work under Part E lii) of the Prolect.                           l
3.03 (a)                      The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate    Ful         
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed aut of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Parts C, D and E of the Project against hazards incident ot
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such Insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
3.03 (b)                      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the   Full
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts C, 0 and
E of the Project to be used exclusively for the Project.
3.04                          In respect of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall  Full
cause the proposed work program, including estimates of
the cost thereof, of the Special Mission for each fiscal
year to be furnished to the Association, for review and
approval, not later than three monghs before the
beginning of such fiscal year.
3.05 (a)                      The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly    Full
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement scheHulaes
for Parts C, 0 and E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
.   ..                                         ...............                .   .



31                    ~~~~Table 8
SECONO LIVESTOCK OEVELOPHENT PRO~JEC
TBLE 8. CMPetNC  UIHCREW? COVNANT
Develoosent Credit Aaresment
ComUlance
3.05 (b)                         The Borrower; (f) shall maintain records and procedures    fELL
doquate to record  nd monitor the progress of Parts. C,
D an E of the Project (including their cost and the
beefits to be derived from them), to Identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceed of the Credit
alltcated thereto, and to disclos, their use in said
Parts of the Project; (1i) shalt enabte the
AssoclationSe accredited representatives to visit the
fociltites and construction sites included in said Parts
of tho Project and to examine the good financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto and any
roelvant records and docusants; and (it) shalL furnish
to the Association at regultr intervals alt such
Inforc tion as the Association shall renonably requeot
concerning said parts of the Project, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benafits to be derived from them.
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
thersto and the goods and services financed out of such
_proceeds.__                                                      _   _     _   _   _   _
3.05 Cc)                         Promptly after coqpletion of the Project, but In any       Rone
event not later than six mnths after the Closing Osto
or such later date as my be agreed for this purpose
between tvh Borrower ad  the A"soition, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
of sumc sope and In such detail as the Association
tshlL reasonobly request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost ond the benfits
derived and to be derived frm  It, the performnce by
the Borrower, the Association, FONADER and SODEPA of
their respective obligations under tho Developnent
Credit Agremnt, the FOADER Project Agrement and the
SODEPA Project Agrement, and the acconplishdent of the
purp"o   of the Credit.
3.06                             The Borrowr shall second nine technicaL agents to          Full with 2 years delay
F_ONADER.
3.07                             The Borrower shall take sil action necary to esure         Necesity did not arise
that FONADER has the opportunity to procure, if
ecesary by direct importation from abroad, vaccines,
drugs ad other voterinary supples in the quantities
and at the times required for purposes of Part A t1) of
the Project.
3.08                             The Borrower shalt prepare not later than Jwue 30, 1980    Docusnt subitted in
a dotailed progrm for a more economic use of SOEPA         February 1984 reJected by
ranch resources                                             DA. Anothor report
____________________________  _____________________________________________   subitted bd Septer 1984.



Table 8
32-                             Page 4 of4
REPUBLIC OF CANEROON
SECONDLIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 :~~~(8 101 Im
TABLE 8._COMPLIA    WITH CREDIT COVENA_TS
Section                           S    ef iU
3.09 (a)                          In order to carry out Part C Cf) of the Project, the           Full
Borrower shall: Cii) make available to MINEL veterinary
field service staff and facit (including their cost and
the beefits to be dorived from them), to Identify the
soods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated thereto, nd to disclose their use in
said Parts of the ProJect; (if) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facikities and construction sites included in said Parts
of the Prnject nd to axoeino the goods fifanced out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto and any
reolevant records and documents; and Ciii) shall furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such
Informealon as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning said parts of the Project, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them,
the expnditure of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
thereto and the gorx and services financed out of such
___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ _   oroceeds.
if Included fn Project Agriesment.



Table 9A: Staff inputs (Staffweeks)
7o
TASK                     FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    TOTAL
Preparation                       6.6      -       --      --     --      -- -                   - --                                   6.6
Appraisal                        54.7   33.2       --      --     --      --     --       -      --     --      --     --      --      87.9
Negotiations/Board                  --    4.5      --      --     --      --     --      --      --     --      --     --      --       4.5
Loan Processing (LOP)             1.4   11.5       --      --      -      --     --      --      --     --      --     --      --      12.9
Sib-totat                     62.7   49.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    111.9
Supervision                         -    0.8   11.4   13.2   10.1   22.8   14.4   14.6    9.8    5.5    1.3            --      --    103.9
Project Achinistration (PAD)        --    2.2    2.2    0.4    0.4    1.6               0.2    0.1      --      --      -      --       7.0
Project Comptetion Report          --      --      --     --      --      --     --    0.2       --     --    1.1    1.6    0.9         3.8
Sub-total                      0.0    3.0   13.6   13.6   10.5   24.4   14.4   15.0    9.9    5.5    2.4    1.6    0.9    114.7
TOTAL                         62.7   52.2   13.6   13.6   10.5   24.4   14.4   15.0    9.9    5.5    2.4    1.6    0.9    226.7
October 11. 1991
O F-
0



Tame 9B. W     missions
Staff Isuzt
Specisllation-
stag  of        Date    no. of  Nandays   repre- Perfoiwcee
Project Cycle  No./Yr. Persona in Field  sented I  Ration  Issues raised
Supervision  1 091O 1   1        12         liv    2           Low productivity of SaDEPA ranches. Delays in start of tsetse cpe1pgn. iack of progress in abattoir
conlstructionl.
supervfsion  2  IIfat   1        12         liv    2           Uviability of SWEPA ranches. Negative enwfronental effect of Dieldrin. Delays In abettoir constrction.
Supervision 3  03182   1         14         tiv    2           Leck of progres on KFU credit agrement.
suwervfsion 4  1182   I         11         liv     2          Iradequac  of report on SWEPA rancbes to address issue of viability. Negative envirer entat effect of
DecamLthrin. Lack of coutterpart funding for veterinary conponent. Slow disbursefnt of credit.
supervision 5  03G83   1         14         liv     3          tack of technical support to prodocers by FONADER t HIlEL. Counterpart furding. KEU credit mgreeent.
SUPervision  6  9-1O/83 1        21        lIv      3          tack of progress KPF  credit agrreoent. Butchers boycott of Taounde abattoir. unaeceptabty low perforance of
SWEPA ranches. Poor perforomce of veterinary service. Lack of teadership of Project Coordination Unit.
Suspension of disbiursement due to lack of adequate progress on Goverrtnt coui twents.
Supervision  7  03WM4   2        So         fa liv  3          Hanagement of SWDEPA. Cost recovery on veterinary services. Alternative *ethods of more economical and less
hazardous tsetse control.
Supervision  8  09184   1        t9         liv     2          Expansion and manageft problem of staughterhouses. tate start of tsetse controt campaign. Stricter control of
access to tsetse cleared areas. Inadequate loan adcinistration.
Supervision  9  03/85   1        12         tiv     2          Recruitment of expatriate slaughterhouse manager for Taourde abattoir.  Poor technical supervision of FONADER
loans. Extension of ctosing date by one year.
Supervision 10  11185   2        58         liv     2          tLad temnre problem  in Adawua. Poor ranch management. Reatlocation of credit. Extension of credit by one year.
Supervision 11 4-5/86  1         13         liv     2          Poor mangemeLnt of Douala abattoir. Rising cost of SOOEPA sataries. Poor credit supervision for cattle in
Adamou. Slow procurent and disbursement processing by Govern ent. Lack of supervision of civil w rks
construction for veterinary component. Closing date extension by one year.
supervision 12  10/86   2        20         ec liv  2          overstaffing of SOWEPA. Extension activities of SOGEPA.  Preparation of Livestock Ill. Cancellation of
urcmimitted funds. Extension of closing date by a year.
TOTAL 
TABLE9TI.IEE/CACIt
mI3
0o
CD
t "   - _ 
Iar  Ikawc    wbfia
fl .  wi uah



- 35-
AEX
Page 1 of 2NE
RESPONSE TO _THE BORROWER_'S PERSPECTIV TO THE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.      ~The Bank reviewed Cameroon's comments on the Project
Completion Report. In general, The Bank finds the comments relevant and
to the point. In a number of instances, they strengthen the conclusions
of the PCR. While in some instances critical (in other more
complimentary), the project treats the Bank fairly. As can be expected,
the project does not critically assess MINEPIA's performance. The
Bank's commtents on some of the individual statements are as follows;
Introduction
Para 1.            The Bank agrees with the Project's substantial impact
on poultry production and the harmful effect of the African Swine Fever
on pork production. To blame the project's lesser impact in beef
production on the occurrence of Rinderpest is too easy, as is later
acknowledged in para S. In the beef sector, there are a lot of other
factors which have affected project performance.
Para 2.            To blame the poor performance of the extension
component on inappropriate institutional arrangements, again is too
easy. The main extension effort was to be with MINEPIA, through its
Livestock Service, which is the appropriate service to do extension.
The livestock Service part never came off the ground, mainly because of
bureaucratic inertia at MINEPIA. The infrastructure was only finished
at project completionut (para 3). The extension effort with SODEPA and
FONADER wag only for very specific and limited areass (i) with SODEPA to
provide a back-up service for the livestock farmers who purchased stock
from the SODEPA ranches; and (ii) with FONADER to prepare the loan
applications of a limited number of farmers to be covered under the
project's credit program.
FONADER
Par 3-7.           The Bank agrees that the very late signature of the
co-financing agreement with FONADER was one of the main factors
affecting the delay, and that the loan repayment (at about 75-80
percent) was the beat ever in FONADER. The idea that the late arrival
of the TA affected ,'--~raining was not correct. The FONADER extension
staff became only avai&able in 1984, after the Bank threatened to cancel
the project; the TA was then already sur glace on the Adamaoua and was
recruited shortly afterwards in the NW province.
SODEPA
Para 8-9.          The Bank agrees with the very good performance of the
slaughterhouse component and the role of the Bank in improving their
efficLency. This was the first necessity. Moreover, with the reference
in the PCR about the need to give the slaughterhouse mactagemsnt now the
authority to net the fee levels. Present efficiency is good and cannot
be expected to be improved much more (it approaches the outputs
registered in Europe) and with escalating energy, water and labor costs,
price increases are necessary.
Para 10.           The main problem with the SODEPA ranches is that they
are not economical and financially viable, because ranching in Africa,
and certainly parastatal ranching, is not viable. This has been
acknowledged by all subsequent Bank supervision missions, and they have-
-contrary to Cameroon's comments--be very consistent in advising



ANNEX
- 36 -                         gae2o
Government to sell these ranches or their assets to the private sector.
As government absolutely refused to sell those ranches, the changes
proposed (para 10, lv) were all second best solutions. The use of the
N'dokayO ranch as fattening ranch (the main inconsistency alluded to in
10 iv) had boen discussed during the appraisal, and was only implemented
after a study, requested in the DCA was carried out (with about three
years delay) by lovernment.
Para 11.          See the previous comments on extension in SODEPA.
Veterinary Services
Para 13.          The location and functions of the new veterinary
infrastructure was indeed not well established during appraisal. As
since appraisal the views and policies changed in the Bank (more
emphasis on private--producer led--veterinary services, not requiring
this infrastructure), several supervision missions proposed to drop this
component. Howaver, the coordinator spent considerable time on drawing
up the appropriate plans (see para 19), and these plans were strongly
supported by the Minister personallye who could not be convinced to drop
the component. The very poor implementation, lack of supervision and
tha duplication of facilities was thus clearly a weakness of the
Borrower.
Coordination Unit
Para 19-21.       As far as it can be remembered, the Coordination Unit
was supposed to carry out also the studies, and the Unit was certainly
expected to do the M 6 E. The Bank therefore did not object against the
coordinator's increasing involvement in studies, as this was a
legitimate task. Though, the Bank could have insisted more on the
establishment of a good H 6 E system. However, the main reason for the
ineffectiveneso of the Coordlnatlng Unit, especially in the first three
years of project implementatlon, was the lack of interest and the
bureaucratic inertia of MINEPIA ln implementing the project and the
incapability of the coordinator-TA during that period to bring the
parties together. An outline for the preparation of PCR's was given to
the Coordinator in an early stage (before Project Completion), however
no PCR was produced. The criticism on the Bank is thus not correct.
The delay referred to might concern the revised PCR format, which was
announced, but probably not directly forwarded to the Coordinator.
The Bank's Performance
Para 22-26.       The performance of the Bank is positLvely rated in the
Government's document, with some remarks on the consistency and the lack
of attention to Lntra-institutional aspects. However, unlike the
impression given in the Government's document, the supervision was
consistent. During the project implementation period, only two tasks
managers were involved, the flrst one also being involved in the
appraisal. Between these two task managers there was a good consistency
of views.
The Bank agrees that the intra-instLtutional aspects dld not
get enough attention Ln the normal supervision mLssions of thLe project.
However, these Lesuoe of procurement authority etc. were transcendlng a
normal supervision mission and were already addressed on a more central
levOl among others through Structural Adjustment Operations towards
project completLon. IndLvidual interventLons would thus have been of
limLted value.



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NG E       A    (A0D    ?                                                            KE CA
~~  S/DAN   o,    0~~~~0.A'0,AOO~1;1 00:           1*A,
f                                                            N       G         E                           N AAoAN'0,A.NA
K        .~ .~CAMEROONN                -
AT/ANY/C              CO   
OCFANV              "       '- 
_______________  '--'--0--li~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CAME ROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                       .--
LOCATION   OF  PROJECT  ACTIVITIES                                                                          Y 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
40$ 
000
N  IG   E  RI A                        obo.                                                 '0
Nk-hR          ~         A0                                 
/4    hon,    5.D3                                                                          i(    11
lp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              00 0,0oON'
RAMND
q.                                                                    V.%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ' ..
.NS.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
.0'b                                                                  I            0                    .00    00
3N'O
~-_,EQuATORIAt                                                                    0/
GUINEAduoo
ArlANVTIC (0 
o    OC'EANV                                                       G   A   B 0   NC   0                       N   G4
pg~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - EQUATORIAL GUINEA                             CAB0N                   S          E.O                       Qo~ 



