Document of                   FIUE  COI""
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2748-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 2, 1980
This document has a reshticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CANEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                       -             CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000                 =            US$4.8
CFAF 1,000,000             =             FF 4,762
1/ Floating Exchange Late.
ABBREVIATIONS
CZV       -    Centre Zootechnique et Veterinaire
FONADER   -    Fonds National de D1veloppement Rural
(National Fund for ]ural Development)
FRG       -    Federal Republic of Germany
MINEL     -    Ministere de l'Elevage et des Industries Animales
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
SODEPA    -    Societe de D6veloppement et d'Exploitation
des Productions Animlales
FISCAL YEAR
July 1L - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIMARY
Borrower:              United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:           FONADER/SODEPA/MINEL
Amount:                US$16.0 million IDA Credit
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:       US$9.1 million of the proceeds of the proposed IDA
credit would be relent to FONADER--Cameroon's National
Fund for Rural Development--for 18 years, including
a 4-year grace period, at an interest rate of 5 percent
per year. Onlending terms to sub-borrowers vary
from three to ten years, including one to four years of
grace, at interest rates varying from 8 to 10 percent
per year. FONADER's weighted average on-lending rate
would be 9.7 percent per year.
Project Description:  The proposed project, to be implemented over a four-
year period, would:
(i) provide credit for investment and working capital
through FONADER: for producers in the northwestern and
southern coastal zones for pig breeding and fattening
(200 loans), broiler production (100 loans), egg and
cockerel production (100 loans), and cattle production
on small mixed farms (500 loans); for private cattle
breeding and fattening ranches in the tsetse cleared
areas of the Adamaoua Plateau (100 loans), Dumbo and
Ndokayo (40 loans) and small ranches in the North-West
Province (30 loans); and for small-scale agricultural-
ists (800 producers in 40 groups) in production lines
consistent with land use plans for the northeast part of
the tsetse cleared zone;
(ii) complete the eradication of tsetse flies in the target
area under the first project (800 ha) by clearing
276,000 ha in addition to the 524,000 ha already
cleared; and implement a second program covering about
163,000 ha, in order to return 1.3 million ha of grass-
land to traditional producers at full program comple-
tion, and prevent the infestation of a further 900.000
ha which are at present jeopardized;
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iii)  strengthen MINEL's veterinary field services to ensure
adequate disease prevention and control;
(iv) strengthen SODEPA by extending technical assistance
contracts for staff to complete the construction of
and manage the two slaughterhouses, and for a finan-
cial controller to improve SODEPA's financial control
capacity; by providing for a ranch management specialist;
and by the provision of civil works, equipment and
vehicles for SODEPA's ranches and slaughterhouses;
(v)  improve the training program for NfINEL veterinary
field service staff, SODEPA agents in slaughterhouse
management and financial operations, FONADER staff in
supervision of credit, and MINEL staff in methods of
tsetse eradication, surveying and perimeter maintenance;
(vi)  establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under MINEL
with overall responsibilities for project activities
headed by a Project Coordinator; and
(vii) provide funds for the preparation of a possible follow-
up project.
Benefits and Risks:   The project vwould assist the second phase of the
Government's long-term "Meat Plan" aimed at increasing
the supply of meat for domestic consumption and improv-
ing the econcmic well-being of the livestock producers
who would receive credit, use improved animal health and
husbandry services and graze their animals in areas
freed of tsetse flies. Additional annual meat marketed
at full development after 8 years would be about 4,600
tons, plus egg and milk. Other benefits would include
the strengthening of government institutions responsible
for administration and policy making in the livestock
sector. The proposed project has an overall managerial
risk with regard to implementation and specific risks
for particular components. To help reduce the risk of
less than satisfactory overall project management, a
central Project Coordination Unit will be established
to coordinate, monitor and evaluate all project activi-
ties. The success of the credit program will depend
on adequate appraisal and supervision of sub-loans



- iii -
on the part of FONADER; credit specialists to be
recruited internationally will assist in developing
improved procedures and staff training in this area.
The risk of the tsetse eradication program is that
reinfestation of areas already cleared would occur as a
result of incomplete eradication efforts and poor
maintenance of protection barriers. Precautionary
measures such as frequent resurveying and supplementary
spraying in addition to close monitoring of animals
re-entering the zone have been envisaged to minimize
this risk. Finally, improved and better endowed veteri-
nary field services should help minimize the risk of
insufficient or delayed upgrading of the health status
of animals, which would result in lower than anticipated
meat production and supply.



- iv -
Estimated Costs:
Foreign as
US$ million                   % of
Foreign   Local   Total           Total
FONADER                                   3.5       5.6      9.1           38
SODEPA                                    2.8       1.8     4.6            61
MINEL                                    12.4       4.2    16.6            75
Total base cost                     18.7      11.6    30.3            62
Physical contingencies               1.3       1.3      2.6           50
Price contingencies                  3.6       3.4      7.0           51
Total cost (including taxes)        23.6      16.3    39.9            59
Taxes                                 -        3.9      3.9            _
Total cost (net of taxes)          23.6      12.4    36.0            66
Financing Plan:                              US$ million
Foreign   Local   Total
IDA                                15.2       0.8    16.0
FRG                                 8.4       0.6      9.0
Government                          -        12.6    12.6
Ranchers/Farmers                    -         2.3      2.3
23.6      16.3    39.9
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                 3.6      4.2      4.1     3.5      0.6
Cumulative             3.6      7.8    11.9    15.4    16.0
Rate of Return: 16 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 2690-CM, dated March 18, 1980.
Maps: IBRD 14521R - Location of project activities.
IBRD 14522R - Tsetse fly eradication project area.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CA-IEROON FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of
US$16.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Livestock
Development Project. The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) would participate
in the financing of the project with a grant of US$1 million equivalent and a
loan of US$8 million equivalent. The FRG loan will be on terms similar to
IDA's.
PART I - THE ECONOMfY 1/
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 1798-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978.
Its principal findings and conclusions, updated by missions that visited
Cameroon in April and June 1979, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diversified countries with a wide
range of ecological conditions, ethnic groups and cultures. Cameroon was a
federation until the United Republic, which unified the anglophone western and
francophone eastern parts of the country, was established in 1972. The
Government has concentrated on the establishment and maintenance of national
unity between the eastern and relatively small western parts of the country
and between the sahelian zone in the north with Miuslim traditions and the
southern tropical regions.
4.        Cameroon has a population of 7.9 million (1978) and covers an
area of 475,000 km2. The main opportunities for development lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for export. Soils and climatic condi-
tions permit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the southeast contains
large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential for
livestock development. Cameroon became an oil producer and exported nearly
250,000 tons of crude petroleum in 1978. Beginning in 1979, crude oil exports
reached a rate of about 270,000 tons every two months or 1.6 million tons per
year. Trade, transportation and transit services are other important economic
activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast areas of
1/   This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
second HEVECAM rubber project which was approved by the Executive Direc-
tors on January 15, 1980 (Report No. P-2672-CM dated December 21, 1979).



- 2-
low population density; furthermore, the country's transport facilities also
serve landlocked Chad. As a result, a large port and adequate inland trans-
portation infrastructure are essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
5.        GDP growth was nearly 4.5 percent per year during both the Second
Five Year Plan (1966-71) and the Third Plan (1971-76), and accelerated to 7.9
percent during 1977/78, the first two years of the Fourth Plan. Population
growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent per year in the 1960s, about 1.9
percent until the mid-1970s and about 2.3 percent from 1975 to 1980. Per
capita GNP reached about US$460 in 1978. 1/
6.        Most agricultural crops, livestock, fishing and forestry experienced
high growth rates during 1966-71 thanks to favorable supply and demand condi-
tions including high producer prices, high domestic income growth and rapid
economic expansion abroad. Lower agricultural growth during 1971-76 was due
in part to the decrease in output of two major commercial crops, cocoa and
arabica coffee. Important factors in this decline were the decline in rela-
tive competitiveness of producer pr:ices with food cash crop prices and the
termination of the foreign supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica
coffee. The decline in cocoa and arabica coffee output was not fully offset
by growth in other important commercial crops including cotton, rubber, and
oil palm. Growth in forestry production dropped during 1971-76 because of
reduced Western European demand and some transportation bottlenecks.
7.       1Manufacturing and mining grew at about 10 percent per year during
1966-71 mainly on account of the rapid development of import substitution
industries, particularly manufactured consumer goods. The lower manu-
facturing growth experienced during 1971-76 was due to the slowdown in new
import substitution activities and to slower income growth because of the
deteriorating terms of trade.
8.        Since 1976, Cameroon experienced rapid growth in most major sectors.
Agricultural growth was helped by recovery in cocoa production as farmers
responded to higher producer prices and in forestry production. The construc-
tion industry grew by 15 percent per year during 1977/78 as large investments
were undertaken for the implementation of the plan. The rapid increase in
income and the high rate of economic activities led to substantial growth in
most other sectors particularly food crops, trade, transport and other
services.
Investment and Savings
9..       During the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate, in-
cluding increase in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent
1/   This reflects the revisions incorporated in the new series of national
income statistics compiled by the Government with the assistance of the
UN Economic Commission for Africa.



-3-
of GDP. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during
this period. During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth,
the investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP. Gross domestic savings
and gross national savings rose to 16.4 percent and 13.9 percent of GDP, but
debt service increased by 60 percent from a small base. External resources
therefore continued to finance about one-third of total investment during this
period. The higher savings rate in a period of slow output growth was made
possible by a drastic reduction in the real growth of consumption, particu-
larly private consumption, to less than 2 percent per annum. One of the
prices paid for the substantial improvement in savings during the Third Plan
was, however, a limitation on farmers' earnings in tree crops, providing
insufficient incentives for farmers to obtain more output from the existing
trees and to make new plantings to maintain and expand production capacity --
a situation that has serious implications for the longer term future of these
crops. The maintenance of a high investment rate during this period was
offset by a decline in the efficiency of investment. Some reduction in
capital productivity was attributable to projects, such as in oil exploration
and transport infrastructure, which would lead to production increases only a
number of years later, and social infrastructure investments, which would
improve welfare but have a limited impact on output. During 1977/78, the
investment rate reached an average of 22.8 percent of GDP. Due largely to the
record cocoa and coffee export prices, gross domestic savings and gross
national savings increased further to 19.9 and 19 percent respectively of GDP.
As a result, external resources financed only about one-fourth of total
investment during these two years.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
10.       Budgetary revenue amounted to about 17 percent of GDP during each
of the past two plan periods, respectively, while public savings after debt
service as a percentage of total public investment declined from about 39
percent in 1966-71 to about 36 percent in 1971-76. During 1977/78, the share
of budgetary revenue in GDP increased to an average of 19.4 percent. The
balance of payments did not become a problem until 1974-76. Imports increased
rapidly in 1975 and 1976 as a result of world-wide inflation and heavy public
development expenditure, especially in capital goods, and the decline in
agricultural exports, particularly exports of cocoa and timber, resulted in
sizeable current account deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits
was financed by net capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of inter-
national reserves also took place in 1975. Therefore, net official inter-
national reserves decreased from more than two months of imports in 1974 to
less than one month in 1975. In 1977-79, exports rose substantially (at an
average annual rate of 21 percent) but imports also increased (annual average
rate of 23 percent) because of economic recovery and expanded investment.
Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in 1976-79, in part by the
use of IMF credit (Oil Facility and Compensatory Financing in 1976), but net
official international reserves continued to be less than one month of imports
at mid-1979. This was a low level by international standards but still
acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African Monetary
Union.



- 4-
Development Issues and Prospects
13.       Cameroon's main medium- and long-term potential lies in the develop-
ment of a diversified agricultural sector relying upon export crop production
to generate foreign exchange and domestic food crop production to meet the
needs of a growing urban population. Realizing this potential depends upon an
appropriate mix of public intervention and policy measures aiming at stimulat-
ing private initiative. Factors that further complicate the agricultural
development effort in Cameroon are the dispersion of its main economic and
population centers, its regional and institutional diversity, the competition
between export and cash food crops for the dwindling agricultural labor in
some parts of the country, the dependence of a substantial part of public
revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee, and the limited availability of
skilled agricultural agents and administrators. Through its technical assis-
tance and education projects and through its normal project work, the Bank is
supporting Cameroon's effort in manpower training and development in the
agricultural services, as well as in other sectors. In industry the Govern-
ment has moved to channel more financial resources for investment directly
through the public sector, in addition to the indirect support provided by tax
incentives and other measures, which have been in existence for many years.
The Government has actively participated in a Bank study of the manufacturing
sector whose results will help to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to
develop existing as well as new industrial activities.
12.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth during 1979-81
is quite favorable. It is based on the maintenance of cocoa output at about
110,000 tons; recovery of robusta coffee; continuing expansion for arabica
coffee; increased production of most other commercial and food crops, as well
as of livestock; and expansion of commercial forestry production. Growth of
industrial production is expected to derive from existing and expanded manu-
facturing facilities (particularly for food, beverages and construction
materials), some new industrial projects, as well as from crude oil and new
mining ventures. Given the stepped-up production and investment activities, a
high growth rate is expected also for construction and services.
13.       Long-term growth could be somewhat constrained by a worsening of the
terms of trade, which will make it difficult to sustain in ensuing years the
high investment rate planned for the 1976-81 period, and by the need for
prudent debt management to ensure the country's long-term borrowing capacity.
Growth prospects will be greatly influenced by the extent to which Cameroon
succeeds in the difficult task of maintaining and expanding the country's main
traditional export crops, and the large-scale development of still unexploited
forestry resources. Results of studies on the forestry potential, forestry
sector development policy, investment plans and transport requirements, many
of which are part of Bank projects, will support the latter development. In
addition, there are still uncertain indications for the exploitation of iron
ore, but with heavy investment requirements and long lead times to establish
commerciall> viab!e export operations, production could probably not begin
until the early 1990s.



-5-
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
14.       Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Development
Plan. Private investment is encouraged, under Government guidelines, to
expand production capacity in agriculture, forestry, mining and manufac-
turing.  A part of financing of private investment activities, however,
will be publicly guaranteed borrowing. Planned investment of some US$3.1
billion (in 1974/75 prices) is about 80 percent higher in real terms than the
estimated level achieved during the last Plan period and almost triple previ-
ous Plan expenditures in nominal terms. Public investment is expected to
account for 73 percent of total investment. However, the efficiency of public
investment in Cameroon is very much dependent on national institutional and
managerial capabilities; and furthermore the level of investment in the future
needs to be adapted carefully (a) to other claims on available resources to
maintain the pace of economic activity, such as adequate producer prices to
give farmers incentives for production and new plantings, as well as prudent
financial policies to take account of (b) the heavy dependence of public
revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee export prices; (c) the rise in import
prices, which is expected to continue; and (d) the requirement to keep supple-
mentary borrowing on commercial terms at prudent levels to maintain Cameroon s
long-term capacity to borrow.
External Borrowing, Creditworthiness, and Performance
15.       In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (July 1976 - June
1978), with the favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
financed more than half of total public investment. However, in the last
three years (July 1978 - June 1981), public savings after debt service are
not expected to finance as high a share of total public investment and
Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external financing for the
bulk of its public investment. Foreign official lenders should thus continue
to finance a high proportion of total project costs of externally financed
projects, including local costs in appropriate cases. Net disbursements on
public medium- and long-term loans during the first two years of the Fourth
Plan were about US$240 million per year. During the last three years, net
inflows from disbursements on public external loans are projected at US$380
million per year, while the required level during the Fifth Plan is of the
order of US$530 million per year. Such levels of disbursements will require
new public loan commitments of about US$470 million per year during 1978-1981
as compared with the average of US$400 million during the first two years of
the Fourth Plan, and new commitments of US$610 million per year during the
Fifth Plan. The share of private financing in new commitments would remain
substantial--some 36-38 percent of total commitments, in view of the likely
availability of financing from official sources--although not as high as
during 1976-1978 (45 percent). However, the terms of financing on borrowing
from official sources can on average be expected to harden. Consequently,
debt service payments will continue to build up quite rapidly. During this
period, Cameroon's export prospects and world market prices are reasonably
favorable. The debt service ratio, which was 7.5 percent in 1978, is pro-
jected to reach 12 percent in 1981 and 16 percent in 1986. These export
prospects depend to a substantial extent on a considerably optimistic outlook
for timber production and export, but the assumptions for the oil sector could



-6-
be on the conservative side. Cameroon is thus judged to be creditworthy
for Bank financing on the basis of its ability to maintain productivity in
the utilization of the country's resources and its favorable potential to
further diversify the economy. However, in view of the country's record
of performance as well as the need to maintain debt service within the range
mentioned above, foreign donors should be prepared to provide some 50 percent
of public capital assistance on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$524
million and cover 33 projects: fifteen in agriculture, eleven in trans-
portation, three in education, two in public utilities, one small- and medium-
scale enterprises project, and one technical assistance project. Transport
represents the largest share (49 percent) of past commitments, followed by
agriculture (37 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of January 31, 1980, and includes notes on ongoing proj-
ects. Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in the
execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness to
collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
17.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricuiltural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and enhance the efficiency of Cameroon's institu-
tions.
18.       The Government rightly attaches priority to the balanced regional
development of agricultural resources, and to the improvement of conditions
in the rural sector parallel with prcmotion of plantation agriculture, in-
cluding smallholder schemes. Bank Group assistance to Cameroon in agriculture
is designed to support these policy objectives. The Bank helped the Govern-
ment create an effective and well-managed plantation sector by financing oil
palm and rubber plantations in the south and west. The first rubber project
approved in 1975 is completed and the second project approved by the Board in
January 1980 will help further the development of the southwest coastal
region. The second SOCAPALM and CAMDEV projects are follow-up operations to
successful oil palm and rubber projects in the western coastal regions. At
the same time the Bank has assisted, with two SEMRY projects, in promoting
smallholder rice irrigation in the north. The ongoing cocoa project is aimed
at modernizing smallholder cocoa growing and raising rural productivity in
areas south and west of Yaounde. Rural development projects in populated but
poor regions are being established with the assistance of the Bank. The
Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project is financing studies and trial
activities to establish whether a full-scale rural development program can be
launched. The ZAPI-East Integrated Rural Development Project supports ZAPI's
ongoing integrated rural development activities as well as an expansion of



-7-
ZAPI's activities in eastern Cameroon. The Western Highlands Rural Development
Project provides a package of inputs, techniques and infrastructure aimed at
improving productivity for the agricultural economy of the western part of the
country. The Rural Development Fund Project is designed to help the Government
establish the machinery for processing and implementing small-scale rural
development schemes - initially in the north. The objective of a rural
development project that is proposed for the northern region will be to
establish planning and coordination capabilities at the provincial level, as
well as to finance crop diversification, reforestation, small-scale irrigation
and rural water supply. The Government's objectives in its rural development
policies are to improve income distribution, to achieve a better balance in
regional development and to promote essential foodstuff production. The Bank
Group intends to increase lending for agriculture to support these efforts.
As a corollary, the second phase of a livestock development program which
began in 1974 is presented in this report and would comprise continued tsetse
eradication, credit and training schemes for traditional herdsmen and farmers,
and refurbished veterinary field services to remove constraints on animal
productivity.
19.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided develop-
ment of adequate transport facilities. The First and Second Highway Projects
were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system.
The latter project encountered severe cost overruns which were partly alle-
viated by a Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976 as well as by the
elimination of the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil section from the
project. This section is being financed under the third Highway project. A
Feeder Roads Project approved in 1977 will establish institutions for feeder
road administration and maintenance in addition to providing the necessary
resources for a feeder road program to support high priority agricultural/
rural development projects. The Fourth Highway Project which became effective
in November 1979, will concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilitation and
includes funds for feasibility studies for the construction of a two-lane
heavy duty road between Yaounde and Douala. The Fourth Railway Project, which
was signed in August 1979, will help finance the new.Douala marshalling yard,
maintenance facilities at Yaounde, railway equlpment, and technical assistance
for improvements in operations, management and training. Given projected
traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments in the transport
sector, substantial capital outlays are still necessary - particularly for the
expansion of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and
IDA credit, and for related facilities such as those being financed by the
Fourth Railway Project. Future road investments could possibly include
financing of strategic international access routes, but should place greater
emphasis on road maintenance and on developing the network of forestry, feeder
and farm access roads.
20.       In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project,
approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship and
a second project is under preparation. A Third Education Project, approved
in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education and training.
The Second Water Supply Project, signed in December 1979, will provide water



-8-
to 13 secondary centers, reinforce and expand water supply systems in Douala
and Yaounde, and includes financing for sewerage and drainage master plan
studies for these two cities. At the same time an urban project is being
prepared which is designed to upgrade several low-income settlements and
develop sites and services in Douala and Yaounde.
21.       All these projects include, as needed, training, technical assis-
tance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June
1977 is helping to support Government services in several key Ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing and a
second project is in preparation. To help achieve the Government's priorities,
the Bank's lending strategy will continue to emphasize strengthening the
institutional framework, particularly sector planning, and project preparation
and implementation in transportation and rural and urban development. The
Bank will continue to assist the Government in developing its policies toward
newer sectors of activity and will begin to prepare an energy sector study in
this fiscal year. The Bank carried out a study of the industrial sector and,
in conjunction with the International Telecommunications Union, a telecom-
munications sector study and has also conducted field studies for a forestry
sector survey. Projects were tentatively identified from these investiga-
tions.
22.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
official development assistance to-Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million
a year. While at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were
grants, the proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part of external
assistance was provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and
the productive sectors. The European Development Fund and European Investment
Bank directed their lending mainly to agriculture, with infrastructure next in
magnitude. Bank and IDA disbursements were small during this period. Since
1972 overall disbursements of foreign aid increased to about US$90 million per
year with one-fifth as grants. The Bank and IDA's share of these inflows
amounted to about 23 percent and lending to Cameroon has been closely coordi-
nated with other donors; in 15 of our 33 projects, joint or parallel co-
financing arrangements have been made and co-financing for several future
projects is being actively sought.
23.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1978,
amounted to US$1,153.4 million and is projected to reach US$3.1 billion in
1983. By 1985, annual foreign aid disbursements may amount to over US$500
million. At end-1978, IBRD loans accounted for 8.9 percent of Cameroon's
public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 13 percent of its public debt
er-vice.  IDA credits accounted for 9.3 percent of public debt outstanding and
5.S percellt of public debt service.  The Bank and IDA are expected to account
for about 20 percent of total public debt and 11 percent of public debt
service in 1985.
24.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$380,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders in.to a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,



-9-
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of about US$800,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM), which is currently the second largest rubber producer in Cameroon.
The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the
domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation of domestic
shareholders in the estate. In November 1977, the Board approved a third
operation, an investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a promo-
tional company for maize development. No commitment has yet been made on this
investment since the original technical partner has been replaced and major
changes have been made in the arrangements expected earlier. The Board
approved a second equity investment of US$390,000 equivalent in SAFACAM in
September 1978. The increased capitalization is required to finance the
construction of a palm oil pressing mill. Cameroonian participation again
increased with this operation. The Societe Nationale d'Investissement, a
national development bank, is doubling its share in SAFACAM. In April 1979,
the Board approved an IFC investment of US$7.93 million consisting of US$7
million loan and US$0.93 million equivalent in equity in a Cameroonian alumi-
num producing company, ALUCAM, to help expand the company's production capac-
ity. Annex II contains a summary statement of IFC investments in the country
as of January 31, 1980. Total commitments currently held by IFC in Cameroon
amount to US$9.28 million of which US$7.00 million represent a loan and
US$2.28 million equity participations.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
25.       Agriculture plays an important role in the economy of Cameroon.  It
contributes about 40 percent of GNP, 70 percent of the country's export
earnings and employs about 74 percent of the total labor force. Moreover, it
provides a livelihood to about three-quarters of the total population of
Cameroon. Within this sector, recorded livestock production (cattle, swine
and poultry) accounts for about 9 percent of agricultural output. Close to 90
percent of the agricultural land is grazing land. Livestock production
constitutes the main economic activity of the population living in the Adam-
aoua Plateau and the northern and north-western parts of the country. Rural
per capita incomes vary considerably between regions, the main distinction
being between the forested areas in the south, US$90-160, and the northern
savannah areas, US$70-90, where income is less than a third of the national
average.
26.       The livestock population comprises about 3 million cattle, 4 million
sheep and goats, 0.9 million pigs and about 10 million poultry. About 75
percent of the cattle are kept in the northern zone and on the Adamaoua
Plateau, while pigs and poultry are concentrated in the southern and western



- 10 -
zones. The productivity of the herds is low, with annual off-take rates of
10 percent for cattle, 30 percent for sheep and goats, 60 percent for pigs
and about 100 percent for poultry, while annual growth rates are 2 percent for
cattle, 3 percent for sheep and goats, and 5 percent for pigs and poultry.
Total annual meat production is currently about 105,000 tons and estimated
meat consumption per capita is about 21 kg in urban centers compared to 11.5
kg for rural dwellers. Productivity is constrained primarily by inadequate
feeding, poor animal health and the widespread use of traditional but ineffi-
cient livestock raising systems.
27.       A major objective of the First Livestock Project (Loan 983-CM), was
to explore the possibility of establishing settled ranches on leased land.
It was realized that settled ranches would enable the major constraints such
as feed shortage, uncontrolled burning, disease and the need to practice
transhumance to be overcome.  The provision of credit under the first project
encouraged some herdsmen to settle on ranches of up to 1,000 ha each.
Although these ranches have not been operating for sufficiently long periods
to fully assess their technical performance, results to date are most
encouraging and indicate that settLement is proving successful in solving the
main problems that restrict production. However, a general health hazard
continues to exist and a major constraint on animal productivity in the
Adamaoua Plateau is trypanosomiasis--a disease transmitted by tsetse flies.
Tsetse fly infestations have a dual effect in retarding productivity--they
spread disease and force migration from infested areas thereby eventually
over-crowding tsetse free areas. This situation is presently aggravated in
the Adamaoua Plateau by a southeast:ward advance of these flies (predominantly
Glossina morsitans) and the further degradation of available grazing grounds.
28.       The main constraint on pig production is the inefficiency of
the breeds used, and the scarcity of balanced feeds and veterinary attention.
Traditional units are small--only one or two breeding pigs per producer,
producing less than six piglets per sow per year. The small amount of quality
pork that is produced comes from fattening improved breeds, kept under con-
fined modern conditions. The producers doing this supply the modern market
for special cuts of pork in the main cities of Douala and Yaounde. FONADER is
assisting this sector in its effort to modernize through the provision of
credit. However, because of the limited managerial experience of producers,
efforts are being made to keep the scale of operations within bounds
that are likely to be successful, and to offer as much technical advice as
possible. Almost all rural families keep fowl for house consumption and
occasional marketing. Attempts have been made to improve the productivity if
these flocks through the introduction of high performance breeding stock, but
the traditional production system is not commercially competitive. A rela-
tively few large-scale poultry producers, located near Yaounde and Douala, use
imported modern equipment and day-old chicks, and serve the modern urban
market on a regular basis. However, the management requirements and health
risks of these enterprises with flocks of up to 10,000 birds are very high.
An intermediate technology, using predominantly locally-produced inputs is
technically feasible and would be competitive in providing fowl and eggs to
traditional markets.



- 11 -
Institutions Serving Livestock Development
29.       Overall responsibility for the development of the livestock sector
rests with the IMinistry of Animal Breeding and Industries (MINEL). In addi-
tion to policy and planning functions performed in Yaounde, NINEL is respon-
sible for animal production, veterinary field services and the technical
training of agents in the veterinary field service. MINEL also operates
several livestock production stations whose role is to provide production
inputs to the traditional sector. These stations, however, currently produce
below capacity and frequently supply substandard products, the main difficulty
being lack of efficient management. Other donors are currently in the process
of aiding the production stations. MIINEL also has overall responsibility for
the Special Mission for the Eradication of Glossines, which was organized in
1974 under the first Livestock Development Project for the tsetse eradication
campaign in the Adamaoua Plateau.
30.       Two other major specialized agencies outside the direct control of
MINEL serve the livestock sector. First, the Societe de Developpement et
d'Exploitation des Productions Animales (SODEPA), created in 1974 in connec-
tion with the First Livestock Development Project as.a state-owned company, is
responsible for the establishment and management of three large state cattle
ranches and two slaughterhouses. In addition, it was to provide supporting
services for other agencies in the livestock industry, such as the technical
supervision of credit extended to the traditional sector and the training of
extension agents, herdsmen and farmers, but these objectives were not fully
met. Second, the Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER) was
created in 1973 before the inception of the First Livestock Development
Project with the dual role of (a) providing credit to farmers and groups of
farmers, and (b) appraising, financing and supervising a wide variety of rural
development projects. FONADER was the administrative agency for livestock
credit under the First Livestock Development Project and provided funds for
the establishment of private cattle fattening ranches and for the incorpora-
tion of livestock on crop farms. Government is taking steps to transform
FONADER into an agricultural development bank which is scheduled to be com-
pleted by July 1980.
Livestock Development Strategy
31.       The Government's livestock development policy (the "Meat Plan")
evolved simultaneously with the preparation of the First Livestock Development
Project which became effective in 1974. This policy was designed to increase
local meat supply for domestic consumption through improvements in the tradi-
tional sector and the development of parastatal ranches. In line with these
policies, the Bank's first livestock project in Cameroon was designed to: (i)
assist herdsmen and farmers to increase productivity by providing credit for
the development of settled ranches and beef fattening enterprises; (ii)
establish three government ranches of 20,000 ha each, to demonstrate new
production systems and provide good quality breeding and fattening stock to
the traditional sector; (iii) construct two new slaughterhouses and provide
credit to private butchers; (iv) eradicate tsetse flies from a 800,000 ha
tract of potential pasture land in the Adamaoua Plateau; and (v) provide



- 12 -
technical assistance for the development of an embryonic extension service and
training for slaughterhouse and credit managers.
32.       It was recognized that the project would be innovative, involving
technical risks. Moreover, since it was the first Bank assisted livestock
project in Cameroon and only the fourth Cameroon agricultural project financed
by the Bank, a potential management risk existed. Therefore, the project was
designed to be, in effect, a large scale pilot project, testing implementation
alternatives and production systems whose relative efficiencies would be
evaluated and used as a basis for follow-up projects. This pilot approach
was particularly evident in the agreement to test parastatal ranching on a
restricted scale (on three ranches compared with six originally proposed
in the preparation report), and to test the feasibility of extending credit
for livestock production to private graziers and small mixed-crop farmers.
33.       The credit program administered by FONADER was fully subscribed,
with loan applications considerably exceeding estimates. On-farm investments
followed appraisal estimates closely, and repayment of annual installments was
close to 100 percent, demonstrating the feasibility of Government's prime
objective of encouraging production in the traditional sector. Credit admin-
istration proved to be overly centralized, however, resulting in delays in
disbursing loan funds, and inadequate sub-loan appraisal. Nonetheless, the
credit program as a whole was adequately completed, with virtually no cost
overruns. A reorganization study recently carried out by Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole of France recommended the introduction of a new cost account-
ing system which FONADER is now implementing. FONADER management has indi-
cated that the system would be operational by July 1980. The second project
would also provide for measures to improve the technical supervision of
sub-borrowers.
34.       The three tsetse eradication campaigns, 1976/77, 1977/78 and 1978/79,
.succeeded in clearing about 524,000 ha or about two-thirds of the original
800,000 ha target. Infestations proved to be more dense and geographically
widespread than originally foreseen, necessitating a heavier spraying effort.
Part of the fly-freed zone is now being resettled; moreover, the technical
feasibility of the eradication program was established. The Special Mission
for the Eradication of Glossines, located in the project area, demonstrated
competence in the field work despite administrative and financial difficulties
arising from remote administration by MINEL in Yaounde. Delays in the provi-
sion of operating funds and deliveries of sprays and other crucial inputs
impaired the mission's day-to-day operations.  To minimize these problems
under the proposed second project, the Government has agreed that MINEL would
establish a new system for channelling funds and materials to the Special Mis-
sion in the field (Section 3.01 (f)_of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
35.       Construction of the two slaughterhouses was severely retarded by the
bankruptcy of the contractor initially selected through international competi-
tive bidding. the construction of one slaughterhouse is virtually completed
but requires some minor civil works and equipment installation. The second
slaughterhouse has remained at about 60 percent of completion for several



- 13 -
months due to disputes between SODEPA and the second contractor. As it
appears unlikely that the present contractor will be able to complete the
work, provision would be made in the proposed project to enable SODEPA to
complete the slaughterhouses.
36.       SODEPA's investment program for the establishment of three ranches
has been practically completed. While ranch infrastructure was completed
satisfactorily, the beginning of SODEPA's operations lagged behind schedule.
Cattle prices rose more rapidly than expected and, as a result, the targets
for stocking the ranches with cattle could not be achieved because of lack of
funds. Furthermore, targeted production coefficients were not reached.
Ranch revenues fell below appraisal expectations while headquarters staffing
levels and operating costs were much higher than planned. Delays in the
generation of income from the slaughterhouse and ranches, meant that SODEPA's
cash flow - projected to be positive during the second project year - remained
negative during the first five years. SODEPA's cumulative deficit amounted to
about CFAF 440 million (US$2 million) by mid-78. Thus, it was evident that
SODEPA's earning power as forecast at appraisal was too optimistic. The
Government was, therefore, obliged to provide extraordinary financing such as
additional funding and reallocation of investment funds to operating expendi-
tures to maintain SODEPA's solvency. Government has confirmed that it would
transform SODEPA's current long-term debt into grants, and owing to the
long-term objectives of SODEPA, would transfer funds under the proposed
project as a grant. The additional demands on SODEPA's management created by
these financial and administrative problems during the start-off period of
operations were so heavy that other functions assigned to it in the areas of
training, monitoring and evaluation of field activities, and financial manage-
ment and control were severely hampered.  Consequently, SODEPA's financial,
production and other key project data became available too slowly--despite the
presence of competent technical advisors--to initiate a timely re-appraisal of
performance and policy.
37.       Costs under the first project exceeded project estimates by about
CFAF 1.6 billion (US$7.3 million), or 45 percent above appraisal estimates,
as of D-ecember 31, 1979. The greatest over-expenditure (US$4.5 million)
was incurred on the tsetse component, owing specially to heavier than expected
infestation resulting in higher spraying costs, and the FRG provided funds to
finance the overrun. However, some savings (US$0.5 million) were realized on
civil works, vehicles and equipment for SODEPA. Over-expenditure on SODEPA's
operating costs was US$2.7 million (400 percent over appraisal estimate)
primarily from higher personnel costs.
38.       The experience with the first pilot project showed that a credit
program in the traditional livestock sector could be administered successfully
by FONADER and that beneficiaries of sub-loans were willing to modify tradi-
tional production methods. An expanded second credit tranche is, therefore,
proposed to be implemented through FONADER's field offices. Parastatal
ranching, on the other hand, has not proven to be as efficient technically as
expected. Low production coefficients and high investment and operating costs
have made financial viability unlikely. Under these circumstances a redeploy-
ment of ranch resources, possibly transferring part of them to the private
sector, would be desirable. Recognizing this, SODEPA is studying alternative
options with the Bank for a more economic and efficient use of resources and



- 14 -
improved technical performance. Government has agreed to finalize a detailed
program including a timetable for its execution, acceptable to IDA, by not
later than June 30, 1980 for achieving a more efficient and economic use of
resources of the three SODEPA ranches at Faro, Dumbo and Ndokayo (Section 3.08
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       Experience with three annual campaigns under the first project
showed that a tsetse eradication program could be implemented and serve as a
basis for an expanded trypanosomiasis control program for subsequent years.
Components for support of animal health and production services would assist
pastoralists to make efficient use of cleared areas. The project would
provide assistance in land use planning for the freed zone on the basis of a
land use survey shortly to be completed by the FRG. Results of the implemen-
tation of the first project have furthermore shown that coordination between
executing agencies has been difficult and that a monitoring and evaluation
system should be developed to allow adjustments as needed during project
execution. Therefore, under the second project it is proposed to establish a
central project coordination unit with overall coordinating and monitoring
functions to ensure efficient execution of all project components.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was prepared in 1978 by the consulting firm
employed by Government to manage the First Livestock Development Project.
Appraisal took place in February/Mlarch 1979 at which time some of the pre-
paration report proposals were significantly altered because new information
became available on SODEPA's financial situation and the technical performance
of its ranches. Tentative agreement on some new proposals for SODEPA's
ranches was reached with Government during a supervision mission of the first
project in November 1979. Thus, the proposed project takes full account
of the experience gained under the first project, and its objectives conform
with the Government's current livestock development strategy. Negotiations
took place in March 1980. The Cameroonian delegation was led by H.E. Benoit
Bindzi, Ambassador to the United States, and included the Director General of
FONADER and SODEPA. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2690-CM is being circu-
lated separately.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The project would support the second phase of Cameroon's "Meat
Plan" through three major production components: a diversified credit
program, continued eradication of tsetse flies from the grazing area of the
Adamaoua Plateau, and a strengthening of veterinary field services. It would
also support formal and informal training, and institutional reforms in aid of
the productive components. Provisions for the strengthening of monitoring and
evaluation of project components would improve the managerial capabilities of
executing institutions, help to ensure effective project implementation and
thereby enhance the Government's capacity to undertake subsequent phases of
the Meat Plan. The project would also assist in completing some activities
not fully executed during the first project, i.e. tsetse fly eradication,
slaughterhouse construction and training. Specifically, the project would:



- 15-
(i)  provide investment and working capital credit through FONADER:
for producers in the northwestern and southern coastal zone for
pig breeding and fattening (200 loans), broiler production (100
loans), eggs and cockerel production (100 loans), and cattle
production on small mixed farms (500 loans); for private cattle
breeding and fattening ranches in the tsetse cleared areas of the
Adamaoua Plateau (100 loans), Dumbo and Ndokayo (40 loans) and small
ranches in the North-Wlest Province (30 loans); and for small-scale
agriculturalists (800 producers in 40 groups) in production lines
consistent with land use plans for the northeast part of the tsetse
cleared zone;
(ii)  complete the eradication of tsetse flies in the target area under
the first project (800,000 ha) by clearing 276,000 ha; and implement
a second stage tsetse fly eradication program covering about 163,000
ha, in order to return 1.3 million ha of grassland to traditional
producers at program completion;
(iii)  strengthen MIINEL's veterinary field services in the Adamaoua
Plateau to ensure adequate disease prevention and control;
(iv)  strengthen SODEPA by extending technical assistance contracts
for staff to supervise the completion of slaughterhouse con-
struction and to manage them, and for a financial controller to
improve SODEPA's financial control capacity; by providing for a
ranch management specialist and by provision of civil works,
equipment and vehicles for SODEPA's slaughterhouses and ranches;
(v) improve the program of formal and in-service training for MINEL
veterinary field service staff; implement an in-service training
program for SODEPA agents in slaughterhouse management and operation;
FONADER agents in credit supervision and monitoring; and MINEL staff
assigned to the Special Mission in tsetse eradication, survey and
perimeter maintenance;
(vi)  establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)--headed by a Project
Coordinator--within MINEL with overall responsibilities for project
activities; and
(vii)  provide funds for the preparation of a possible follow-up project,
in the event of a satisfactory evaluation of the proposed second
project in its third project year.
Project Implementation
42.       The project would mainly be executed within the institutional frame-
work developed during the first project with such adaptations as now seem
necessary, based on the experience described above. A project coordination
unit (PCU) reporting directly to the Secretary General of MINEL would be
responsible for overall project coordination, and the monitoring and evalua-
tion of project activities. It would consist of an internationally recruited



- 16 -
Project Coordinator, a training specialist to advise on all aspects of train-
ing under the proposed project, and support staff. The Project Coordinator,
after consulting with executing agencies, would design a detailed program for
regular project monitoring and evaluation, thus allowing periodic adjustments
in implementation if necessary. Reporting to the financing agencies would
also be the responsibility of the PCU. Employment of the Project Coordinator
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
43.       FONADER's field offices would continue to administer a credit
program for individual ranches and farmers (as described in para. 41 (i)
above). FONADER's technical capabilities in the field would be strengthened
to correct operating weaknesses revealed during the first project, so that its
dependence on other agencies for technical support would be reduced. FONADER
would utilize technical staff to properly identify, prepare, evaluate and
supervise credits including two specialists whose expertise is in short supply
in Cameroon. An internationally recruited specialist in pig and poultry
production would be attached to FONADER's Bamenda office with responsibility
for implementing the pig and poultry component. He would be assisted by five
Cameroonian technicians financed by and seconded to FONADER for this purpose.
An internationally recruited cattle specialist stationed at Ngaoundere would
appraise loans for cattle breeding and fattening, assisted by four Cameroonian
technicians also seconded to FONADER. Over the four-year project period,
about 1,100 loans are expected to be made. US$9.1 million of the proceeds of
the proposed credit would be relent to FONADER for 18 years, including a
four-year grace period, at an interest rate of 5 percent per year, under a
subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between Government and
FONADER on terms and conditions approved by IDA (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). On-lending conditions to sub-borrowers vary
from three to ten years, including one to four years of grace, at interest
rates ranging from 8 to 10 percent per year. FONADER's weighted average
on-lending rate of 9.7 percent per year, which is close to the average recent
and projected rate of inflation in Cameroon, would provide a margin to FONADER
sufficient to cover operating costs and provisions for default. IDA would
continue, during the course of supervision and sectoral dialogue, to encourage
Government to adjust this rate structure in line with prevailing economic and
financial conditions. The proposed project attaches the highest priority,
however, to making FONADER's organization, staffing and lending procedures
more efficient. SODEPA would continue to provide sub-leases to ranchers and
farmers settling on its land and receiving credits from FONADER. Credit made
available under the project would be for up to 80 percent of fixed investments
and additional working capital. FONADER would also procure stocks of veteri-
nary medicines and supplies for use by credit recipients.
44.       MINEL's Special Mission, established under the first project would
continue to be responsible for executing the tsetse eradication and control
program including surveys for perimeter definition and defence of these
perimeters. The habitat of tsetse flies--covering about 20 percent of the
total area infested--would be sprayed from helicopters in two annual campaigns
with the insecticides used during the first project. Provision is made for a
third year's spraying in the event that the limits of infestation advance



- 17 -
beyond those currently foreseen. Surveys to establish the limits of infesta-
tion would be conducted during the first project year and would be repeated to
assure that re-infestation was not occurring. A perimeter along the northern
boundary to the freed zone would be defined and maintained by ground spraying
crews. In the first project, no major ecological disruption ws.3 experienced
as a result of insecticide applications. However, although not included in
project costs, the FRG would finance continued surveillance of the campaign to
detect possible environmental side effects. This information, as well as
economic and technical data, would be used by the Special Mission to evaluate
and possibly adjust the longer-term anti-trypanosomiasis program. The Special
Mission would continue to be headed by a Cameroonian veterinarian, assisted by
an operations controller and a veterinarian from the FRG, and supported by
internationally recruited specialists on short-term consultancy contracts.
The expatriate experts would help administer the annual campaigns and ground
spraying, as well as survey activities, while training Cameroonian staff on
the job for work at various levels of responsibility, following a program
agreed with IDA. In order to further strengthen the administrative and
financial support for the Special Mission, Government would locate the mis-
sion's imprest account in Ngaoundere, would ensure auditing of the mission
accounts, and would channel funds and materials to the Special Mission on the
basis of an agreed budget and timetable.
45.       Clearing tsetse flies from the Adamaoua Plateau would remove the
major constraint on herd growth and would enable families to return from
overcrowded and overgrazed adjacent zones. In early 1979, for example, some
160 families owning about 100,000 animals had already registered with the
governmental committee in charge of re-entry and had established their trans-
humant rights to the land involved. In addition, MINEL's Veterinary Field
Services in the Plateau would be re-equipped and strengthened as resettlement
progressed. These conditions would be a strong incentive for pastoralists to
resettle. The FRG and the Association would continue to cooperate with the
Government in using the results of the land use study underway to direct the
repopulation of the freed zone. A land use planner to be recruited interna-
tionally would work with Cameroonian authorities in Ngaoundere to implement a
land use plan for the tsetse freed area that used the results of the study
conducted by the FRG. MINEL's services comprise veterinary services and
animal husbandry extension delivered through existing Centre Zootechnique et
Veterinaire (CZV), some of which would be refurbished under the project and
would expand to include 4 special CZV's to serve as posts for the control of
animals re-entering the tsetse freed zone.
46.       SODEPA would continue to have major responsibilities for slaughter-
houses and ranch management, including a role in support of training, and
its land allocation function under the credit program. Technical assis-
tance for these tasks will be provided as mentioned in para 41 (iv).
Irrespective of the Government's ultimate decision on whether to develop and
continue running its parastatal ranches, or to make some other arrangement
for use of the land, responsibility for executing the decision would remain
with SODEPA. An internationally recruited ranch management specialist would
assist in executing the program for ranch resource redeployment, and the



- 18 -
financial controller currently in post would help manage ranch finances.
Funds would be provided under the project for the purchase of replacement
equipment and vehicles and drugs and medicines. One ranch site would also be
used for practical retraining of I'INEL field staff in animal health and animal
husbandry practices. Activities at the Jakiri ranch and station, which SODEPA
administers parallel with MINEL's training school, include demonstrating beef
cattle ranching, dairying, pig and poultry production to newly recruited and
existing MINEL field staff. This I-raining activity would be strengthened
under the project. The program would be closely coordinated with the Jakiri
veterinary training institute, and be under the direction of an interna-
tionally recruited director who would have joint responsibilities for the
station and school.
Training
47.       Selected staff of all executing agencies under the project would
receive either in-service or formal training in support of project activities.
Appropriate MINEL field staff would be retrained at centers supported by
project funds for this purpose. A program of in-service training for operat-
ing staff of the Special lission would be designed and implemented by senior
Mission personnel. Internationally recruited staff would, as part of their
terms of reference, train in-service local staff assigned to their respective
functions. Finally, the PCU would include a training specialist responsible
for advising on and monitoring training activities in all project components.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$36.0
million of which US$23.6 million (66 percent) represent foreign exchange costs.
Government taxes and duties on goods, services and salaries amount to US$3.9
million. Project costs are based on mid-1979 prices; physical contingencies
of 10 to 15 percent and price contingencies of 10 to 12 percent per annum have
been used. Costs include a provision for retroactive financing of about
US$1.3 million, required to cover expenditures from October 1, 1979 on the
insecticides needed for the 1979/80 tsetse eradication campaign. The proposed
IDA credit would provide for 35 man-years of technical assistance for 10
specialists during the life of the project at an average cost of US$9,400 per
man-month of base costs or US$10,800 including contingencies. In addition,
the FRG would provide free of charge seven man-years for services of three
specialists for the tsetse eradication program.
49.       The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) would participate in project
financing with US$9.0 million (25 percent of project costs net of taxes), of
which US$1 million would be in the form of a grant and US$8 million as a
loan on terms similar to IDA's. Thus, together with the proposed IDA Credit
of US$16.0 million (45 percent of project costs net of taxes), external
financing would cover the project's foreign exchange component and about
11 percent of local costs net of taxes. Herdsmen and farmers would provide
US$2.3 million as equity participation, while Government would cover the
remaining local costs of US$8.7 million (25 percent of project costs net of
taxes), in addition to US$3.9 million of taxes.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Contracts for US$100,000 or more totalling about US$4 million,
principally for the purchase of vehicles and equipment for MINEL and SODEPA,
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with IDA guidelines, except for the purchase of equipment to complete
the Douala slaughterhouse. Such equipment, valued at about US$0.4 million,
would be purchased from the original supplier to maintain standardization.
Insecticides worth US$2.6 million for the 1980/81 and 1981/82 spraying cam-
paign would be procured from the same suppliers who provided them for the
first project, but suppliers of potential substitute insecticides would
be invited to submit proposals to have new products tested for possible use.
The balance of insecticide requirements worth about US$1.3 million would be
procured through limited international tendering which would allow for new
products--found suitable after field testing--to be considered. Contracts
for goods valued between US$30,000 and US$100,000, totalling approximately
US$3.5 million, would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA, while individual contracts of less than
US$30,000, for a total of about US$0.5 million, would be procured on the basis
of at least three quotations. Orders would be grouped whenever practicable in
order to derive maximum benefit from bulk procurement.  Goods financed through
FONADER credits for livestock and farm development would be procured through
regular commercial channels (US$11.4 million). Contracts for remodeling and
construction of buildings totalling about US$4 million would be too small and
dispersed to attract international bidders and consequently would be awarded
following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Items
included in operating costs (US$2 million), to be financed by Government, do
not lend themselves to bidding procedures. The helicopter services for
spraying and the technical assistance for tsetse eradication, both involving
costs of about US$5.3 million, would be financed by FRG which would apply its
own rules on procurement. Domestically manufactured goods will be allowed a
preference of 15 percent or the level of applicable duty, whichever is less,
comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers.
51.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed over 4-1/2 years to cover the
following expenditures: (i) by FONADER: 25 percent of sub-loans to livestock
owners, mixed-crop farmers and small farmers (US$2.3 million), 80 percent of
total expenditures on vehicles and equipment for credit administration and for
technical assistance (US$0.9 million); (ii) by SODEPA: 60 percent of total
expenditures for civil works (US$0.65 million) and 80 percent of total expen-
ditures on vehicles, equipment, and veterinary supplies and for technical
assistance (US$2.35 million); (iii) by MINEL: (a) on tsetse fly extermina-
tion: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for insecticides (US$3.9 million),
50 percent of total expenditures on vehicles, equipment, and fixed-wing
aircraft hire cost (US$0.3 million), and 60 percent of total expenditures for
civil works (US$0.1 million); (b) on veterinary field services: 60 percent of
total expenditures for civil works (US$1.4 million) and 80 percent of total
expenditures on vehicles and veterinary equipment (US$0.4 million); (c) on
training: 60 percent of total expenditures on civil works (US$0.1 million)
and 80 percent of total expenditures on vehicles, equipment and technical



- 20 -
assistance (US$0.5 million); and (d) on project coordination and monitoring:
80 percent of total expenditures on vehicles and equipment and for technical
assistance and preparation of a possible follow-up project (US$1.65 million).
The disbursement percentages for vehicles, equipment, veterinary supplies,
fixed-wing aircraft hire cost, and technical assistance represent the esti-
mated foreign exchange components of total expenditures. US$1.45 million
would be unallocated.  Disbursements for sub-loans made by FONADER would be
against certified statements of expenditure, with supporting documentation
retained by FONADER for examination during supervision, and all other dis-
bursement claims would be fully documented.  While the FRG would disburse
directly for salaries and operating costs of technical assistance staff used
in tsetse eradication campaigns and for the helicopter spraying, it would
disburse pari passu with IDA for the private sector credit scheme in the ratio
of 2:1. A condition of disbursement for the credit and tsetse eradication
components would be that the FRG loan for these elements is effective and that
arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the technical assistance to be provided
by the FRG in their respect have been made (Paragraphs 4(b) and (c), Schedule 1
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Reports and Auditing
52.       Project executing agencies--FONADER, SODEPA, MINEL, and the Special
Mission--would keep separate accounts which would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA annually except for MINEL's
current budget which would be subject to standard government audit procedures.
The auditor's report on FONADER project accounts - for the six types of
subloans to livestock owners, mixed-crop farmers and small farmers - would
include a special opinion on the documentation supporting the statement of
expenditures against which IDA had reimbursed funds to cover 25 percent of the
sub-loans.
Project Benefits
53.       The principal benefit of the project for consumers would be an
increase in meat supply from all livestock sources of about 4,600 tons per
year at full development in project year eight. The principal benefits for
producers would be in the form of higher incomes, both because existing
enterprises would become more productive and because new livestock production
alternatives would be introduced0 Financial rates of return from these
improved activities would range from 15 percent for cattle ranching to over 36
percent for eggs, cockerel and crop production.  Less quantifiable indirect
benefits would also be realized such as the arrest of the advance of the
tsetse fly which would protect agricualtural land from the threat of infesta-
tion; furthermore the project would assist in expanding the herd the herd
through improved cattle breeding and would enlarge meat distribution which
would further stimulate rural employment and income opportunities. Another
and long-lasting benefit would be the strengthening of government institutions
in administrative and policy-making i-unctions.



- 21 -
54.       The three directly productive components of the project, accounting
for about 75 percent of project costs, have an estimated overall economic rate
of return of 18 percent. Of these, the traditional sector credit program,
accounting for 33 percent of project costs, has an estimated economic rate of
return of 19 percent; the tsetse eradication program, taking all actual costs
incurred from the first project and 80 percent of the proposed project cost
into account, has an estimated economic rate of return of 17 percent; and the
program to improve veterinary field services, accounting for 10 percent of
project costs, has an estimated economic rate of return of 20 percent. When
all costs including those for MINEL and SODEPA headquarters as well as project
overheads are accounted for, the project shows an estimated overall economic
rate of return of 16 percent. In spite of these favorable economic rates of
return and good financial rates of return for producers, Government's cumula-
tive cash flow would be negative throughout the disbursement period and for at
least a 14-year period after that. IDA would continue a dialogue with the
Government, encouraging it to consider practical means through which some of
the economic benefits of the project could be recaptured to offset recurrent
costs.
Project Risks
55.       The proposed project has an overall management risk with regard
to project execution and specific risks associated with its major individual
components. To make project management more effective, the PCU would undertake
the development of a monitoring and evaluation system which would permit a
periodic reassessment of project implementation. The success of the credit
program, in particular that for pigs and poultry, will depend to a large
extent on the development of adequate appraisal and supervision techniques of
sub-loans managed by FONADER. To minimize this risk, internationally
recruited credit production specialists for each of the two FONADER field
offices together with suitable Cameroonian staff would develop and implement a
system that would fulfill this function. In addition, the number of sub-loans
to be extended would initially be small to allow for a period of in-service
training of local staff and the operation of the appraisal and supervision
systems under FONADER's newly decentralized organization.
56.       The continuing effectiveness of the tsetse eradication program
depends on the timely availability of spray materials and careful follow-up
with ground crews. To minimize such problems in the proposed extension
of the program Government has agreed to change the administrative financial
system for the Special Mfission to eliminate these delays. Mloreover, cattle
re-entering the cleared zone will pass through appropriately located control
posts staffed by trained veterinary field service staff. A system of resur-
vey, local extermination, and strong barrier maintenance also provided for in
the proposed project would be vital to reduce the risk of reinfestation.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic of
Cameroon and the International Development Association, the draft Project Agree-
ments between IDA and SODEPA and between IDA and FONADER, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
58.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
59.       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the Project
Coordinator be employed and in post and that a subsidiary financing agreement
be entered into between Government and FONADER (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
60.       A condition of disbursement for the credit and tsetse eradication
components would be that the FRG loan for these elements is effective and that
arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the technical assistance to be provided
by the FRG in their respect have been made (Paragraphs 4 (b) and (c), Schedule
1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOIMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 2 , 1980



- 23-                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                     Page  1  of  5  pages
CA^EROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MoST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOnE      LDCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTLMATE /b      BEGION Ic   GROUP /d    GELOUP Ye
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLM(ENT RATIOS
PRIMAPRY:    TOTAL                65.0        107.0     120.0            59.0        82.7       102.5
MALE                 87.0        124.0     133.0            64.2       87.3        108.6
FEMALE               43.0        91.0      106.0            44.2       75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0          9.0      17.0             9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                  4.0        13.0       23.0            12.0       33.0         38.4
FENALE                1.0         5.0       11.0             4.4       15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2i OF SECONDARY)  23.0        23.0      23.0             7.0         9.8        11.5
PUPLL-TEAcER RATIO
PRIMARY                                       48.0       51.0            42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                           ,,         24.0      23.0            22.9       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        19.0        12.0        ..            20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0          6.0       7.8             4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         36.0      96.0            44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PEP THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..           ..        ..             2.9        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INrTEREST) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  2.0/h        3.0       3.9             5.6        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNU'AL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1          ..       1.0             0.4         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABCR FORCE (TROUSANDS)     2230.0       2560.0    2783.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    ..           ..      40.0            31.9       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.5         75.9      73.8            77.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.6          6.0       6.3             7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.3         37.8      35.7            40.8       37.1         33.5
MALE                                   ..          ..      45.6            53.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                                ..           ..      26.9            25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0          1.2       1.3             1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIYATE INCOME
RECE7VED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..              ..        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..         ..              ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..              ..        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..              ..        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POvERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      189.0           187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                               ,.           ..      88.0            96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER-CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..           138.4      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..            71.0      103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCt)ME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       15.0            34.5       24.8        20.5
RU,RAL                              *-           *-      40.0            48.7       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not utLiform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita. 1976);  /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per cipita, 1976);  /f  1962, including ex-South Cameroons under British Administra-
tion;  /R  West Cameroon only;  lh   1964-1966;   /i  1960-65;   /i  Fiscal year July-June.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-24--                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEE-
ROON             ~~~~REFERENC_ GROUPS (AO.IUSTEI) AjERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                  CAMER                         F   .OST ORCET   NST   HAIGHE
TOTAL.           475.4                                                          SA      K~SAE   NLEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     156.4                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOmE        ISCO.fE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION !c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GN1I PER CAPITA (US$)                 130.0       250.0      460.0/1         306.1      467.5       1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAIMS OF COAL  QULIVALE.NT)    55.0        91.0      98.0             80.6      262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL S-ATISTICS
POPULATION, .1ID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      5.7         6.8       7.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL) 13.9         20.3       27.2            17.1       24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2D00 (MflLLIONS)                       1l.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         32.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION tS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        12.0        14.0       17.0            18.4       45.3         44.6
PER SQ. KI. AGRICULTUR.UAL LAND    36.0        44.0      51.0             50.8      149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          38.5        41.3       43.0            44.1       45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                          59.2        55.7      54.0             52.9       51.9         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.3         3.0       3.0              2.8        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT,
TOTAL                               1.4         1.8       2.2              2.7        2.7          2.4
URBAN                                *-         5.6       8.0              5.7        4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.0        42.1       43.0            46.3       39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        22.0       19.0            17.2       11.7          9.2
GROSS BEPRODUCTION RATE               2.3/st      2.7       2.8              3.1        2.7          2.2
FAKILY P'.ANI1SG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..              ..       13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          70.4        100.0     102.0             94.3       99.6        104.4
PER WITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0         96.0     102.0             89.5       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           59.0        59.0      59.3             55.8       54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        23.0/h    16.5             17.9       17.4        23.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      40.0        32.0      27.0              22.3      11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         42.0      46.0             47.0       54.7        60.2
INFAST MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          167.0/i         ..        ..               ..       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      26.0             20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                                ..          ..      35.0             53.9       57.9        75.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      22.0             10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DtSPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            22.5       40.8        46.0
'JRBAN                               ..          ..         ..            62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..            13.9       27.7        22.5
POP'ILATION PER PHYSICIAN        34000.0/f   25560.0   13980.0           17424.7     6799.4      2262.4
POPU1LATION PER NURSING PERSON    5210.0/f   2470.0    1890.0             2506.6     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            530.0/f      310.0     380.0            502.3      726.5       453.4
URBAS                               ..           ..     350.0            201.4      272.7       253.1
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..          1403.6      1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS ?ER HIOSFITAL 3ED           ..          ..        ..             23.4       27.5        22.1
HOC'S iG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOCUSEHOL
.OTAL                               ..           .        5.2             -.9         5.4         5.3
URBAN                               ..           ..       5.1              4.9        5.1         5.2
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.2              5.5        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE KUMJBER OF PERSONS PER R00K
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          .9
RL'RAL                              ..           ..        ..               ..         ..         2.5
AC7- SS TO ELECTRIOC:'y (PERCEN-T
OF 4WELL _NGSo)
TO-AL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       2.          50.0
iS01A7l                             ..           ..        ..               ..       45.1        71.7
SUP.AL                               ..          ..        ..               ,,        9.9         17.3



-25-ANX
Page 3 of 5 pages
Se.  1444   e  oi   e  osnrtte -nre  iseatl  JtW.t~d Sb. eWt ettettes.4-eLlJ,L  .51  nJ.  be cOed -Ut they co  sot be Lt*sen
V%el1-Orsot. Ieee.  If -h. Lan  If it-erloadl           Wiatlttoss  -At Sotoept  ass bybtSs             4anso  st.ei               0  sn   hett  r,i4te
ai.toi to 4.007th, orer  at         itm a." t.LeoIs itds    d afareers.0054  n41o  d.Lffeneee  OcOete  010.
orttr L4a!!eat. 4100    a.t   eto   SA.4*   ees   tikot.atr   i   .,0    .04  '501  -.teso  of ..n4n.src  a  bOd  to .at  o."Cs d brs
-so.. Sat    - oepes *a ossr.  ia  toe IoOnegA       A r essr0.-   sa I   hf  u   lstr f    eSts ii sapl.  )II10  of  at..0   :eac    ute....01  .os4ttoeocet....
A ri*W#Ljl   roee   t  4   ols AMId   So . MI   A Oh..The  Ysietie Ml fl- r  oU P V*  ttJ i   pea5ttOi   tcte  ed                  .-0  -nn   i- ett toe ,soe        c
attesto  so S a.. we   :05 O US.f .40 asferfee escap.6            .         s                  _ 
:A= MAMA  :cesn...d oq_InAr.. t  Nhr4to 2h.v..o   ,reoa   o.1sbo -t                                                                                       00  aio.,tnr-
Aciaha. f, to   ecn  ee.WWAa  itA .scli..  irs  04   oercu                           peeoe of   staIr ~  Zeeet.   aJo.o                 c-t   tycd   a   0L
or paine.44 toeacne,;.mno.o, enet cd 000400 .3fard         r t                 the  elenc   sd dispeas.1. e,tb or oShcs-etaa    1  15  tretc
.i. raIs                                                                                   a    st..e    r v.0.Z-horn  sT-nt  or t h. ,ts  It pit  ioe34 .d               cat
c3trlo   500       iWrl4 358  AU-. (1976.78 besS,                "isLIldro             .L c .W.shol at  - -tr.st  I.-I..
1.96,m:St  s.d 9P9 Inc.                                                                Peistio  ocr Ocret  ?-red - ?Oo.tca05054   by  -D05r at ;-ln150 L.L.
41976 da"                                                                            MaIc   o   eet   ee..  340 4-tiaS,areO  bcetltita.J  sd r..0i.tsi    enr.
jeeita  ie   s;siautflt   eine4ty   taffed by it tosat Ste 16y-ac.e
I0700A4I10  OPS 0770 3TA?:3T7CO                                                                6.oLUZo.et  pree-diog pre. peiy ..3t utodosS  ete re sc 0t 02448. harel
"otel?3*su0tt.s  0,0SeereaS.to4eb - eof Icty I.; L96O, IM0,  ad                  bcctt..oc-er.  ;-.100  bostO, sd -0di." catrsct 2-7atsotr sctted
1977 itt..                                                         ~~~~~ ~~~~by *    sfticas ~. btS      Io.tsost  acs.ossefe. sic.   3.00  fferr
'5005  Ocest.t    'cerct _      It tona)   Utlott  it  rIfb   to toteS  eOPeI-iQn:c          1e-p.%tuet tco-odtiuc sea prcosia  . liaSd rg. If -d.c.i- ctJ1tus
Aifeee  A tii.ttct  It arie  tr_e W$  e.f54  aftre4.ity  It 5.5.                                            M*toctse   co.0   - toted   oMber If cOAisL"10   to  r II c.ge 
to0ab.utlee fttlert1ace ~ ~ ~     ~          ~         ~         ~        ~       ~       IWm  f  --
-C`o`rrec  Pc..1.tioa pee5eetbe  ire bated Se              I1OUT-
L975  oo,ojotisb  n.e  a  car sd -heIr sehLilt7 Sad fernility                         k--s. Sioe It  aaa-od              -- i. -.r e    -eh.oScld) . ao..0na     d tort
re..  "Jeoobe  R-nor,-  for- ta t          -ose   'aie.*I atsre.                    A .i -olaOd O-eao t. I, .ra  asP uruada.as-c  ac     L-oqe -s-.rter   -d
Lev_l. t.t lax Lots :  .pettony to btrSO         -    Weseal  Odtt   Q-uty', 3st-r 300  Ctt       00504? ar Lodg.r cy a, sy act 53:02.54:  ti
ear000.   c      Lc tee, ted r.Le  Lit. eOYetmy  tOttO   i                              4t2    a  eaclttot-o.  tLSo
'7.1   es.    h  pratr   o  fen-ilUs   rt. ALoe th."  tire  trek-                     Wors. rasher If  -.ei  i.wn.-sCt.004   a    -oe.  - W-ree 6                      53
steeSog dmeLa  aC teetSty soc-dirt to030Lw.cdPst                                        atSeee r r-o  :  sLI Arcs,  -a ueLaooad at-st-.0l  otLns
Stt.!Aic  aow  i.ato If  La ow ontcr  pCyLLntya thee. f-  tro  ~.000                      ae.,AO.   a AzonS. Ao*flOt  eeeceoA r-
aseioes to tie  repts t Lre tia-   n0e        th-lreatj n. rta,Ac             ba.40  Lroi.ceo   nt _oL
set   0sritian St Oa             etioe  ,t3.  tt -OteOLY.  toa  mnte.O W.   0            ror   oeL-tt.,   cecdftl      rn  atd nt   e   et   ne
of the pewLotba-o      - o   th  'e-r Cd,' it  Ut0 -sia at eluo. rSt  lettto-tiaep?itic;aeL-:OLdecsIrest   -L   vr   o
easha  eeoI.neet Level.                  I450-:t4 farh.itteeett Leigr,Oo                                                        t ?fa.yobO al, roe :cttres  lO
feAr oOsiioeor -_saLt.ted I.  -bte -- Ifthe -e P-J etdler    oe*l0                           nrra   roiiototsn04 cne   O   een   iobi Os.. ,aa-..
IfUo .      Wata.tbce--lw                    -           f  -=4I leccaty                  Sec-eoos.t 50.001- -i.. 01   e  0051.              -1-    tgO.ie   a.sv:.eooerc
be, o. s.   4-yeapee-lsisa pr i.t.r  allttee  (tO henars)-    o              edjcs,tc  Cenue   t.ee    c iles-sez a-.t .peoop:er    atn tl
isOS  itepeo-as  te.r..ootan  arft-  ta.WIe-tslo                                                                                          .tcSa        or.0
asJ*.                                                               oeetoaoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,. d.T
mp.,n re;  96,11-70, to       --"977-    o 040...                ."a.U.y.rtIne     ot I..cetea.-  ofnai.naoje.i
TheA.  ,0th  nte  0.  tts.oead) - eal U-   oirtce perh olosef tt1id-                 n  eoc esea   0.1cospraLta   *0   byee  e    r,
tear )tbLtaioes 9L 0 -,190, Sdtl  looss.       M;rw                                                                    "id'  yn_ _I 
Send. Seteb tote   ce taoo.sed) - tes...]. beIsha pr~ th Ifeea   .-yse'   SO   14.0
ac..i._seto   iO,97 , son LOP' aiSa                                           .tias     eeereoTflitians.cac  .?ae4eaeae-osttsar
-c4 te   oes-eriat.e  cd.I Llat s irteee   p-rtoetiage Ifaedletes.d  5  .-     .
1-0. toOe LOPt.           ..e.A)   Asoerateel potb it  tsosoWt ttocai-aca  ocl4s  .t.AieSi
O5-4'tne1   . f-    eOO  acetro a.!T erined ac-me .  -seritaA   St tsflisd              RdIV ?.esee   e -    acotIeach ocr.tiot.    Alb  oaeee  Ifo  b~ess- i.iage
b-ne.pr tr. -....aoa ie.oocoic t aoraLaaIf -pShone se.sd-..  anLsa
9022 12515 0077175005                                                                 at If  - -    -b.e. - -eetoes.e',afae  as 0 Ifeotla.i poeSt, se
-:Oaa-ia t      '-or     nac If   ta194.1. -l... -r La.C. i   ear sicat.                     ttane   i.ru.ry ~-to  eooc I---     e,L  oee   :0W l  -eeaee -to be-r,S-
teed ed 20 c  caboOe yearhotac.Lanadites Srer -e.200  000                  1..   ea.  sraoc   ceSot.a..n.                        aeso  h  sobter of  -50.5
e.4.agro.aan    fcgr  02cte.01..0:OseaoaIOo                                             aM0          h   er  oacasog  onhoa. to  1ea.ecot.sta   o:L
0.4. aiffe   stt ten oe eactcdtd    hggreqntecrodujo-io  Of-sOti-
FWD ANDe   :0 AnTtaoLaeag   r.05peaish
atotttte.  505at iedproeean..cOdLasesdibs Stttetc.  ens                    e       tenets; - ZeeL..-q0 loera--rsteeo  50.1.tio  done.
.ide oed co-aat rabist  attcanso    t   tese                 -Oee  te                 LGsry.oeod,     at   sre:   aag   Ioeen                     . ...a.. e-araog  soc
stise et cOoOt?eslO  Level,                                           tIer teaa.sy, iocee SOdF~e se-.r Isprrseoa   o ti            ta-.1.b
be  aotorppyofaot,   Sn  OOC. Iboy)~-o -              d,eiae  .05m a --r          srAc:o-itio  Otis  Omen-  '-Sato.  ft.  eva, roaltm -  itsaan eto
~tor.   eaat      s  c  sit onaaira-M ee- es.thtlm--P .. IOtA probe -a, a stsge,o  totti, stI., tIC S eaSe aco-r                     ,as      ei  eer-pot
1.0 000  Ola  OsrA rod   2    -Xt=VYI loisroy.51.  .shfitasdIt we  5oo.; o   -L9a  y.ore.L..  
0e-a..oO  le.  0.If sot55.c   t.0sti mtarso. p-u                                    ecC  I  90, s9rimI'9rbtCIf.-    !Z                    -t-~~   ..
1145l-e  1-A      ta tsl.St    bee   rri-toaa00 S-     jolsad  04. 10 -   prto.l..s       Me ---o    a  Ptt-rotf -os..   bo          d  a .c 00ot   Oa-dee  oy nies
ap.4aro3     s,La  oeeared teem -    ab t_ttoo,                                          of SOStSOdOi.tt.Y?A           u-   f                        5   d  5 
staLls                                                                               SOSEPd7~ S-Y.'. 7.5317 z-L-5ICP7Py..
eo...i.o  toaota  b.Ml,    ,5,0  97.Ino.aht.--                                                 oeey   035Le. :lto  .05I.e.2OCs  o2a coaoa
srsrat cr ae aoaoco  Loe        osalbo    .                                      5.tfDIIRoLBTON
totceu   af  usr   reos :1-   aco- aa       - tat-I oa... sad ear tl- d            tsros  botita    oet   soeLr                       e  tisatnad d    3-irc  so  -rd, -t
Ousor  . itPe    taoi,:ran,30, a-rt.  .055  eo.ot.oi  -tooe daatt  t.ta    ooryoasooL ioe:sooa  ora   e   t
ataro  ittoottea.,.   a etritcoSt  rA-1 oie.=   Ifs.  .41.1t4   d. 4914'tl-..f
tha  00  oaacof orsetor  Z-h.Oelaaetd0  O   ae0   Sada                                                                     ormtcdStoi  a.Iao
-ftrctoac. e pt   ttetpt It0. .t4 .3                   h-t..y   aecaafrtl   oeaee30PO   Oi   eare
rt-j.                I--- ---   --y                                     .-ie -r -p-~~~~bsuesL9T



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
19~~~j  Antual   ~ ~ ~ ~ D~ e                    1966-   1971 -   1976-   1.979 -        6      9
NATION"L ACCOMTs                                                                              -971                                         1 1981  19
3-Year Average at 1974.. 1975  rce  Exhag             Rae      e      Ou   Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Goss Domestic Pr*duct          1,5-69  2,032.5  2,F7270.ie4W7~~                                  .     2.5      _7  S.          .0.       7.      0.
Gains from Terms of Trade ()       -19.6    -'1        1.       6.          4.0 -2.             1.   3.                          -11.    27.6    -3.5
Gross Donestic Incom             1,'~ Mr 3         2        ,                                    83    2.       5.9    4.4        4T7     4      .
Import (Incl. VSi)                498 .5   644.3    704.1    955.0        981.6  1,112.3         6.7    1.3    5.2    2.6          33.5   34.4    31.0
Exp,orts   "  Usmirt capacity)   44.        223.5 ~62L4    8               853.5    923          7.4    2.2    5.1    2.7        ~       04       2.
Consss tion Expmndituresa       1,253.9  1,729.6  1,9e7.4  2,249.4    2,450.3  3,065.0           8.7    1 .7    4.9    5.3         84.3   81.0    85.3
InvStment   "  (mine. stocks)   184.3    376.2    463.5    639,,8         681.7    647.9          .9    2.0   10.2      .2         12.4   23.0    18.0
Domestic Savings                  233.3    285.3    359.2    527.~8        553.7    527.4        6.3    5.7   1.1.1      -         15.7   19.0    14.7
National Sav-ings                 177.7    2L2.0    304.4    457,2         473.2    418.6        7.2    5.1   U1.4   -1.5          12.0   16.5    11.6
pwHApDISE TPAjE------ Annal ~Data at ~Curreat Prices                                                                              As Percent of Total
Thports169 2.                                                                                                 12       .684
Capital goode'                   40.3      89.1    160.2    275.7        336.6    477.6       16     22 128          9684   29.8    30.
Intermediat. goodm Jarfuals)   87.3   1133.6    257.2    393.3          53.0.1    812.8        8.9   12.8   14.8   12.9         45.7   42.6    51.4
Fueils and related naterialaf     8.3      15.2     40.6      93.8        -         -         12.9   28.7      .     -72 1. 
of which: Petroleum             8.3      15.2     440.6     93.8        -                                                       7 29 2.    .2   10.2  -
'tlMerch. Tiorts (siT)       10         028     5673.12421          ,3651 1,582.0         10.0   14.    130       9.I0.L            100    0.
!)CPorts
~ri,-ary wrocbcts (ecl. fuels)   143.6    199.9    469.3    739.4       882.5  1,306.9        6.5   16.7   12.0   10.0          93.2   34.2    3~.
F~5,els and related materials    -         -        -        123        179       100           .      .      .      27-                1.        .
c0 -which: Petroleum           -        -         -        102.3      107.9    120.0          .      .      .      2.7          -    11.6       .
"aroifactured gode               146       209     341         2.3      10 799P.1                4.                                     1
Tourism  sOd ~ ~ ~~~~~i.6rts  (rob)                      3       4.2       9.         7.4   22.2   16.7   13.9          6.8     4.1      5.
TuimadBorder  Tr&ae                             .       7                                      69 1.           .          0.'   0.
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Aeage 1974-75    100
S3xport i'ri.ce Index             7.:5.             99.7    135 . 2     155.7    171.8        9.8   10.0   10.0    4.1
Import Price Index               43.7     58.9    107.9    128. 9       165.6    193.5        7.0   15.1    9.0      7
Terms,of Trade Index             91.9     97.0      92.4    104.9~       940       8.2. 15                    .
Exports Voclume Index            78.2     93.6    106.9    126.2.       143.2    181.1        4.1    2.4    7.8    6.2
VALUE AIDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1974-75 Prices andi ExchAnge Bates             Average Annual Growth Ra4tes      As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     322.4    659.7    752.9    872.2.       964.9  1,138.1        5.3    3.6    5.5   4i.5          34.7   32.2    30.,
:ndustry ar,d Mining      ~     262.1    374.8    439.3    570.         683.2    863.5       10.4    3.1    9.6    7.2          17.4   21.0
Ser,~~ ce               722.4    998.0  1,07?6.5  I1267 C0   1,411.3  1,717.0         8.2    1.6    5.6    5.2          47.9   46.3    44~.~
T-~lT72-                                     r77i'1M          3~`9'  371d:6            7.6    2.5    6.4    5.4        *i36t   100.0   100.0
K1BL:C 7IN4A2uE                                                                                                                     As Percent of GrP
7,7entral 3covernment, current prices and exchange rates)                                                                          i-.9g6   L        13
Current Receipts                129.3    212.9    439.0    777.3~   836.0           ..       123   17.7  .14.9        .         17.3   15.9
Orent Exqenditures            129.8    188.3    41.       713.6       624.0o      .         7.3   16.4   10. 1     ..         15.1   15.1
3detary lavinga                 -.5;    24.9      19       63.7       212.0       ...             27.6   25.4      ..2.2                .8
Other Public Sector I/           13.8        .8     77.3       ..       -26.0o      ..                  
Public Sector Investment         69.3    120.6    291.0       ..        573.2      i. 4.8   26.1    5.7              ..9.8
US5 $ million
C,R.P2NT ZXPENDITURJE DETA_1LS                Actual                  Prelim. Proj.        DETAIL ON                              At end 1974/75 P and S
A%s 3 Total Turrent Expend.             1967    19 '2      19 77     91978   1-9 81      PUBLIC SECTOR                     Fourth  Plan    ' of TotalI
Education                               -1.7   I17.77   23.3         17.0     ..         INVESTM4T PROGRAM                    (19 76 / 77  - 1980o / Si)
Other Social- Services                    .7      6.9      10.8      10.7     .          Social Sectors                          433.2        20.1
Agriculture ,                              .6     3.7       4.8       4.6      .         Agriculture                             365.1        16.2
Other S;conomic Services                11.6      3.0      13.6      14.0     .          Industry and M.ininig                    85.9         3.8
Administration sod Defenlse             59.3    59.6        ,2.6     4~8.5 a             Power                                   330.5        14.'
.'Ti~~~~~~~~~~r ~~~3.8                 4.1        4.7      1~                  Transport and connsnicaticns           858.7        38.1
Total Current Expenditures             10.       0.        000.0   00                    Other                                   1L60. 0       7.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   T otall EEx en dItures  2,2 5 3.4   100.
SELECTE3:D7'TR                                    1960-      196 7    197 1    197 6       FINANCING
(Calculated from 33-year averaged data)           1965       197 1    193 6    1981
Av,eraee ICOR                                       ..       *70    777   -76                  Public S,-ctor Savings              652.0        28.9
Lepor,: Elasticity                                 ..    .1              .54     .89          Program aid counterpart              295.0       13.1
Aargina1 Domestic Savings Rate                                 .08       .23     .28          Foreign Project Aid                   0             .
1.33 
Marginal National Savings Rate                                 .08       .14     .24          Total- Financing                   2234         It-
LAS,OF FCPCE ANDf                              Tctel :.abor Foc    /-Value Added Per Worker '19   -                                  Prices & Sxc.
-j:7u2  -ul WOR.ICE             In yillinof  Total                        T7T- 74         In  . S. Dollars    Percent of Aver ge         19 
____                    7     19__7     ro-th Rate          19        19          10        19         Growthi Rate
s4rutury                      8,53 ,53            10        5.            4.7               ...                  .
Industre                     ll-4,1:   13L.131    -0.3         5.
noat applicable       -niel or negligible            jI Including construction and public utilities.
*.nct available        -  less than half the              Modern sector oniy.
smallest onit shown    ~bllic sector savings, nluding stabiliczation fLnd sombus, less amortizatio  of tol     eht.



- 27-                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
EUiLI Or PAX2M4l  XVItUAL AW32AI.CE "0D MM?
r.Oam t  1i. .il1onA  or -.a. dol at - o'rent pirn."e
Avg. krlOA1
A0tLa                       fttiat.d                     1373rnettad                                                G      .r0th .
9 19(3     l9y          91 i9       919         197           L9         199          90          oo am                  1
STRO0RY 391211cE O? PA9 ?S
Export. (j. 39)                     376.0       576.2      6e4.7        650.7        798.9       1,030.4    1,077.3    1,150.8    1,24.4    1,399.0    1,557.7            12.0
7nport913c1 ( .    NPS0422.0                       514.8      703.1       792.0        925.5       1,161.5     1,19ft.0    1,340.6     1,385.1     1,639.0    1,783.7        U1.6
9Dit 0rce  8e  (7-M)                               01.4         7 W      142.0       .120.o        -131.1       -114.77                            -239.4      .  226.i       3.9
-6.2       -9.8      -11.3        -14.6        -25.0         .42.4       -49.5      -56.3       -67.4       .73.2       -85.9        25.8
Dl~   -f.n  Tzw.                        --3.2      115.5      -27.2        -30.2       -36.2         .39 9       -65.8       -53.7       .60.6       -69.7      -80.2        1.
~k k ,9 niRsittaoo.                    -3004      4-1 4       -34.2        -30.0        -31.2        .368         .00.4      -43 . 5 7    40.9        53.8       -59 02       10.4
r 1L.9                                             6.5       12.8         25.3         20.6          30.6        33.6       37.0        40.7         35         46.6       .1.3
u                    -I..      --                                    -.             M.        -201.                               - 377 Z
tvae Dire.t  ,Mt_cnt                    -7.5        15.2       24.5         34.5         37.9         43.8        71.0        77.5        93.0       100.0       105.0        19.'
Clicr4-l Capltal  *Ornt.                11.2        13.9       19.7         30.1         27.4         22.4        22.4        22.0        32.4        30.0        30.0         .5
PNblic '%TT Loa
IOit b                                69.3        50.3       73.0        138.9       211.2         236.3       234.6       317.1       049.4       385.2       389.8        13.i
-7.1       011.8     -14.3        -80.5        -28.3        -40.2       -62.2       -73.8       -79.3       -97.4      -105.6        2i.2
57        -Dr                               3 .:  9           i     .     170.          7.7       28.2        10.5
Jthrr ILIT Wa-u
34.7        9.4       21.3         30.3         .-            *      .          ..          ..
-R*paSets          -7.5        -8.0      -17.2        -13.2         ..            ..          ..         _             ..
Uapit.l fra-onctLa9  r..a.i.    _       19.3                                -3.0        -254.1                                       1 4 ti             _97                 97
Chat-oe in Nt a..v.                      -.2        30.7      -52.5          4.8         -4.40                                S
u36t  D  OutK&6oo..d  274.2    372.1    531.3    b60.5                 1.153.3
0ft3c RaL 3r'tt  & Ormnt-lk2.           01.9        47.8       77.0         .-            *-          tAoO00t o  Public D0bt       11.2      15.1      19.6      28.0         44.2
PRU-.U 1PXai DvTe bt b    t  14.1      20.8      20.3    20.7           57.0
Th0.11~~~~~~~~~C 1017 lOan.                                                 799.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toa  Rohlio Debt ServIc  35.3  35.9  39.9  52.7  101.8
,SRD                                  25.71       34.1        1.0        34.3          *-           ther Debt Sorft. (n t)       .
1DA                                   24.0         -         21.Z         25.0         ..          7ot1L Debt S-vdo (t)          ..        ..
1tl,, Wat.lat.rol                     16.3         -         10.8         30.8         ..        8urd   n Export sr6sp  ()
82.5        06.8      99.7         29.4
I7ppl-.0                                 4          .9        7.1          7.6          ..           ubLiC Drbt SWoc.             4.1       5.4       5.6       5.7          7.6
7r4c.a.2 Insjutiontt                   -          64.6       27.8         87.3         ..          Total Debt Swi.                          ..
001.1                                  -           -          -.           -            *-                  tt         I,,t. .. T..WirC9             ..vat     ..          ..
711t10- loan. n.e.l.                   -           -          -          20.0          ..
SotL  bLi fiL    r                  40S                  zTao                        . 15.     O". Ts&.<l  Pebi  De3t
UTMAL DBkC                        ketVAL699.10.6  OeAt9.im9  on Di.. 31. 79                 Tot. a. 9 Proro 0.W M&D        0.7       5.5       5.3       5.3         5.1
Ax1UIld iBk                                  0LISo" 0.2Se   P7                          - .            A_ rt. - S     ar rr0rrrD 2mu    6.0     7.6       5.5       4 6          6.7
IDA                                             107.6                     9.3                      ZEh D0.t 0. i Dieursd           28.7      49.7      57.5      71.6        102.4
Other ALtil.trl                                 106.0                     9.0                            Z 4S SP ic ebbt O&        10.5     13.4      10.8       6.3          8.9
Gov2n nts                          ~~~~~          ~         ~~~        ~        ~       ~~419.0  36.3  '  SPtlbUq D bt SW-t.  a.3  10.3    11.8      10.5        1-3.3
qunnl1 9.                                       139.2                    00.1
7103911.1 1otltotl.ons                          181.2                    24.4                      1i Dsbt Out. & DJsbu.rsd        34.1      49.9      i7.8      93.4       107.6
Boot                                              _                                                     aSPti   etOD               1.         34       L2.a      10.6           .
ThnbL.1 0.61. -o1                                                                                           Public Debt 060        12.4                12.8910.
_______                                                     8 Pts nb Obt 0 erviot     1.2        .3       1.2       1.1          5.8
7      btali. PubLi   0.Db                    1,1t53.4
Othor .0 DObt.
Short-t-r  Debt (di.b. -ry)
tot appli.bj.                                                 * staf esti_t.
tot a0dlabl.                                                  - nil or tegO..ibl.
...   not  .ilabl. ..prtuly                                 --  l tsa  htan balf tb.
but n1rblded In totl                                           em1.t unit aboun



-28-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITEI) REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                            Amount
Credit                                                       (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                       Bank  IDA/1  Undisbursed
Eight Credits and eight Loans have been fully             77.73  99.4          -
disbursed
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                           9.0        2.88
983-CM    1974  Cameroon    Livestock                     11.6                0.75
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                          6.5                0.91
574-CM    1975  Cameroon    Niete Rubber Project                  16.0        0.16
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    DFC - Small- and Medium-
Sca:Le Enterprises                3.0        1.42
S4-CM     1976  Regifercam  Railways                       2.3                0.20
1245-CM   1976  Cameroon    Educat:ion III                17.0              13.39
1321-CM   1976  NPAC          Seconcl Douala Port         15.0                4.02
672-CM    1976  Cameroon    Plaineb des M'Bo
Rural Development                    2.0       0.61
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                   4.5        3.56
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                 7.0       5.75
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM                7.0                4.69
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM               18.0              12.07
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                           6.5       4.72
1494-CM   1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                   4.6                4.60
1508-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second CAMfEV                 15.0                9.33
776-CM    1978  Cameroon    Zapi East Integrated
Agrizulture                       8.5        7.39
784-CM    1978  Cameroon    Western Highlands
Rura:L Development               13.0       12.71
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    Second SEMRY Rice             14.5              12.86
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Third Hfighway                16.5                0.77
926-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                        10.0        9.54
1723-CM   1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                38.0               38.00
936-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Railway                        20.0      20.00
1734-CM   1979  Regifercam  Fourth Railway                27.0              27.00
1753-CM/2 1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply           21.0              21.00
975-CM/3 1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                           15.0       15.00
1791-CM/3 1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                    16.5              16.50
TOTAL                                   310.20 213.90    228.83
of which has been repaid               12.06   5.46
TOTAL now outstanding                   298.14 208.44
Amount sold                    7.72
of which has been repaid   6.35         1.37
TOTAL now held by Blank                 296.77 208.44
and IDA /1
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                       145.09  83.74    228.83
1/   Prior to exchange adjustmeint.
2/   Not yet effective.
3/   Approved but not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1980)
Investment Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor      Type of Business      Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Ec ty   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA         Shoe Factory            -       0.38     0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation        -       0.81     0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation        -       0.41     0.41
452-CM      1979    ALUCAM       Non-ferrous metal    7.00      0.93      7.93
Total gross commitments                                7.00      2.53     9.53
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                              -      0.25      0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                      7.00      2.28     9.28
Total undisbursed                                      7.00         -     7.00
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 320    Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28. 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation, except for
the adult vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala, which is expected
to open in early 1980. The preinvestment studies have been completed.
Project implementation is about three years behind schedule due to delays
in construction and in the legal establishment of the CENAFOP; the original
Credit closing date of June 30, 1979, has been postponed to June 30, 1982.
Cr. No. 429    Second Highway Project:  US$24 million Credit of
Ln. No. 935    September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:  December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978: and US$24
Loan of same date: Effectiveness Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction of two sections totalling 225 km of the Douala-Foumban
road and construction of the Figuil-Mora section (165 km) of the Trans-
Cameroon rail and road route was completed by 1978. Technical assistance to
the Ministry of Equipment and Housing and the Ministry of Transportation was
provided and pre-investment studies on highway maintenance and forestry roads
were carried out. Because of world wide price increases, project costs more
than doubled. In 1976, the Bank Group provided a US$15 million Supplementary
Credit and deleted the Garoua-Figuil road section from the project. The
remaining cost overrun was financed by the Government. Bank Group participa-
tion in total project cost was 44 percent against 68 percent originally
estimated.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Loan No. 983   Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led
to cost overruns.  The tsetse-fly eradication campaign has cleared about
500,000 of the originally planned total of 800,000 ha and spraying would
continue under the proposed second project. The credit scheme has exceeded
the appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate of repayment is good. Slaugh-
terhouse construction although nearing completion has been halted because of a
conflict between SODEPA and the contractor over financial claims by the
contractor. Government is assessiag its options, one of which is to undertake
the completion of the facilities itself. If this occurs, Yaounde could be
operating by mid-1980. Douala however would be delayed for up to one year.
Additional training of slaughterhouse managers is under consideration. The
SODEPA ranches have become the least successful of the project components, in
spite of completed physical development. Lower than expected technical
performance, as well as delayed implementation and rising cattle prices have
cast doubt on the continued financiLal viability of these ranches. Alternate
means of dealing with SODEPA's financial situation are being analyzed with
Government. The proposed second project would help Government expand the
successful components of this project.
Loan No. 1039 Cocoa Project: US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although farmers responded well to the general increase in producer
price, recommended by the Bank, project physical targets are not met and a
cost overrun is expected. Serious organizational problems have developped and
became worse as a result of the long-delayed nomination of a qualified general
manager for SODECAO.  At the Bank's request, a reorganization study was
carried out by independent consultanits whose recommendations have been
accepted by the Bank but not in its entirety by the Government. The appoint-
ment of the general manager (approved by the Bank) was formally announced on
March 10, 1980 together with some structural changes for SODECAO. The Bank
has urged Government to remedy overstaffing and improve financial management
and cooperative organization impairing SODECAO's effectiveness.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 575    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:  US$3
million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The line of credit is almost fully committed and disbursements
have reached 50 percent. A second line of credit is under consideration.
Loan No. 1734 Fourth Railway Project: US$27 million loan of
Cr. No. 936    August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983 and US$20 million of same
date; Effectiveness Date: August 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The bidding and contracting phase of the project is in progress.
The contracts for civil works for the New Douala Station have been finalized
and the earth works are proceeding satisfactorily. The bids for equipment
and materials are now being evaluated and all the contracts will be let out
shortly. The other elements of the project (i) the training program and
(ii) detailed engineering studies for the workshop remodelling and the new
maintenance depots in Yaounde are in progress and are on schedule. Bids
for civil works in workshops and the depots will be floated by mid 1980.
Loan No. 1245-T      Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The lower secondary technical school in Douala is partly in opera-
tion, pending completion of additional site development works, and contracts
have been awarded for construction of two lower secondary schools and the
institute for agricultural techniques (ITA). The balance of the construction
is held up pending a Government review of measures it plans to take to over-
come cost overruns of 30 percent. As a consequence of delays in issuing bid
documents and in taking decisions to resolve the cost overruns, the project
is about two years behind schedule. Agricultural technician training pro-
grams are underway in temporary facilities, pending completion of construc-
tion of the ITA. There has been limited progress with preinvestment studies
for a future education project. Project implementation has been slowed by
inadequate and late provision of counterpart funds and by changes of project
management.



- 32 
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1321   Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million loan
Cr. No. 657    of September 24  lQ76j Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981 and US$10
million Credit of same date: Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well.  Proposals to construct a second container berth and to incorporate
facilities at the container berths to handle increasing volumes of roll
on roll off traffic have been accepted by donors. Although latest cost
estimates indicate a higher total cost for the extended project, this has been
covered by pledges of additional financing from some of the other donors
and Government. Due to sound management, and timely and adequate tariff
increases, the Port Authority's finaancial situation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 672    Plaine des M'Bo Rurial Development Project:  US$2
million Credit of February 28, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: August 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1978 results show that the yields obtained under medium and
heavy mechanization stay below the financial break-even point. Double crop-
ping appears impractical while agronomic trials are being continued. There
have been delays in conducting experiments with small farm models with low
mechanization in preparing a settlement scheme for full development of the
Plaine. The experimentation program is being improved, with emphasis on
developing an adequate date base or. smallholder rice cultivation. Government
has agreed to contribute an additional US$955,000 to extend the project
to June 1980C
Cr. Nc. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
About 90 perCent of the project's funds are now committed, primarily
in the areas of agriculture, transport and planning. The project's central
coordinating unit in the Ministry oE Planning appears to be delegating more
responsibility than in the past.  This has resulted in an acceleration of
project implementation, particularly in the recruitment of long-term advisory
consultazzts. A tr:aiming component is tuider preparation by the Department of
Studi@s and Projects in the Ministry of Agriculture which has been reviewed by
the Bank and is -xpec ted to begiTn soon.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978: Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused by delays in setting up FSAR, slow
delivery, breakdown of equipment and weak field coordination, most sub-
projects are now progressing effectively. More progress is required (i) from
FSAR in improving its coordinating, monitoring and cost control activities,
and (ii) from Government in strengthening the participation of government
services and agencies responsible for individual sub-projects (SEMRY, in
particular, has been reminded to expedite implementation of the bottomland
development sub-project). Improvements in the organization and accounting
framework of FONADER, of which FSAR is a part, now underway, could help to
improve FSAR's administrative performance and are being followed by the
Bank.
Ln. No. 1392   Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
Third Window Loan:  US$7 million of August 25,
197,; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings under the project are satisfactory though implementa-
tion is slightly behind schedule. Production potential from earlier plantings
is not being achieved due to labor problems, inadequate maintenance aad
processing difficulties. In consequence SOCAPALM's revenues from bearing
areas are below expectations. In agreement with Government appropriate
measures have been taken to strengthen the company including the recruitmnent
of new staff for certain key posts. Government recently approved a 5th
capital increase. The Coastal Estates Center has been established to provide
services to a group of plantation companies with common interests, including
CANDEV and HEVECAM (Loan 1508-CM and Credit 574-CM), but a satisfactory site
for the construction of its headquarters has not yet been found.
Cr. No. 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494   US$6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
About 2000 km of feeder roads will be improved and maintained
under the project. The technical assistance team is working satisfactorily;
the Central Feeder Roads Unit has been established, equipment ordered atiI
local staff recruited and trained. Due to administrative delays in equipment
procurement, major field operations are about one year behind schedule, but
are expected to start soon.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 763    Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512   of February li 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date:  September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1, 1978; Effective Date:
April 14, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and generally
on schedule. M4anagement and organization are efficient and performance is
very good. The main civil works are practically completed and on-farm works,
constructed on force account, are on schedule. The first irrigated crop
has been harvested in December 1979. The resettlement of some 6,000 people
displaced by the reservoir has been successfully carried out. Cost have
remained within appraisal estimates although there may be a shortfall because
of currency realignment. There are two outstanding problems, both in the
process of being solved. The first relates to the main dike of the project
which showed localized seepage and erosion of the upstream slope after the lake
was filled in mid-1979. This is currently under study by consultants and
corrective measures are being taken. The cost of permanent protection works
may exceed US$5 million, thus increasing the total project cost by about 8%.
The second problem relates to a slowdown of sales of rice produced under the
project because of imports at lower prices. This problem is being solved
by rice exports to Nigeria which absorbed available stocks while Government is
taking measures to improve marketing of domestic rice production.
Ln. No. 1508   Second CA11DEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The second CAIDEV project is making satisfactory progress and
development of the new rubber estate at Kompina is proceeding on schedule.
Some reallocation of areas to be planted under the project has been necessary
due to a shortfall at Tombel, where some 600 ha have had to be rejected as
unsuitable for industrial rubber plantings, but the physical objectives
are expected to be realized without undue difficulty. All key posts have
been filled and are staffed by personnel acceptable to the Bank. Small-
holders' interest in rubber is encouraging though some difficulty has been
experienced in attracting candidates to plant oil palms. Preparation of
CAMDEV III is proceeding and the preparation report is expected to be ready
by the end of October 1980. Yields from the company's existing plantations
were below expectation in 1979 and this has resulted in liquidity problems
due to a shortage of self-generated funds.
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last section of the
Trans-Cameroon rail and road route, was completed in 1979.  Technical assis-
tance to the Mfinistry of Transportation will strengthen the transport sector
data base and improve planning. A US$5.6 million cost overrun is expected
mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations which will be covered by the Govern-
ment.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Recruitment by UCCAO of key project staff is progressing satisfac-
torily. Tenders have been called for project vehicles, equipment and
materials. Design and planning of project buildings is going ahead. Satis-
factory operation agreements have been concluded with ONAREST for agricultural
research and with Genie Rural for village water supply and bottomland develop-
ment. A suitable site of some 500 ha for the seed farm has been identified
and steps are being initiated to secure land use rights for UCCAO. In accor-
dance with the Project and Credit Agreements, Government has deposited working
funds in the Project Advance Account. Overall, initial project activities are
progressing satisfactorily and no special problems require attention at this
point in time.
Cr. No. 776    Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project continues to make progress, with processing and market-
ing of coffee and cocoa steadily improving, but activities in training and
agricultural production behind schedule. ZAPI staff has been increased signifi-
cantly, with all key positions now filled. Coffee processing machinery has
been partially installed; vehicles have been purchased; an improved repair and
maintenance system has been instituted; and radio communications have been
established between all ZAPI districts. The building program has-been delayed
because of inflation but further progress is expected when Zapi's financial
position is clarified following an ongoing audit and detailed financial
analysis, to be completed by May 1980.
Cr. No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln. No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The Government has pre-qualified five firms for the extensive
training program for road maintenance in November 1979. The Bogo-Guirvidig
road (34 km) which will serve the Senry II rice project in northern Cameroon,
is the first road to be reconstructed to all weather gravel standards among
some 325 km roads selected for rehabilitation by contract. The preinvestment
study for the Douala-Yaounde road was revised reflecting Bank Group comments.
The Bank Group is currently considering, together with other financing
agencies, the financing of the Yaounde-Edea section of this road under a
proposed Fifth Highway Project.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAI4EROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: ten months.
(b) Project prepared by: a consulting firm employed by the
Government to manage the first
Livestock Development Project.
(c) Date of firsi: IDA mission to consider the project:
March 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: February 26,1979
(A brief follow-up
mission took place in
November 1979)
(e) Negotiations completed: March 7, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 15, 1980
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.   The Government would:
(a) provide an assurance (corresponding to Section 3.04 of
the Loan Agreement for the first Livestock Project)
to maintain the protection of the tsetse-freed
zone (para 44);
(b)  ensure that the Special Mlission would make surveys
to define the southern limit of infestation, and
define the northern perimeter to be defended,
preparing a detailed plan for the defense of this
perimeter for IDA's approval not later than
June 30, 1980. It would also submit its plan for
the continuation of subsequent spraying campaigns
at that time (para 44);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c)  ensure that MINEL would provide staffing and facilities
to establish, with the Special Mission, four posts for
the control of cattle re-entering the tsetse freed zone
in the Adamaoua Plateau (para 45);
(d) employ, or otherwise secure the services of technical
assistance staff, whose services at one time or
another during the project execution period would
amount to about 46 man-years, and whose qualifica-
tions and terms of reference would be acceptable
to IDA (para 48);
(e)  ensure that the annual work program including cost
estimates of the Special Mfission be submitted for
review and approval by the lending agencies three
months ahead of the beginning of each financial year
and would semi-annually make available to FONADER,
SODEPA and MINEL the funds necessary to carry
out the project (para 34);
(f) prepare a detailed program including a timetable
for its execution for achieving a more economic and
efficient use of the resources of the three SODEPA
ranches of Dumbo, Ndokayo and Faro, acceptable to
IDA, by not later than June 30, 1980 (para 38);
(g) finalize and submit for IDA's approval a training
program to be carried out within the Special Mission
by not later than September 30, 1980 (para 47);
(h) following a satisfactory evaluation of the ongoing
project by the co-lenders jointly with MINEL during
the first semester of 1982, undertake preparation of
a possible follow-up project in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA prepared by PCU and
MINEL by not later than June 30, 1982, by specialists
with qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 41).
B.   Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the
Project Coordinator be employed and in post and that
a subsidiary financing agreement be entered into between
Government and FONADER (paras 42, 43).
C.   A condition of disbursement for the credit and tsetse
eradication components would be that the FRG loan
for these elements is effective and that arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the technical assistance to be
provided by the FRG in their respect have been made (para
51).






*  *   .  0.   ~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~   4-   *          .~-  F 
j0 K  t>                                                    -1Nf,N   A
V                        .?~~~V5
a.                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r~~~~~~~~~~,I
L NN~~~~~~~~~-
T IN ~ ~ ~ ~ V 
NRL =`h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ (
~~lz V[ O N I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~






I BR O 14522R
0;54  trEGSt    -2S' ffi   452;    50   fr;:||        2s0'                                      UNITED  REPlJUNITED  REPUBLIC  OF CAMEROON
;r     :r -!: el                            Second Livestock Development Project
TSETSE FLY ERADICATION PROJECT AREA
- - i                                                       Proect perimeter, Marcn 1978                                      Reg-lar surve:llance with ground spray as required
/ ~~~  -  ,.**~~~~/             Proposed adjustment to northern pe,imeter                    ?     Faro- Benue tongue, fined wing or ground spray
Tsetse limit contirgency cone, 30% possbly infested                Possible fiyea wing lbsfer zone
J   /-'~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Important G. Morsitans recordls                                            0     Cuarre nt coat tlIe ent ry con t rolI poin t and/o r 'setse controlI p ickert
___ .fi :t -   --J   ( 5L AretoN          iHelicopter spray limits;                                           Land abcve 1200meters
3 * - a  i}   )    - ;-REpi,gt3C *:   ___;  Comp,ered 1977-78                                    '      State capital
CAMEROON ~                                       _ Projected  1978 79                                              0 Towns or villages
,C A M E  ROON  k   E   ;L. :f .t-Not sprayed 1976-77                                              Major roads
'5   <r''              ?: - W    ,Ground spray insecticide barrier:                                   Minor roads
~~Qr5At0fOs4~~~~~~~~c  >                          h~~as t, ecotonale                                                Motorcable tracks
__         -         OA tt~~~ -4         W,~   West, all relict tree cover                            ----.---Railway
GA~_  b0te    c     t 0     ffi = ef                   ecotona e                                         -*--  i- Riversonal boundary
12Q00'      /
KILOMETERS 0                20             40               vr              0              10C
/                      - \ > o/\ A          MILES 0             t           20           30          40           50           50
N IGERIA   j                              sr.
a Mayo bleo0    Ga waVo
F{f  9  u                      b    >   (t  j-SK  J    )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-SE-n~
Ke30-                                                                                                   Ce,                            - M -  T /4 l3Co
t                                                                                                                   -     Elangl                a   54
e  ~o~050~  -  o ~        NGACUN  ERE
* A ~~~~~Wa s3   // 1 v7   tsI4e
LS Miambgiaa                                                                                                                                                             en 2  
!~Sbringol
Tsmbfb Mrf  /Womif am ssvsrs /yf'e c                                                                                                          anduru                  - 
Jumlboarw.,                                       i                                                                                X
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~a
of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Be 1odr ofgerst  f.h1Zs9  e Tfdumaw sdod h'                                                          )
Meijamba                                                                        1
12~~~~~~30'  ~ ~       ~         3'0TO t'u--du                              i3300



