Document of                   FILE  rapr
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2690-CM
CAMEROON
STAFF APPRAISAL
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 18, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =          CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                  =           CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000            =          US$4.8
CFAF 1,000,000        =          FF 4,762
1/   Floating Exchange Rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CZV       -    Centre Zootechnique et Veterinaire
FONADER   -    Fonds National de Developpement Rural
(National Fund for Rural Development)
FRG       -    Federal Republic of Germany
MINEL     -    Ministere de l'Elevage et des Industries Animales
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
SODEPA    -    Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation
des Productions Animales
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T&twbl  oE Contents
Page No.
I.          BACKGROUND e .....        ... e.e.e. e e...eee...eee...............................  1
A.    Project Background   . ......e. . .....e        ......e.....e.e.eee..     
B.    Agriculture and the Cameroonian Economy  .....                       ...eea.. 
C.    The Livestock Subsector  ....**...........e....e..o.ee.e.e                        2
D.    Institutions Responsible for Livestock Develo                  _ .1....           5
E.    Livestock Development Strategy  .......ee...ee.ee,eeeee...                        8
lII.          ESULTS OF FIRST            C   ..................... -     .  . .e e.e.e.e    . ...  8
A.   Physical Achievements  ?               ..eee e e  .eeeeeeeeee. e  e.e.....         9
B.   Organizational and Managerial Results  ...e....ee              .........           9
C.    Financial Results  ................................                              i
D.    Implications for the Second Project  ........ .. .. e,...                        13
III.        TEE PROJECT AREA  .e.e           ....................e...........e.ee.           13
IV.         THE PROJECT         .       .................... ......                          14
A.    Objectives and Summary Description  .               .    .    ...eee . .. e.14
B.   Detailed Features  .......e..Ce..         ..ee   ........ee.e.e....eee            16
(i)         The Private Sector Credit Program  .............                     16
(ii)        Strengthening SODEPA  .......e..........e.....e                      20
(iii)       Tsetse Fly Eradication  e.......e......e........                    20
(iv)        Veterinary Field Services   e.....e..e..eeee....                    23
(v)         Trainîng   e ...........e e e.  e  e e e e   e e  . e  . e e  e e e e e e e ee  23
(vi)        Preparation of Possible Follow-up Project  ee...                    25
V.          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  e              ................ e . .................     26
A.    Project Organization and Management  ........e..e.ee..                           26
B.    Project Implementation  ..e.......              ........ .........ee             26
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation,  Reporting Requirements,
Completion Report ................ e e        0 ...........ee                 30
VI.         COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS  ...............                        30
A.    Project Costs  ....................................                     .        30
B.   Proposed Financing  .. ....e .................. .                 .. .            31;
C.   Procurement              . ............................                           33
D.    Disbursernent ................... e......... e e.......                          35
E.   Accounts and Audits . ......... . ..... o..* ..... *                              37
This document has a restricted diotribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. lI contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (con't)
Page No.
VII.      TECHNOLOGY AND TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS ...............    ..       37
A.   Productivity ............................................          37
B.   Animal Health ...........................................          40
VIII.     MARYETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .41
A. IIarket Prospects .41
B. Prices and Market Structure .41
C. Financial Analysis .42
IX.       BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......................          44
A.   Project Benefits and Beneficiaries ......................          44
B.   Environraental Impact ................................             45
C.   Economic Prices .........................................          45
D.   Economic Analysis .......................................          46
E.   Risks ...................................................          47
X.        ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOUOENDATIONS ....       ..........   49
APPENDIX: Project Coordination Unit: Terns of Reference
ANNEXES:
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Disbursement Schedule
Table 3 - Governnent Cash Flow
Table 4 - FONADER Cash Flow
Table 5 - Sumnary of Producer and Consumer Benefits
IAPS:      No. 14521R - Location of Project Activities
No. 14522R - Tsetse Fly Eradication Project Area



CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   PoetBcrcd
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested !DA assistance in financ-
ing a second livestock development project, estimated to cost US$39.9 million,
that would broaden the development of cattle, swine and poultry production, to
meet the growing domestic demand for meat and diversify rural economic produc-
tion.
1.02      Preparation was conducted by the consuilting firm employed by Govern-
ment to manage the first project. The second project would follow the com-
pletion of the first, foreseen for mid-1980, and would run for a period of
four years. It would be the fourteenth agricultural project financially
assisted by the Bank Group in Cameroon, and the fourth second-stage project so
financed.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission,
composed of Messrs. J. Gamba, A. Rychener, N. Nissen, R. Crown (IBRD), M.
Walshe and K. MacLennan (Consultants), with the participation of M. Lindau
and J. Lagemann (FRG), which visited Cameroon in February/March 1979. A
follow-up mission visited Cameroon in November 1979.
B.   Agriculture and the Cameroonian Economy
1.04      Cameroon's gross national product was about US$3.6 billion in 1978,
which, with a population of 7.9 million, gave a per capita income of about
US$460. Cameroon is thus within a group designated by the Bank as lower
middle-income developing countries (annual per capita income of US$280-550,
averaging US$432). Agriculture plays a major role in the economy and accounts
for about 40% of GNP, including recorded livestock production (cattle, swine
and poultry) accounting for about 9% of agricultural production. The average
per capita income level for the agricultural population--which accounts for
65% of the total--is currently just above US$150, or 54% of the national
average. About 40% of the rural population is believed to live below the
rural poverty level of US$85 per annum, compared with about 15% of the urban
population which lives below the urban poverty level of US$112 per annum.
1.05      Real economic growth in Cameroon over 1971-76 was about 3% . accom-
panied by general inflation of about 10% per annum. During the same period,
agricultural growth was about 3.6% per year. This was slower than the 6% rate
achieved in the late 1960s and was caused by a drop in the volume oL cocoa and
coffee, Cameroon's main export crops. The situation has improved, however,
and agricultural growth over 1976-81 is expected to be about 5.5% (with



overall real GNP growth about 6%) which Wou ld be 2.3 percentage points above
the population growth rate of 3.2%. Calories and protein consumption per
capita exceeds those cf comparator countries. Imported food grain and milk
contribute to this favorable situation. However, the consumption of animal
protein is less than for comparator countries.
1.06      Agricul ture employs about 2.6 million people (84% of the rural
labor force), including about 100,000 in the processing sector. Of the total
land area of 475,000 km, about 38% or about 18 million ha is devoted to
agriculture. Close to 90% of the agricultural land is grazing land. The
principal food crops are maize, millet and sorghum, cassava and groundnuts.
Industrial crops, în addition to cocoa and coffee, include oil palm, rubber,
cotton and tobacco.  Taken together, industrial crops account for about 56% of
Cameroon's export earnings--with an additional 14% being earned by other
agricultural products. Food, beverages and tobacco account for 7% of the
country's imports. Silviculture contributes about 8% of overall agricultural
output and an additional 12% of the value of exports.
1.07      Cameroon is becoming increasingly urbanized, with an urban population
of 2.2 million people (29% of the total population).  The annual urban growth
rate is 7.1%, against only 1.9% in rural areas. The principal cities of
Douala and Yaounde now contain 10% Oa  the total population.  General inflation
for the period 1976-8l is forecast to be 9%; however, the rate of increase in
the consumer price index for the cities has traditionally exceeded the growth
in the national index. Food price increases in particular have consistently
exceeded the general levels of price increase by about one percentage point.
Moreover the process OL urbanization has also accentuated a change in prefer-
ences and eating habits, ïllustrated by a per capita consumption of meat of
about 21 kg in urban centers compared to 11.5 kg for rural dwellers. These
factors illustrate the need for a growing supply of meat to control increased
real food costs for a growing segment of the Cameroonian population.
C. Th1e Livestock Subsector
1.0e      Li VatoC.   .jcff?c  f:s <çalued at about CFAF 265 billion (US$120
million) amnnuaIly ?i vhe -La5ve-eock population comprises about 3 million cattle,
4 million sheep and goats, `.9 amillion pigs and about 10 million poultry.
AboutL 75% of tho         ar  ;xpcn ti-e northern zone and on the Adamaoua
plae-_a' while r'gS' eInd 7p olnr-v are concentrated in the southern and western
zons.  C  a      o-aai  asis  the nnnaf offtake rate of the livestock herd is
abfu-  a30                            rumorI Zor   aafl riuminants (sheep and goats), 60% for swine
and 10i0, I0cr  ou     ?re          growth of the livestock herd is estimated at
about 2% r,                         rUmIonns5% for pigs and poultry.  Cattle
movement ac,  *.-E                   îs iS difficult to control, especially since
Cameroon bor de _ 5        ''2 ad9, th   entra1 ,'_frican Republic, and Nigeria around its
northern r                       uumonca is cammon.  Thus, the international
trade-^ i?wm .     ` Sd ,' w t  - assess.  Exports of live cattle were



-3-
estimated at 30,000 head inI 1975/76 and 23,000 head in 1976/77--about 8% of
the national production. Official imports of cattle, which were some 46,000
head in 1975/76, have practically disappeared as the inflow from Chad stopped
after the recent Sahelian drought. On the other hand, the withdrawal of
export licences for beef and pork from several large domestic producers has
virtually terminated exports of these products, and imports of meat and meat
products are only a few hundred tons at most.
1.09      Cattle.  Cattle herding is a traditional occupation of the nomadic
and semi-nomadic M'Bororo and Foulbe pastoralists. The M'Bororo live in
northern and eastern Cameroon, and, in the western part of the Adamaoua
Plateau (Map 14521), and are nomads to whom national borders mean little. The
Foulbe inhabit the Adamaoua Plateau and extend westward into the North-West
Province. The majority of the herds range in size from about 30 to 75 head
and are mostly owned by families of about 10 people. The number of settled
M'Bororo is extremely small. They tend to be more specialized as herdsmen
with a greater range of herd sizes than the Foulbe. The Foulbe produce crops
as well as cattle.
1.10      There are about 100,000 M'Bororo herdsmen who own about one-third
of the national cattle herd. Their transhumance and migration cycles have
traditionally covered pastures including parts of Nigeria, Cameroon, the
CAR and Chad. The herds are kept primarily as a source of food and as a
symbol and storehouse of wealth and are sold only to pay for essential food
and household goods. Milk forms a high proportion of the family diet and milk
sales are the main source of cash income. The Foulbe, in contrast, live
mainly in settled villages. Traditionally, during the dry season, they graze
their herds (except for milking animals kept close to the homestead) in
lower-lying, usually tsetse fly infested valleys. During the wet season
animals are kept on the higher lying grazing land surrounding the homestead.
Recent attractive cattle prices and a growing desire for consumer goods are
inducing Foulbe herdsmen towards commercial exploitation of their herds.
1.11      Cattle production in Cameroon is characterized by low productivity
resulting from low production coefficients such as a calving rate of about
45%, a calf mortality of about 25%, an adult mortality of about 6%, and an
average carcass weight of 160 kg. The resulting annual offtake rate is only
about 10% compared up to 30% in Europe. Inadequate feeding (both quality and
quantity) and a high incidence of disease are responsible for this low produc-
tivity and constitute the main constraints on cattle production. For example,
during the dry season cattle commonly lose up to 20% of their liveweight. The
traditional cattle-raising practices, which until the advent of the first
livestock project had remained unchanged for centuries, are also responsible
for low productivity. Pastoralists practiced transhumance in an attempt to
overcome the tsetse scourge and to provide feed when uncontrolled burning
destroyed the grazing on higher ground. Land tenure rights did not enable
individual cattle owners to lease and fence areas and therefore uncontrolled
overgrazing and burning was inevitable and universal. The problem was further
exacerbated by the advance of tsetse into regions such as the Adamaoua Plateau
which until recent times had been fly free.



- 4 -
1.12      A major objective of the first livestock project was to explore
the possibility of establishing settled ranches on leased land. It was
realized that settled ranches would enable the major constraints such as feed
shortages, uncontrolled burning, disease and the need to practice transhumance
to be overcome. The provision of credit under the first project encouraged
some herdsmen to settle on ranches of up to 1,000 ha each. Although these
ranches have not been operating for sufficiently long periods to fully assess
their technical performance, results to date are most encouraging and indicate
that settlement is proving successful in solving the main problems that
restrict production. However a general health hazard continues to exist (para
7.07), and a major constraint on animal productivity in the Adamaoua Plateau
is trypanosomiasis--a disease transmitted by tsetse flies. Tsetse fly
infestations have a dual effect retarding productivity--spreading disease,
and forcing migrations away from infested areas which eventually over-crowds
tsetse free areas. This situation is presently aggravated in the Adamaoua
Plateau by a southeastward advance of these flies (predominently Glossina
morsitans) and the further degradation of available grazing grounds.
1.13      Trypanosomiasis can be overcome by introducing trypanosomiasis-
tolerant N'Dama cattle, by exterminating tsetse flies, and by treating cattle
with prophylactic and curative drugs. Since N'Dama breeding stock is in
short supply and can cost up to three times as much as the more common Zebu
cattle, it would not be a cost-effective means of dealing with a tsetse
infestation of the geographic range or intensity currently experienced in the
Adamaoua Plateau, or where time is critical because of the fly's advance.
In savannah areas, however, where the vegetation is less dense, tsetse fly
extermination is feasible, and is the only satisfactory method of initially
containing trypanosomiasis. The first project campaigns have shown that a
system of eradication and maintenance of a protective barrier against
reinfestation can be effective (para 2.03). Prophylactic and curative drugs
are used on a large scale in Cameroon and these give the cattle limited
protection from trypanosomiasis. However, under the constant challenge of
highly infected G. morsitans tsetse flies, drugs must be used more frequently,
leading to drug resistance, and temporary lameness. In the program of tsetse
fly control in Cameroon the first priority has been to stop their advance, and
eliminate them from the central savannah areas (Map 14521). The means of
defending the northern perimeter has been to rely on natural barriers supple-
mented with selected ground spraying. This has been effective to date.
On completion, except for a border with the Central African Republic of about
60 km, the cleared areas would be protected from reinfestation by natural
barriers across the southern edge of the Adamaoua Plateau.
1.14      In addition to the private ranches and the three large parastatal
ranches established under the first project (para 2.01) there are also a few
large foreign-owned ranches in the country.
1.15      Pigs.  Since the traditional market does not offer a price differen-
tial for higher quality pork, little of such quality pork is produced. Until
recently commercial pig production was relatively unimportant although small
scale traditional production is widespread in the western and northwestern
region. Most of the pigs are kept in the traditional sector which uses



- 5 -
indigenous breeds. Output and productivity are extremely low for this
scavenger system--with weaning rates of about 5 piglets per sow per year,
and feed conversion of about 8 kg of feed per kg liveweight--where the average
producer keeps one or two pigs. Given the low level of technology, signifi-
cant production would not likely result from rising prices.
1.16      The small amount of quality pork that is produced comes from fatten-
ing improved breeds, kept under confined modern conditions. The producers
doing this supply the modern market for special cuts of pork in the main
cities of Douala and Yaounde. Prices are two to three times higher than those
in the traditional market. Weaning rates exceed 12 per sow per year, and feed
conversion approaches 4.5 kg of feed per kg liveweight. This technology,
however, demands considerable managerial ability, both in the area of animal
health--since under confined housing conditions, disease can spread rapidly--
and feeding--since maximum growth demands balanced diets.
1.17      Traditional sector production is constrained by the technology it
uses, the inefficiency of breeds, and the scarcity of feeds and medicines.
Considering the degree of attention required for successful production and the
traditional market conditions, production units are likely to remain relatively
small in the near future. FONADER is assisting this sector in its effort to
modernize through the provision of credit. But taking the limited managerial
experience of producers into account, efforts are being made to keep the scale
of operations within bounds that are likely to be successful, and to offer as
much technical advice as possible.
1.18      Poultry.  Almost all rural families keep fowl for home consumption
and occasional marketing. Various attempts, such as the introduction of high
performance breeding stock, have been made with some success to improve the
productivity of these small family flocks.  But although this type of produc-
tion provides useful nutritional enrichment in the rural area it is not
commercially competitive. A few relatively large-scale poultry enterprises,
using imported as well as locally produced day-old chicks and purchased
prepared feeds, operate in the western part of Cameroon. Flock sizes range
widely, with the majority having between 1,000 and 3,000 birds. The larger
establishments are located closer to Yaounde and Douala, where cull-birds and
eggs are marketed daily on a regular basis. These enterprises generally have
death rates below 8% for day-old chicks which is acceptable. The largest
units, with flocks of up to 10,000, rely almost entirely on imports of day-old
chicks and production equipment, but purchase their feed from the local
private sector. Nevertheless the health risk among flocks of this size
remains very high.
D. Institutions Responsible for Livestock Development
Ministere de l'Elevage et des Industries Animales (MINEL)
1.19      MINEL comprises (i) a secretariat, (ii) a directorate for production
and animal industries, (iii) a maritime fishing directorate, and (iv) field



-6 
services. These field services are organized under a system of provincial
delegates of the Mîtiscry, and include field services of the directorate for
production and animal industries (para 1.20), livestock production stations
(para 1.23), training institutions (para l122), field services of the maritime
fishing directorate and the Special Mission for the Eradication of Glossines
(para 1.21)?. Government is considerîng a change in this structure in which
animal health and animal husbandry services would become full directorates,
rather than being retained as services under the directorate for production
and animal industries. Such a development in central administration could
improve and broaden field services which have to date had a strong animal
health bias. It would, however, place demands on personnel not previously
trained adequately in this area. The proposed project--for other reasons
(para 1.22)--includes provisions for training that could help facilitate such
developments if they occur.
1.20      Field services of the present directorate of production and animal
industries are organized along provincial lines, with eight sectors, 26
subsectors, and 206 zootechnical and veterinary centers corresponding roughly
to "departements" and "arrondissements". The veterinary centers perform
vaccinations and health inspections and grant health certificates. They are
generally headed by staff with two year's training, certified as Assis-
tant Veterinary Superintendents (infirmiers veterinaires adjoints) while
subsector chiefs generally are Veterinary Superintendents (infirmiers veteri-
naires), and senlor managers are usually veterinary doctors.  Veterinary
field services are, however, often hampered by a shortage of drugs and funds
and the fact that t7.3c-thirds of the 1,800 field staff is on short-term con-
tract.  -Moreover regular personnel are often technically weak--having had
little practica'l training--and have tended to over-emphasize animal health
measures , while neglectLng assistance to improve production techniques.  The
proposad project would assist in improving the quality and balance in training
(para 4.23) and broaden the possible extension function.
la21      Since 1974, as a result of agreements reached under the first
Iivestock project, a Special Mission for the Eradication of Glossines (the
Special .Mîissîonj has ftnctionaed as MINEL's arm for the tsetse eradication
campaîin  in thn  Ademaoua .lateau.  I-owever, its funding and operations have
been made dfîlîift bv the administrative regulations governing special
missIors9 ->Jh-'en diLy  ~fro t'rhose applied to ministerial divisions (para
2.04 ). Steps wouid bp- taken ln the proposed project to remedy this situation
{pa r a 0, 9J . 
1.22                           l ng  lso under MINEL's purview, and is offered at
two 'ocIti0nS  ~az-   NaŽh:ional Zoctechnical and Veterinary Training Center,
Ja.ki- , and a  tre Cent re National de Formation Zootechnique et Veterinaire at
ae3te oacquate physical facilities, training has
b2en  Sf7 -r i .- ii-    by te lack cf teaching staff, teaching material,
la:crat3ry and  eNnLcal &quipment, and practical training.  Provisions of the
prcpc3hi s"ed->- pSct -. ±p'rxoeide assistance in these areas (para 4.22). On the
ote..r   the L~ifroa  .ene  i.s better equipped and appears capable of
`    -  y-  .   t L : iraining courses produce Assistant
-'                           é ad coma trainees are kept for a third year to



-7-
become Veterinary Superintendents. About 40 new students are recruited for
the two institutions annually. Since ail graduates are automatically employed
by MINEL, there is a risk that the staff of the flinistry will expand without
proper consideration of new manpower needs. During the proposed project,
Government would be encouraged to use its training facilities to achieve a
balance between re-training and expansion (para 4.23).
1.23      MINEL operates seven livestock production stations whose role is to
provide such production inputs as day-old chicks, feeds, feeder pigs, and
breeding stock to the traditional sector. The stations are, with the excep-
tion of one near Yaounde, located in the western and coastal regions. The
stations currently produce below capacity, and frequently supply substandard
products. The main difficulty is the lack of efficient management of these
stations rather than the scarcity of resources. Nevertheless, the traditional
sector has developed by establishing channels of supply in the private sector.
Currently, bilateral assistance agencies are in the process of aiding the
stations, however, and IDA is following the developments in this area.
Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions Animales (SODEPA)
1.24      SODEPA, a state-owned company, was established in 1974 in connection
with the first livestock project (para 2.01). Its function was to establish
three large scale state ranches and two slaughterhouses, and provide a number
of support services for other agencies in the livestock industry. Under the
proposed project SODEPA would continue to be supported, although some of its
original functions would be reassigned to other project entities (para 4.11).
Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
1.25      FONADER was created in 1973 with the dual role of (a) providing
credit to farmers or groups of farmers and (b) appraising, financing, and
supervising a wide variety of rural development projects. In the six years
since its inception, however it became a large complex financing and credit
agency and outgrew its original structure--which was, until recently, fully
operated from Yaounde. Its efforts have concentrated mainly in administering
various credit programs and project funds--some of which have been Bank
provided--and it has gained considerable experience in cash management. Its
growth has been supported with technical assistance from the Federal Republic
of Germany, and a cadre of capable Cameroonians has developed. However, the
development of adequate program and client accounting, budgeting and credit
monitoring procedures has lagged. This has resulted in FONADER's accumulating
considerable committed but undisbursed cash reserves and relatively high
levels of defaults--although these have been declining. In 1977, a reorganiza-
tion of FONADER began, designed with the assistance of the Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole of France (CNCA). Implementing this reorganization is
slowly streamlining operations and alleviating the major problems that have
arisen. Moreover, Government is taking steps to transform FONADER into an
agricultural development bank, which should be completed by July 1980.
Sufficient capable personnel are currently in place to carry out the reforms
required at the overall management level, although technical supervision of
credit in the field requires improvement. This latter situation would be
remedied in the proposed project (para. 4.06).



- 8-
E. Livestock Development Strategy
1.26      Government's livestock development strategy took form pari passu
with preparation of the first project. The first project, which became
effective in 1974, was designed to execute the so-called Meat Plan ("Plan
Viande") which embodied Government's objectives. The Meat Plan--and the
project--was strongly oriented towards increasing meat production for domestic
consumption, based principally on traditional sector improvement with the
state playing an active role in removing the most pressing constraints on
efficient resource use. Apart from this, the meat market was expected to
develop with the participation of both large-scale and small-scale production
units. Economic factors were to determine the location, cost, scale and
intermediate prices in the production and marketing system. Parastatal
ranches were also expected to play a significant production role. Although a
system of official consumer prices for meat had been enacted, Government
recognized that they were ineffective since there are no standard cuts of
meat, and purchases are made as much by sight as by weight. Therefore, the
system does not distort the functioning of the market. Although Government
does not intend to enforce price controls, it would be politically difficult
to remove them.
II. RESULTS OF FIRST PROJECT
2.01      The first livestock project, in part financed under Loan 983-CM,
approved in 1974, was intended to support Cameroon's Meat Plan (para 1.26).
Its main goal was to increase beef production, which accounts for about 55%
of national meat consumption. Specific elements were included to: (i)
assist 150 traditional herdsmen and farmers to increase productivity by
providing credit for the development of settled ranches and beef fattening
enterprises; (ii) establish three government ranches of 20,000 ha and about
8,000 head of cattle each, which would demonstrate new production systems,
provide good quality breeding and fattening stock to the traditional sector
and provide some of the meat needed in the country; (iii) construct two new
slaughterhouses and provide credit to private butchers; (iv) eradicate
tsetse flies from a 800,000 ha tract of pasture land in the Adamaoua
Plateau; and (v) provide technical assistance for the development of an
embryonic extension service, training for slaughterhouse and credit managers,
and the establishment of SODEPA as the project implementation agency for
all project components except management of tsetse eradication and credit
administration.
2.02      It was recognized that the project would be innovative, involving
technical risks. Moreover, since it was the first Bank assisted livestock
project in Cameroon and only the fourth Cameroon agricultural project financed
in part by the Bank at the time, a potential management risk existed. There-
fore, the project was designed to be, in effect, a large scale pilot project,
testing implemention alternatives and production systems whose relative
efficiencies would be evaluated and used as a basis for follow-up projects.



- 9 -
This pilot approach was particularly evident in the agreement to test para-
statal ranching on a restricted scale (on three ranches compared with six
originally proposed in the preparation report), and to test the feasibility of
extending credit for livestock production to private graziers and small mixed
crop farmers.
A. Physical Achievements
2.03      Administered by FONADER (para 1.25), the credit program has been
fully subscribed, with applications about twice the number anticipated.
However, no loans for butcher shop modernization in Yaounde and Douala were
made since the SODEPA slaughterhouses which would have provided better meat
were not completed in time to generate such a demand. On-farm investments
were in close agreement with appraisal estimates. The program clearly demon-
strated the feasibility of Government's primary strategy which was to en-
courage livestock production by private graziers and farmers, and it provided
useful guidelines for future development. Heretofore, experience on credit
extension to graziers and crop farmers in western Africa was seriously defi-
cient. The three tsetse eradication campaigns, 1976/77, 1977/78 and 1978/79,
succeeded in clearing about 524,000 ha or about two-thirds of the original
800,000 ha target in spite of administrative and technical problems (para
2.04). Infestations proved to be more dense and geographically widespread
than originally foreseen. The shortfall would be included in the area
to be freed under the provisions of the proposed project (para 4.15). Part of
the fly-freed zone is now being resettled following a Government plan that
recognizes traditional rights in the area, and the proposed project would
strengthen a series of control posts to help prevent reinfestation (para
4.21). The project would also include technical assistance to help implement
a land use plan based on a soon to be completed land use survey financed by
the FRG (para 4.10). SODEPA's investment program for the establishment of
three ranches has been practically completed although stocking the ranches has
only reached about one-half of target. Construction of one of the slaughter-
houses (at Yaounde) is virtually completed, although some minor civil works
and equipment installation remain to be done to make it fully functional.
SODEPA's technical advisors on slaughterhouses would supervise the installa-
tion of this equipment. The second slaughterhouse (at Douala) has remained at
about 60% of completion for several months, owing ta a contract dispute
between SODEPA and the contractor. It appears at this stage most unlikely
that the contractor would be able to complete this plant. Thus, a new con-
tractor would probably be retained by SODEPA and provision would be made in
the proposed project to allow SODEPA to complete the slaughterhouses.
B. Organizational and Mlanagerial Results
2.04      During the course of the first project, FONADER recognized that
its loan approval and administration system was overly centralized, leading to
delays and unsatisfactory sub-loan appraisal. Steps were planned -- and are
now being implemented -- to decentralize so as to achieve greater timeliness
in sub-loan processing. Technical supervision of loans by SODEPA, however,



- 10 -
was weak since SODEPA's staff were fully committed to dealing with urgent
headquarters management problems, and additional personnel were not made
available for super-visory work. The proposed second project would rermedy
this situation (para 4.06) by supporting the transfer of respon-sibility for
technical supervision to FONADER field offices.  The Special Mission (para
1.21) established for the execution of tsetse eradication campaigns has
demonstrated co-mpetence in the field although it had to face a number of
unexpected difficulties such as periodic disruption of payments to staff
and suppliers and delays in the provision of sprays and materials.
Government has agreed to administrative and budgeting arrangements which
would remedy this situation (para 5.09).
2.05      SODEPA encountered a series of setbacks which prevented it from
reaching alIl of its operational goals. Firstly, the schedule foreseen for
constructing and operating the two slaughterhouses was very tight and called
for full operation by the end of project year two. Secondly, progress was
severely retarded by the bankruptcy of the contracting firm initially selected
through international competition, before any construction could begin. The
delays involved in selecting a subsequent contractor permitted costs to
increase.  Further delays led to the failure of SODEPA's first slaughterhouse
consultant and the contractor to bring the construction to completion with the
budget provided (para 2.03). As there is considerable doubt about the con-
tractor's ability to complete the work, Government would probably retain a new
contractor to finish construction and has requested IDA's assistance in
financing this work. The proposed credit would finance civil works, equipment
and technical assistance (para 4.11).  The civil works (about US$830,000)
would not justify international competitive bidding and would be obtained
through local competitive bidding. Equipment required (about US$550,000)
would oe ordered from original suppliers to assure compatibility with original
technical specifications.  Thirdly, in the case of SODEPA's ranches, while
infrastructure was completed satisfactorily, the beginning of operations--
principally stocking the ranches with cattle--lagged behind schedules. Cattle
prices rose significantly above the levels expected, making stocking more
dlfficut with the funds available. More importantly, production coefficients
set as targets for o;erations were not reached - particularly the calving rate
(about 5f% instead af 73%), the period required to fatten cattle for sale (36
'istea'. of 20-24), and calf mortality and losses (which exceeded 10%
,nscad o' the 5% predicted). As a result, ranches generated substantially
l~ss -evnue th-an expected which jeopardized their financial viability.
Fourthla, headquart,eSs operating costs and staffing levels were much higher
than p.an-n2d9 coupled with delays in the generation of incoare from
a n     gdrtousas, meant that SODEPA's cash flow--which was pro-
-ieo  beosit-ve afr:er Droject year two--remained negative throughout
e' --ive year p-or  -eriod.  T'his called for extraordinary financing
a2r5ngenlets--sac    s as the use of SODEPA's capital funds to cover operating
osts, and the extensicn of a loan from Governient in addition to its acquisi-
tion of S§DEPA equ- y shiares as orîginally foreseen--to maintain SODEPA's
e*-y (para 2o.07/Y   The demands on SODEPA's management created by these
f-;a-i- a    a'Miis-trative p-oblems centered at headquarters meant that the
-d capaclty to deal with training and systematic
m3- _ Oc~'` 2-Q--.@a`0-  f fiaIf  actj- ities   Consequently, inspite of the



- il -
presence of competent technical adv-isors, information concerning the ranches
and SODEPA's general financial situation became available too slowly to
provide a basis for timely re-appraisal of performance targets. This latter
shortcoming also applied to other project components under SODEPA's supervi-
sion, which deprived Government of an adequate information base for more
general policy re-appraisal.
C. Financial Results
2.06      FONADER experienced no funding problems with the loans approved
under the "Plan Viande", which accounted for less than 10% of its loan port-
folio.  Iloreover, FONADER provided funds for an additional 30 sub-loans from
its own resources.  To date, in contrast to FONADER's more general experience
(para 1.25), repayment of annual installments on project sub-loans has been
close to 100 percent due to the efforts of local field staff. However,
FONADER has been unable to properly identify the administration costs of these
sub-loans owing to inadequate financial and cost accounting. A recently
concluded reorganization study carried out by Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole of France proposed the introduction of a cost-accounting system that
would provide for a proper accounting of the administration costs of separate
credit schemes. This proposal was accepted in principle by FONADER's board
and is presently being slow'ly implemented. FONADER management has indicated
that the system would be operational by July 1980.
2.07      From the beginning of the project, SODEPA's accounts were not
adequately maintained and therefore little reliable data about its overall
financial situation were available before mid-1978, when its financial
controller was replaced, and its accounting system restructured. The
information revealed that SODEPA was already in severe financial difficulties,
because of a shortfall in ranch and slaughterhouse revenues (para 2.05) and
unforeseen increases in headquarter operating costs. This led to a cumulative
deficit of CFAF 380 million (US$1.7 million) by the end of June 1978.
Therefore, instead of achieving a positive cash flow in PY 2 as foreseen at
appraisal, SODEPA had to use part of its capital to finance operating
costs. Moreover, it was unable to service the debt on total Government
loans of CFAF 2,032 million (US$9.2 million) including IBPD loan 983-CM of
CFAF 1,907 million (US$8.7 million). Such debt service would have increased
the cumulative loss to about CFAF 440 million (US$2 million). Thus it was
evident that SODEPA's earning power as projected at appraisal was too
optimistic. Consequently, Government has confirmed that it would transformi
SODEPA's current long-term debt into grants, and owing to the long-tern
objectives of SODEPA, would transfer funds under the proposed project as a
grant.  IIoreover, Government would modify its system of ranch administration
and prepare a proposal to that extent (para 2.11).
2.08      Although the Special Mission for the Eradication of Glossines of
MIINEL is based in Ngaoundere, funds for its operating expenditures ha-Je been
administered by 21INEL in Yaounde and released in quarterly allocations to the
mission's imprest account. While in each year the first quarter's allocation
was usually released in a timely fashion, subsequent replenishments were



- 12 -
generally not provided on time.  Delays have been caused by late submission of
supporting documents by the Mission to the Ministry of Finance, with further
delays resulting from the clearance process which is time consuming due to
communication problems. This greatly impaired the Mlission's day-to-day
operations. Iloreover, as a consequence of poor accounting practices, and
remote administration, the Mission's accounts are in a state of disarray so
that exact year-by-year costs of the eradication campaign could not be estab-
lished. The proposed project would remedy this situation by establishing the
Mlission's accounts section in its headquarters in Ngaoundere and eventually
providing it with additional accountant/administrators as needed (para 5.09).
2.09      As a result of the administrative and physical performance cited
above (paras 2.03-2.08), costs exceeded loan provisions in several project
categories. On the basis of actual costs to June 30, 1979, and estimates for
the remainder of 1979, total project costs rose by about CFAF 1.6 billion
(US$7.3 million) or 45% above appraisal estimates. The greatest over-expendi-
ture, US$4.5 million (83% over appraisal estimate), was incurred on the tsetse
component, attributed to increased spraying costs arising from increases
in hourly helicopter charges, coupled with increases in insecticide costs and
the need to spray a higher proportion of the infested area than expected.
These overruns were financed with funds from the Federal Republic of Germany.
SODEPA's operating costs rose by US$2.6 million (about 400% over appraisal
estimate) arising mainly from unplanned increased personnel costs. Overruns
on slaughterhouses were US$1.0 million (42% over appraisal estimate) which
resulted from delays in execution. Cost savings on civil works,
vehicles and equipment for SODEPA totalled about US$0.5 million (about 42% of
appraisal estimate). Details are given in the following schedule:
Category                        Appraisal         Actual Expenditures   Overrun or
Millions  Millions   Ilillions   MIillions         Saving
CFAF      US$          CFAF         US$           77
SODEPA
Civil Works, vehicles
and Equipment              259       1.2          150          0.7         (42)
Cattle Purchase             757       3.4          682          3.1         (10)
Slaughterhouses             522       2.4          742          3.4          42
Operating Costs             146       0.7          730          3.3         400
Technical Assistance        208       0.9          290          1.3          39
Tsetse Fly Eradication    1,200         5.5        2,200         10.0          83
Private Sector Credit         435       2.0          420           1.9         (4)
Training                       57.5     0.3             9.0       -           (84)
Project Preparation            57.5     0.3           65.0        0.4          13
Total                  3,643       16.6        5,288         24.0          45



- 13 -
D. Implications for the Second Project
2.10      From the standpoint of credit program implementation, the results
of the first project have shown that coordination between executing agencies
has been difficult to obtain. Measures would be included in the proposed
project to minimize the reoccurrence of such difficulties (para 5.04) and
project management would be entrusted to a full-time coordinator and staff
(para 5.02). A monitoring and evaluation system would also be developed by
this coordinator to allow Government to make interim modifications during
project execution (para 5.10).   Moreover, the results of the first project
indicated that tsetse fly eradication can be executed, and serve as a basis
for trypanosomiasis control. The proposed project would, therefore, continue
eradication activities (para 4.14). Proposed project components for support
of animal health and production services (para 4.21) would assist pastoralists
to make efficient use of the areas that would be cleared.
2.11      The first project experience showed that traditional sector credit
program could be administered successfully through FONADER's field offices,
and that credit recipients would modify traditional production methods when
helped in doing so. An expanded credit program is proposed (para 4.05) to be
executed through FONADER's field offices.  However, parastal ranching has not
proven to be as technically efficient as expected, and the production coeffi-
cients achieved are not substantially different from those achieved by private
ranchers assisted under the first project. In addition, the high level of
parastatal ranch investment, operating and overhead costs have made financial
viability difficult to achieve. Moreover, these costs are substantially
higher than corresponding costs for the private sector ranches. It now
appears from an analysis of possible scenarios for the ranches--which treated
development and herd costs as sunk, and assumed the best technical coeffi-
cients attained in the field to date--that a redeployment of ranch resources,
possibly transferring part of them to the private sector, would be rational.
Recognizing this, SODEPA is currently modifying its system of ranch adminis-
tration, and is studying further proposals with the Bank for more efficient
use of ranch resources and an improved technical performance. Government has
agreed to prepare a detailed program including a timetable for its execution,
acceptable to IDA, by not later than June 30, 1980 for achieving a more
efficient and economic use of resources of the SODEPA ranches at Faro, Dumbo
and Ndokayo.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would assist livestock development in three of the four
major ecological zones in Cameroon--the central and southern zones and the
northwestern highlands (Hlap 14521). No project activities are proposed for
the Sahelian and Sudanian zone, north of the Adamaoua Plateau. Project cattle
production activities would be located in the central zone and northwestern
highlands. Tsetse fly eradication and animal health service support would be
carried out in the central zone (Adamaoua Plateau). Pigs and poultry produc-
tion would be supported in the northwestern highlands and the coastal area of



- 14 -
the southern zone.  Institutional strengthening including training and research
within MINEL, SODEPA and FONADER would also take place in specified locations
throughout the country.
Ecological Zones
3.02      Three ecological zones are involved in the project area.  The
central zone, which includes the Adamaoua Plateau, is covered in grass and
shrub savannah, contains about 6.4 million ha, and is sparsely populated with
less than 300,000 inhabitants. The cattle population, however, exceeds 1.5
million, or about half of the national herd. Tsetse infestations have removed
cattle from a large--and potentially growing--area, but eradication has
proven to be feasible (para 2.03). The northwestern highlands are free of
tsetse infestations and trypanosomiasis, and other pests such as ticks are
less prevalent than elsewhere. With only 1.8 million ha and 500,000 people,
this zone is densely populated, and grazing land is facing increased com-
petition from cropping which is an important activity. Thus, the potential
for cattle production is more likely to be realized on mixed farms than
through extensive grazing. Furthermore, since feed grains are produced in
excess of human needs, the area is important for pig and poultry production.
The southern zone, which is a relatively flat Guinean and rainforest zone
comprising 32 million ha and about 4.5 million people, includes Yaounde and
Douala, and is predominantly agricultural, producing tropical food crops. The
proximity to markets has been a stimulus to the development of small live-
stock. The zone currently contains 90 percent of the pigs, 80 percent of the
fowl, and only 5 percent of the cattle. Development of livestock in this zone
would continue to foeus on pig and poultry production.
Trade Pattern
3,03      Cattle that are not slaughtered for local consumption in the Adamaoua
Plateau and in the northwestern highlands are--with the exception of some
border trade--marketed in the south. These production zones are reasonably
well linked to the consumption areas by road and rail from Ngaoundere, and
by road linking Banyo-Bafoussam-Douala. Trekking cattle may take as much
as a month from the Adamaoua Plateau, and rail and truck transport are
being used more frequently. Pigs and poultry are marketed within smaller
distances erom the point of production. Within the corridor between
Bamenda, Bafoussam and Douala, a relatively well-established road network
facilitates the movement of pigs and poultry towards the urban centers, As
a resuilt, augmenting production in the central and southern zones would
increase the supply of meat in the main domestic consumption centers.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives and Summary Description
4»a0      'Lhe projecî_ would assist the second phase of a long-term develop-
ment mrograsn-;,e Meat PLan (para 1.26)--aimed at improving Cameroon's meat



- 15 -
production and the economic well-being of its livestock producers.  In parti-
cular, the proposed project would reclaim grassland areas now infested by
tsetse fly for productive use, and augment rural incomes by increasing produc-
tivity in major livestock subsectors. The project w7ould concentrate on
strengthening the field services of governnent institutions--SODEPA, FOflADER
and MINEL--responsible for implementing the proposed components, thereby
helping to ensure effective execution of this project and enhancing their
capacity to undertake subsequent phases of the Mleat Plan.
4.02      The project would also assist conpleting some activities not fully
completed during the first project, i.e. tsetse fly eradication, slaughterhouse
construction and a revised training program. Steps would be taken to safeguard
grassland resources in the Adamaoua Plateau fron tsetse fly reinfestation and
overgrazing. Under the project's credit program, emphasis would be placed on
increasing the productivity of the traditional livestock sector. Furthermore,
measures would be undertaken to strengthen the implementation capacity of
FONADER for the administration and monitoring of livestock credit. Provisions
for staff training and for monitoring and evaluation of project activities
would strengthen the managerial capabilities of the executing institutions.
4.03      The proposed project has been designed taking fully into account
the experience gained under the first livestock project, and its objectives
conform with Governnent's livestock development strategy (para 1.26).
4.04      Description.  Tle proposed project, to be implemented over a four-
year period, would:
(i)  provide investment credit and working capital through FONADER:  for
producers in the northwestern and southern coastal zones for pig
breeding and fattening (200 loans), broiler production (100 loans),
eggs and cockerel production (100 loans), and cattle production on
small mixed farms (500 loans); for private cattle breeding and
fattening ranches in the tsetse cleared areas of the Adamaoua
Plateau (100 loans), Dumbo and Ndokayo (40 loans) and small ranches
in the North-West Province (30 loans); and for snall-scale agricul-
turalists (800 producers in 40 groups) in the northeast part of the
tsetse cleared zone;
(ii)  strengthen SODEPA by extending technical assistance contracts
for staff to complete the construction of and manage the two
slaughterhouses, and for a financial controller to improve its
financial control capacity; by providing for a ranch management
specialist; and by the provision of needed civil works, equipment
and vehicles;
(iii)  complete the eradication of tsetse flies in the target area under
the first project (800,000 ha) by clearing 276,000 ha in addition to
the 524,000 ha already cleared; and implemient a second stage tsetse
fly eradication program covering about 163,000 ha, in order to
return at full program completion, 1.3 nillion ha of grassland to
traditional producers, and prevent the infestation of a further
900,000 ha along the southern slopes of the Adamaoua Plateau
which are at present jeopardized;



- 16 -
(iv) strengthen MINEL's veterinary field services in the Adamaoua
Plateau to ensure adequate disease prevention and control;
(v) improve the program of formal and in-service training for MIINEL
veterinary field service staff; implement an in-service training
program for SODEPA agents in slaughterhouse management and opera-
tion; FONADER agents in credit supervision and monitoring; and MINEL
staff assigned to the Special Mission in tsetse eradication, survey
and perimeter maintenance;
(vi)  establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under MINEL with overall
responsibilities for project coordination, headed by a Project Coor-
dinator and appropriately staffed; and
(vii) provide funds for the preparation of a possible follow-up
project.
B. Detailed Features
(i) Private Sector Credit Program
4.05      FONADER would administer a credit program for individual ranchers
and farmers by providing loans for six types of enterprises (para 4.07).
Loans for pig or poultry production would be extended to small semi-commercial
producers to enable them to make the transition to commercial production. It
is expected that beneficiaries would be mainly crop farmers in the Littoral,
Western, and North-West Provinces. The Western and North-llest Provinces
are the main feed-producing areas. Douala is an important consumption cen-
ter and also the main center for importing feeds, chicks, and veterinary
supplies and therefore pig and poultry loans would also be made in the area
surrounding the city. This area is expected to be important for poultry
loans. Loans for cattle production on small mixed farms (about 5 ha) would be
made in the coffee-growing North-West Province. These loans would continue
the traditional sector credit program pioneered under the first project.
Provision is made for the purchase of breeding females as well as steers,
reflecting a change in emphasis from buying fattening steers continuously
towards encouraging breeding and fattening home-produced animals. This would
help alleviate shortages of animals on the market. It is expected that cows
would be milked mainly for home consumption, with small amounts of milk sold
locally. Loans (about 170) for the development of small settled ranches on
leased land would continue the program which was satisfactorily started under
the first project. It is expected that about 100 of them would be made in the
Faro area of the Adamaoua Plateau and would facilitate the orderly restocking
of tsetse cleared areas. Provision has been made for about 40 loans which
would be made in the Dumbo and Ndokayo Ranch areas. Provision is also made
for about 30 loans to establish smaller ranches (about 250 ha each) in the
North-West Province where a demand for this type of loan exists. Loans
would be extended to about 800 small-scale crop farmers for production



- 17 -
which would comply with the conditions to be worked out under the land use
plan (para 4.10) for the northeastern part of the tsetse-cleared area between
Mungel and Manduru. Loans would be made to groups of farmers (about 20 per
group) belonging to the same Groupement d'Agriculteurs Modernes (GAM).
FONADER's technical capabilities in the field would be strengthened to correct
operating weaknesses revealed during the first project (para 2.04), so that
its dependence on other agencies for technical support would be reduced.
4.06      FONADER would utilize technical staff to identify, prepare, eval-
uate and supervise credits including two internationally recruited special-
ists whose expertise is in short supply in Cameroon (para 5.04). An interna-
tionally recruited specialist in pig and poultry production would be attached
to FONADER's Bamenda office with responsibility for implementing the pig and
poultry component. He would be assisted by five Cameroonian technicians with
satisfactory qualifications and experience in the livestock field, who would
be detached from government service to FONADER for this purpose. An interna-
tionally recruited cattle specialist stationed at Ngaoundere would appraise
loans for cattle breeding and fattening, assisted by four Cameroonian techni-
cians. Over the four-year project period about 1,100 loans are expected to be
made.
4.07      The different types of investment to be financed under the
credit program have been analyzed in six illustrative investment models.
They are summarized below, with details described in the project file.
rIodel A - Pig Breeding and Fattening:  Average investment per farm would be
about CFAF 2.0 million (US$9,100) for buildings, breeding stock purchase
and incremental working capital (mainly for feed). Loans would be made
for enterprises ranging in size from 1 to 10 sows. The typical loan would
finance about five sows.  Investments would be made over a two year period.
It is expected that sub-borrowers would have sone experience in pig produc-
tion even if only at the backyard level. With adequate health care and
technical supervision, such a unit would be expected to produce 43 finished
pigs annually.
Model B - Broiler Production: Average investment per farm (to give an
output of 3,000 broilers/year) would be about CFAF 1.5 million (US$6,800)
mainly to finance buildings, equipment and incremental working capital.
Loans would be made for enterprises ranging from about 250 bird capacity to
2,000 bird capacity. It is expected that sub-borrowers would have had some
experience in poultry production.
Model C - Egg and Cockerel Production: Average investment per farm (to
provide 500 cockerel and 500 laying hens) would be about CFAF 1.5 million
(US$6,800) mainly to finance buildings, equipment and incremental working
capital. Loans would be made for enterprises ranging in size from 200 to
1,000 layers. Investments per farm would be made over two years. It is
expected that sub-borrowers would have had some experience in poultry
production. The unit would produce over a two year production cycle
about 88,000 eggs, about 300 cull layers, and 500 cockerels.



- 18 -
Model D - Small Mixed Farm:  A typical farm would have 5 ha, of which 0.25
ha would be a cash crop and 0.75 ha would be cultivated with subsistence
crops.  The remaining 4 ha would be fallow land with native pasture that
could be improved. Project-financed investments would mainly include fencing,
pasture improvement, a cattle yard, and incremental working capital for
livestock purchase.  The typical farmer would invest about CFAF 370,000
(US$1,700)-
Model E - Cattle Breeding and Fattening Ranch:  A typical loan uould finance
the development of a cattle ranch of 1,000 ha by a pastoralist previously
practicing transhumance. Typically, enterprises would be financed ranging in
size from 250 to 2,000 ha.  The main investment items would include fencing,
firebreaks, yard and cattle crush, cattle sprayer, and incremental working
capital mainly for cattle purchase. Investment per ranch is estimated
at about CFAF 4.1 million (US$l8,600).  On-ranch investments would be over two
years and at full development after 15 years, about 40 slaughter animals and 9
breeding heifers would be produced annually.
Ilodel F - Small Crop Farm: Investments per sub-borrower within a GAII of about
20 would be about CFAF 73,000 (US$330) mainly for a maize crib, produce store,
tools and equipment, and incremental working capital (fertilizers, seeds, and
insecticides).
A summary of the different sub-credit terms is given in paragraph 5.05. A
financial summary of the program is given in the following schedule.
Private Sector Credit Program
Financial Summary
Uio. of             Aggregate Incremental
Investment Mlodels                 Sub-loans    Fixed Investments        Working Capital
(millions)
CFAF    LUS$            CFAF      US$
Pig Breeding/Fattening               200          175       0.8           225       1.0
Broiler Production                   100          100       0.45            50      0.25
Eggs and Cockerel Production         100          iO0       0.45           50       0.25
Small HLixed Farris                  500           55       0.3            133      0.6
Cattle Breedlng/Fattening Ranch   170 1/          232       1.0           378       1.7
Smiall Crop Farms (GAM) 2/            40           40       0.2             18      0.1
iotalO                        1,110           702       3.2           854       3.9
1/   About 140 large (1,000 ha) and 30 small (250 ha) enterprises.
!/  Group loans, groups of 20 farms.



- 19 -
4.08      Land tenure and property rights throughout Cameroon are defined
by ordinances and supporting decrees which recognize: (i) public land;
(ii) State land; (iii) private land; and (iv) national land. Small mixed
farm borrowers have land rights which are already well established under
customary law. Before credit approval, they would be required to prove
their rights to the land which they plan to develop. SODEPA holds national
land, granted to it under a 99-year leasehold title. Under the title, SODEPA
may develop this land--such as is being done for the three ranches--or it
may sublease it on 20-year sublease contracts--as was done when establishing
settled private ranches in the Dibi and Tourningal area under the first
project. During 1979, Governnent allocated an additional 100,000 ha in the
Faro Valley to SODEPA. Some of this land could be divided and subleased to
individual cattle breeding/fattening ranches. The rest of the lands in the
project area in the Adamaoua Plateau is mostly national land. This land would
be resettled by traditional pastoralists as soan as the tsetse fly has been
eradicated, and the project would assist the re-entry process (para 4.18).
4.09      A Land Allocation Committee has been established in the Adamaoua
Plateau under presidential decree. This comnittee includes representatives
of the public, traditional leaders and private citizens. In preparation
for the resettlenent of the tsetse-freed area in the Upper Faro Valley, three
categories of potential settlers have been identified and their names have
been registered. The first group comprises people who had to leave the area
as part of the eradication campaign, before spraying started. The second
group consists of people who moved out of the area because their herds could
not tolerate the intense tsetse fly pressure any longer. The first and the
second groups continued ta pay taxes at their former homes. Finally, the
third group requesting rights to settle in the tsetse-freed area are families
that moved out of the project area before the eradication campaign started,
and stopped paying taxes. These families would be given the lower priority
although it is expected that they would still receive their share of the land.
By early 1979, some 161 families with 241 herds had been registered for
settlement in the western part of the Adamaoua Plateau. Once re-entry
starts, it is expected that more families will enlist. Governrient has con-
firmed the validity of land title granted by the Land Allocation Committee for
credit purposes.
4.10      Land Use Study.  To define and clarify more adequately the existing
and potential land use patterns in the Adamaoua Plateau, the Federal Republic
of Germany (FRG) has provided funds for the purchase and processing of sea-
sonal imagery from LANDSAT (formerly the Earth Resources Technology Satellite)
as well as the computer analysis, ground-truthing and interpretation of this
imagery. These data are presently being mapped and land use categories are
being tabulated using existing topographic maps. A detailed description of
each land use category is under preparation. Study completion is expected by
July 1980 and its findings will be used in executing proposed project compo-
nents in the Adamaoua Plateau. Results would also be used by Governnent to
plan future land utilization. Provision would be made in the proposed project
to assist in this planning (para 5.02).



- 20 -
(ii) Strengthening SODEPA
4.11      SODEPA would continue to participate in the execution of the
"`Meat Plan" by executing the completion of the slaughterhouse construction
program and managing them, by allocating land to pastoralists in support of
the credit program (para 4.08) and by participating with MINEL in administer-
ing the training institutions (para 4.22). In support of these activities,
two slaughterhouse managers technical assistance contracts would be extended
for 26 raonths each to supervise completion of the construction program,
facilitate slaughterhouse start-up and to provide sufficient time to train
potential managers. SODEPA's financial controller's contract would be
extended for four years, to ensure continuity in this important function for a
reasonable time after the expatriate slaughterhouse managers have left. The
proposed IDA Credit would also finance needed civil works, additional equip-
ment and vehicles for both plants.
4.12      Irrespective of the Government's ultimate decision on whether to
develop and continue running its parastatal ranches, or to make some other
arrangement for use of the land in the Dumbo, Ndokayo, and Faro areas,
responsibility for executing the decision would remain with SODEPA. An
internationally recruited ranch management specialist would assist in execut-
ing a program for ranch resource redeployment (para 2.11), and the existing
financial controller would help manage ranch finances. Funds would be
provided under the project for the purchase of replacement equipment and
vehicles and drugs and medicines. The Faro ranch site would also be used
for practical retraining of MINEL field staff in animal health and animal
husbandry practices (para 4.24). Activities at the Jakiri ranch and station,
which SODEPA administers parallel to MINEL's training school, would include
demonstrating beef cattle ranching, dairying, pig, and poultry production
(para 4.23) to newly recruited and existing MINEL field staff. This training
activity would be strengthened under the project. The program would be
closely coordinated with the Jakiri veterinary training institute, and be
under the direction of an internationally recruited director who would have
joint responsibilities for the station and school.
4.13      In support of the credit program in the Adamaoua Plateau, SODEPA
would survey each leasehold property in accordance with a prepared program for
utilizing its lands. Selection of lease-holders and the granting of leases
would be made in conjunction with FONADER's selection of candidates for credit
(para 4.05).
(iii) Tsetse Fly Eradication
4.14      Under the first project, tsetse flies were to be cleared from
about 800,000 ha in the Adamaoua Plateau to allow the area to be re-entered
by pastoralists. It was expected that this would involve spraying 10% of
the infested area thought to be habitat of the flies, but during project
execution it was found that a larger habitat, covering about 20% of the
infested area, needed spraying. About 524,000 ha were actually cleared
during the three annual campaigns of the first project (para 2.03) leaving
a 273,000 ha shortfall to be cleared under the proposed project. In the
meantime, the limit of infestation moved southeastward covering a further



- 21 -
133,000 ha. But because the new infestations are in strips and pockets,
they have effectively removed a much larger area from use as pasture. In
addition, in order to secure a defensible perimeter to the freed zone,
spraying an additional 30,000 ha in the northwest has become necessary (Map
14522). Details of the areas involved are given in the following schedule:
INFESTED AND TO BE CLEARED
(000 ha)
Phase I (Plan)                                      797
Phase I (Realized)                                  524
Phase II (From Phase 1)                             273
- to reach south limit                             133
- to reach northwest perimeter                      30
Total Phase II                                  436
Total Phases I and II                           960
The total area that could be returned to use by the end of the proposed
project by actually clearing 960,000 ha would be about 1.3 million ha since
more land is removed from use than is actually infested.
4.15      Phase II would involve (i) clearing about 436,000 ha by helicopter
to ensure that the southern limit to the tsetse advance is reached and that a
perimeter is established; (ii) implementing measures needed to defend the area
freed from reinfestation from the north--i.e. maintain another perimeter;
(iii) providing for the maintenance of a tsetse-free status in the reclaimed
area; (iv) collecting additional factual information on tsetse distribution
and habitat; and (v) assisting in the orderly reoccupation of the reclaimed
area. A detailed Schedule of Implementation is given in the project file.
4.16      Helicopter Spraying.  A 436,000 ha infested area would be cleared by
helicopter overflying the habitat of the flies--occupying 20% of the infested
area. With 880 hours per annum of helicopter spray time available, 220,000 ha
would be cleared per year, including an allowance for respraying. Thus, the
target area could be covered by the end of the second project year. However,
the boundary of the infested area may change if the flies advance more
rapidly than is currently assumed. Ongoing surveys would track this advance.
As a margin for risk, however, the project would provide for a possible third
year of helicopter spraying. There is no entomological justification for
applying insecticide to the gallery forests or streams of the Adamaoua Plateau.
The outer margin of the gallery forest, where tsetse flies are mainly found,
can be effectively reached by using the downdraft of a helicopter flying on
the outside of each forest. Using this technique would result in economies in
insecticide use and in flying time, and would reduce the threat of negative
environmental side effects. The project would provide for short-term consul-
tancy visits to assist in the evaluation of droplet emissions, new insecticide
formulations, and helicopter spraying techniques. Once a tsetse-free status
is attained within areas that can be defended from reinfestation, ground
spraying would be employed to combat any infestation around the freed zone.



- 22 -
As an efficient capability for ground spraying would be essential, the pro-
posed credit would finance equipment and training of personnel (para 4.25).
In the first project, no major ecological disruption was experienced as a
result of insecticide applications. However, although not included in project
costs, the Federal Republic of Germany would finance continued surveillance of
the campaign to detect the possible environmental side effects. This informa-
tion, as well as economie and technical data, would be used by the Special
Mission to evaluate and possibly adjust the longer-term anti-trypanosomiasis
program.
4.17      Insecticides.  The two main insecticides used in the first project
would continue to be used at the beginning of the second. Endosulfan and
Dieldrin, combined, currently meet all of the technical and commercial speci-
fications demanded by a spraying campaign of the magnitude involved. Only
pyrethroids--which are at an experimental stage of development and not yet
commercially available--appeared to yield similar results, and no supplier
of a substitute has volunteered to have his produet tested for effectiveness.
These insecticides would be used in the initial stages of the proposed project
since a re-opening of bidding would cause delays, without certainty of finding
competitive alternatives. However, suppliers of potential substitute insecti-
cides would be invited to submit proposals to have new products tested for
possible use.
4.18      Perimeter Defense.  The project would provide for maintaining
the fly-free status of the cleared zone by maintaining a barrier against
reinfestation running along the northern edge of the tsetse infested area
(Map 14522), and by installing entry control posts at the perimeter of
the freed zones. The protective barrier in the western part of the zone,
near Tignere and the eastern part of the barrier, would be maintained through
ground spraying, while the center of the barrier would be maintained with
annual fixed-wing aircraft aerial spraying.  Entry of all people, animals
and vehicles into the freed zone would be checked at designated control
posts. The implementation schedule for these activities is given in the
project file. Control posts would be supervised jointly by the Special
Mission and MINEL veterinary field services (para 4.21), and loans under the
credit program would be made to crop farmers in the northeastern portion of
the protective barrier to help assure its animal-free status (para 4.07).
4.19      Surveys.  During Phase I, the survey work needed to produce essen-
tial data for adequate project execution remained behind schedule. To create
an improved survey capability in the field, the proposed project would provide
for additional transport, entomological support, improvements in the re-
muneration of field staff, and training of local staff (para 4.25). By the
end of the 1979/80 campaign, survey data would be available to define in
detail (a) the southern limit of the infestation, and (b) the northern
perimeter to be defended, showing the limits of infestation by flies of
different varieties. Based on field survey data, a review of the 1979/80
spraying campaign, and the results of the land use survey (para 4.10), the
Special Mission would prepare a detailed plan for perimeter defense and the
continuation of spraying in subsequent seasons which would be submitted to
IDA for review and approval not later than September 30, 1980.



- 23 -
(iv) Veterinary Field Serv4ce
4.20      M1ortality rates for both young and adult cattle are still high in
Cameroon reflecting an insufficient coverage of the herd by health and
extension services. Under the project, these services--comprising veteri-
nary service and animal husbandry advice--would be strengthened. In particu-
lar, five subsectors and 20 Veterinary Zootechnical Centers (CZVs) of the
Adamaoua Sector of MINEL's field service would be refurbished. Each CZV would
service about 4,500 cattle or 100 herds. Drenching and parasite elimination
would be undertaken by herdsmen using their own equipment and monitored by the
field service. Considering the relatively good feed value of pastures in the
Adamaoua Plateau and the level of experience of herdsmen in animal husbandry,
it is expected that improved veterinary coverage and animal husbandry advice
could reduce calf mortalities from 25 to 15% and to raise weaning rates from
35 to 50%. Herd productivity--as measured by annual offtake and increase in
the basic herd--would be expected to increase from about 11% to 15% (para
7.01).
4.21      Project finance would be provided to rehabilitate or construct
physical facilities, furnish necessary equipnent, cover operating costs,
assure a regular delivery of veterinary supplies and drugs and train and
mobilize attending field staff. Drugs, vaccines and veterinary supplies
would be issued periodically to CZVs by the Sector Headquarters. The CZVs
would focus on improving the health condition and production of cattle
re-entering the area freed of tsetse flies. Cattle would enter through the
entry control posts (Ports d'Entree) which would be established under the
project as special centers. The CZVs would attempt to give priority to
making animal husbandry advice available to credit recipients. The Division
d'Amenagement des Paturages (Division of Pasture Management), under the
Sector Head, would also be provided with a vehicle and funds to cover
operating costs so that it could provide advice to project credit benefi-
ciaries on management of grazing resources.
(v) Training
4.22      Support for formal training would focus on improving the curriculum
and program for newly recruited and existing staff of the veterinary field
services, to upgrade their veterinary competence and broaden their expertise
in animal production. A program to upgrade practical field experience would
also be developed for these individuals. The project would provide for the
equipping and staffing of two facilities: the existing MINEL training center
at Jakiri with supplemental investments being made at SODEPA's Jakiri station;
and a new training center to be established within the Faro Ranch near Ngaoun-
dere. Both centers would serve for upgrading existing MINEL field staff and,
in the case of Jakiri, provide part of the additional staff needed by the
Ministry to assist development of small livestock in the western zones. In
both cases, SODEPA and IIINEL would make an arrangement covering the use of
SODEPA facilities.
4.23      Annual intake of students at Jakiri would include up to 12 pupils
completing the Assistant Veterinary Superintendents' Certificate (2-year
course) and three pupils for the Veterinary Superintendents' Certificate
(3-year course). Rotational retraining of existing staff from the western



- 24 -
zone at these levels would add annually eight man-years at the Assistant
Veterinary Superintendent (AVS) level and two man-years at the Veterinary
Superintendent (VS) level, making a total of 23 - compared to about 20 at
present. Appropriate MINEL officials would nominate suitable candidates from
among existing staff for retraining for the start of the school year 1980/81.
Following the initial three-year period, the focus would change towards
emphasizing retraining, with the number of retrainees increasing, and the
number of new recruits reflecting actual new manpower needs. The teaching
program would give a balanced treatment of animal health and animal production
for cattle and small livestock so that some changes in the existing curriculum
would be made. Practical experience would be gained by the Jakiri trainees
and retrainees, at the SODEPA station. The teaching program would be imple-
mented by the Cameroonian Director of the School, with practical training
under the SODEPA ranch manager. The redevelopment of: (i) the curriculum;
(ii) the teaching program; and (iii) the station would be assisted by an
internationally recruited livestock production/training specialist with broad
practical experience who would teach and be responsible for coordinating
activities of the entire unit.
4.24      At the Faro Ranch, equipment and teachers would be provided under
the project to conduct rotational retraining for about 12 man-years per year
of MINEL veterinary field service staff at the Infirmier Veterinaire Adjoint
level, giving priority to those who would be assigned to service in the zone
freed from tsetse infestation. Candidates for retraining would be nominated
by MINEL in time to start the program in 1980/81. The focus of the training
program would be on cattle husbandry and pasture management. Existing staff
from various institutions such as the Centre National de Formation Zootech-
nique et Veterinaire (CNFZV), Maroua (para 1.23), would be recruited for
short-term training assignments and would receive appropriate allowances. The
program would be organized jointly by the Project Coordinator, the Faro Ranch
Manager, in consultation with the Adamaoua Sector Chief, taking into account
the changing needs of retrainees. At both centers, trainees would be provided
with lodgings, meals and educational materials.
4.25      In-service training would be conducted in conjunction with the
execution of other project components as follows:
-    SODEPA:  The financial controller would train Cameroonians working
with him in the general design and use of the financial control
system being developed for all SODEPA activities--including the
slaughterhouses--and in the principles of the system of project
financial control that would be developed for the project as a
whole. As part of their terns of reference, the internationally
recruited slaughterhouse manager and the slaughterhouse engineer
would train a group of Cameroonians from which replacements could
ultimately be selected.
-    FONADER:  A cattle production/credit specialist would undertake
the training of four prospective credit supervisors assigned to
FONADER, who would be the nucleus of the technical division in the
Ngaoundere office. A pig and poultry production specialist would



- 25 -
train the five credit supervisors agents assigned to FONADER's
operations in the western zone to appraise and supervise pig and
poultry production loans (para 4.06), and be the core of the techni-
cal division being established at that field office.
Special Mission for Eradication of Glossines:  The higher grade
staff in post would be offered opportunities to follow short courses
outside of Cameroon and to visit eradication sites elsewhere in
Africa. Provision for about 12 man-months would be included under
the project for these activities. Specific training required by
the field staff would be given by the senior professional staff,
aimed at achieving a high level of performance in the field, as
follows: (a) for the 60 Tsetse Control Agents (Surveyants), in-
service training conducted by the Tsetse Ecologist and/or Veteri-
narian in all functional aspects of fly detection, identification
and spraying to the level of competence required to assume responsi-
bility for groups of paid day-laborers; (b) for the six Field Assis-
tants (Infirmier Adjoint Specialise), primarily in-service training
conducted by senior staff to enable them to take charge of larger
groups of control agents and laborers and be responsible for
reporting accurately on the fly's presence and eradication proce-
dures undertaken; and (c) for the two Control Officers (Infirmier
Specialise), specialized training to be given by the Ecologist and
Veterinarian to assure a continuation of the supervision and execu-
tion of the operations. The Control Officers would also be offered
out-of-country training up to three months at other African tsetse
eradication sites in either Nigeria, Upper Volta, or Botswana, where
similar eradication campaigns and ground spraying activities have
been carried out. Government has agreed that the training program
within the Special Mission would be designed by the responsible
managers and submitted for IDA approval not later than September 30,
1980.
(vi) Preparation of a Possible Follow-up Project
4.26      Twenty-five man-months of consultancy services (at about US$9,000
per man-month) and funds for operating costs totalling about CFAF 84 million
(US$400,000), would be provided for the preparation of a possible follow-up
project. Government agreed at negotiations that (a) the start of preparation
work would be subject to a satisfactory evaluation of the ongoing project to
be carried out by the co-financiers jointly with IIINEL during the first half of
1982; (b) that preparation follow terms of reference prepared by MINEL not
later than June 30, 1982 satisfactory to IDA; and (c) that preparation be done
by individuals with qualifications acceptable to IDA.



26 -
V. PRO JECT IMPLEIENTATION
A~ Project Organization and Management
5.01      The project would mainly be executed within the institutional
arrangements developed during the first project, which, however, would be
adjusted where necessary on the basis of experience. The major institutional
objective would be to strengthen the operational capability of MIINEL, SODEPA
and FONADER, by establishing direct lines of authority and clear definîtions
of responsibility and by providing all three institutions with sufficient
resources and support to carry out the project. Wherever possible, existing
staff would be supported through specific training programs. The project
would provide for up to a total of 13 internationally recruited specialists
who would be required to serve at one time or another, for a total of about 46
man-years over the 4-year life of the project. In addition, about 42 man-
months of consultancy services would be used in project execution, mainly for
preparation of a possible follow-up project. By focussing on the present
limitations of the existing administrations, the project would help to improve
the Government's capacity to implement the proposed project and future devel-
opment programs in the livestock sector.
B. Project Implementation
5.02      A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established, within the
general secretariat of MINEL in Yaounde.  It would consist of a Project
Coordinator, a Project Training Coordinator, and a small supporting staff.
The Project Coordinator would assume overall responsibility for coordinating,
monitoring, evaluating, and advising the executing agencies as they perform
their assigned functions. Terms of reference of the PCU are given in the
Appendix, and have been agreed with Government.  The Project Training Coordi-
nator would perform similar functions to the Project Coordinator in the
areas of training. A Land Use Planner would also be recruited internationally
to wgork with Cameroonian authorities in Ngaoundere to implement a land use
plan for the tsetse freed area that used the results of the study conducted by
the FRG (para 4f10). Development of the PCU would relieve SODEPA of the
overall Droject management responsibilities it had during the first project
and would efieûtlvely separate overall project management from daily opera-
ti3nal coce  - c   nr.dividual components.  SODEPA would, however, continue its
major rasporsio litias for slaughterhouse and ranch resource management,
includirg a roe _n support Of training, and its land allocation function
under the credit programs (para 5.04). Terms of reference of the Project
Coordinator and Project Training Coordinator have also been agreed with
government. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the Project
Coordinator be etmployed and in post. The schedule of project implementation
iprserenec in the project file.  Organizational arrangenents to implement
eanch omaD:e   aae detaiLed below.



- 27 -
5.03      Private Sector Credit Program.  FONADER's present administration
and financial practices (para 1.25) make it imperative that reform take
place pari passu with the evolution of the proposed credit program, and
with the Meat Plan in general. A start on the process of reform has been
made with the help of CNCA and technical assistance from FRG (para 2.06).
During negotiations, this progress was reviewed with Goveruiment along with the
implications of the proposed transformation of FONADER into an agricultural
development bank. As a bank, FONADER would be required to follow accounting
procedures acceptable to the Central Bank of the Central African States
(BCEAC) and the Cameroonian Minister of Finance. This would permit the
identification of administration costs and the monitoring of separate lines of
credit so that present shortcomings in these areas would be overcome.  FONADER
expects that with the inauguration of its new status by July 1980, the first
reports based on this accounting system would be available by June 1981.
FONADER expects, further, that by July 1980, its financial accounts would be
current, permitting the introduction of cost accounting. A program for the
disposition of overdue accounts would be made available to IDA by September
30, 1980 and a plan for further decentralization of FONADER's field offices
would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1980.
5.04      FONADER's field offices at Bamenda and Ngaoundere would be fully
responsible for appraising and supervising their respective parts of the
credit program. At the beginning of the first project, FONADER did not
have field offices and SODEPA was nominated to help supervise loans (para
2.04). However, FONADER has now opened two field offices from which technical
supervision is undertaken. SODEPA would continue to provide ranchers and
farmers with appropriate subleases when land under SODEPA's leasehold is being
made available for credit receipients. FONADER's field offices at Bamenda and
at Ngaoundere would continue to be supported by the FRG with two expatriate
credit specialists. These two specialists, who are in post, serve respec-
tively as head of the Bamenda office and as technical advisor at Ngaoundere.
Further, the following project staff would be internationally recruited.
First, a specialist on pigs and poultry would be attached to the Bamenda
office under the office head. He would handle appraisal and supervision of
the credit program for pig and poultry producers. He would also organize and
train in-service a team comprising one assistant to be appointed by FONADER
and about five field agents, who would be seconded to FONADER from other
government services. Second, a cattle and pasture management specialist would
be responsible for appraisal and supervision of the credit program for cattle
producers. He would be based in Ngaoundere, and would organize and train
in-service four local staff in the supervision of the technical aspects of
loans. These specialists would be employed by FONADER under terms of reference
and with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
5.05      FONADER would extend medium- and long-term loans to participants
to cover 80% of incremental investments which in the case of small crop
farmers and egg and cockerel producers would be complemented with one-year
working capital loans. Lending would be on the terms and conditions of
FONADER wçhich are presently as follows:



- 28 -
Loan Type                    Repayment Period    Grace Period    Interest Rate
(yrs)              (yrs)               %
Pig breeding/fattening               5                   1                10
Broiler production                   4                   1                10
Eggs and cockerel production         4                   l                10
Small mixed farm                     3                   1                 9
Cattle breeding/fattening           10                   4                10
Small crop farm                      4                   1                 9
Working capital                       1                  -                 8
The repayment and grace periods are adequate, based on cash flows for the
types of investment proposed. Concerning interest rates, if as proposed,
the prevailing policy is applied to the project, FONADER would earn a
blended rate of 9.7% on project loans. The rate would slightly above the
rate of inflation expected during the disbursement period (which is fore-
case at about 9% per annum) but would be inferior to the commercial rates
which range between 12% and 14%. To the extent that it is intended that
the credit monies of the project would be loaned by Government to FONADER
at 5% p.a. -- following the arrangements agreed for the first project --
FONADER would retain an interest spread of 4.7%. This spread is judged
adequate to cover normal credit administration costs and bad debts, the
latter having accounted for about 2% under the first project. Although
the farm budgets (Project File) suggests that beneficiaries could afford
a somewhat higher interest rate, FONADER's present terms of lending
reflect Government's policy of setting relatively low agricultural interest
rate, based on the belief commonly held throughout the Region, that
such relatively cheap money is required to encourage traditional farmers
to invest in the adoption of improved technology. While IDA intends to
continue during the course of supervision and sectoral dialogue to
encourage Government to progressively adopt an efficient structure of
agriculture interest rate, the highest priority in terms of making credit
an effective tool of agricultural development is to resolve issues such
as organization, staff, lending procedures, and credit administration of
FONADER. Thus, the proposed project has been designed to address these
credit issues first.
5.06      The distribution of land leased to SODEPA for the traditional
sector was satisfactorily carried out during the first project. Similar
arrangements would be made under the proposed project. In the Adamaoua
Plateau, allocation of the land not under SODEPA's control for the credit
scheme would be executed by the the Departmental Commission for the Development
of the Upper Faro Valley, headed by the Ngaoundere Prefect and comprising,
among others, representatives of SODEPA, MINEL and FONADER. Government has
confirmed the legal validity of land rights conferred by this committee.
5.07      SODEPA.  An internationally recruited ranch management specialist
would assist in executing the plan for reorganizing SODEPA ranches over
four years (para 2.11). The contracts for the two specialists, the slaughter-
house manager and the slaughterhouse engineer, would be extended by about



- 29 -
2 years each. Their main function would be to supervise the completion of
construction and implement an operating schedule for the slaughterhouses
and to train SODEPA's future managers and engineers (para 4.11). The
Financial Controller has been in post since September 1978, and has made
good progress toward overcoming past deficiencies in SODEPA's financial
management (para 2.05). His priority tasks under the proposed project
would be to complete the implementation of an adequate accounting system
for all of SODEPA's activities, and in the process to provide in-service
training for SODEPA's accountants. Under the project, finance would be
provided for the extension of the Financial Controller's contract for four
years.
5.08      MINEL Veterinary Field Services in the Adamaoua Plateau would be
re-equipped and strengthened but no additional staff would be needed. The
daily supervision of these services, comprising veterinary service, animal
husbandry extension and the control posts for entry into the tsetse-freed
zone, would remain the responsibility of the Sector Chief. Details of the
proposed locations and staffing of the facilities to be upgraded under the
project is given in the project file. The Sector Chief would also prepare,
after consultation with the Chief of the Special Mission, establish and
administer four Entry Control Posts (para 4.18) and appoint the necessary
staff for their day-to-day operations.
5.09      Tsetse Fly Eradication.  MINEL's existing Special Mission, estab-
lished under the first project, would continue to be primarily responsible for
the execution of this component, through its field unit based at Ngaoundere
under a Cameroonian veterinarian. Details on the structure of the Special
Mission are given in the project file. The FRG would continue providing
technical assistance--one operations controller and one veterinarian--as part
of the project. In addition, one tsetse ecologist would be internationally
recruited to assist the Head of the Mission in programming, execution and
control of field surveys, and training. The tsetse ecologist would work six
months in PY1 and three months per year in PY2 and PY3 to continue surveillance
of spraying to warn of any adverse environmental effects of the eradication
campaign, even though no major disruption was experienced in the first project.
In addition, funds would be provided for hiring two consultants: one insecti-
cide spraying specialist--one month per year for the first three project
years--and one fixed-wing spraying specialist--three months per year in PY2
and PY3. The above specialists would be employed under terms of reference and
have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. MINEL would appoint,
after consultation with IDA, a suitably qualified veterinarian who would be
trained in-service by the FRG financed veterinarian to supervise the relation-
ships between the re-entry and management of cattle and tsetse infestation.
Government would locate the mission's imprest account in Ngaoundere, and would
ensure auditing of the mission accounts. The Special Mission would be staffed



- 30 -
with tsetse control agents (surveillants), field assistants (infirmiers
adjoints specialises), control officers (infirmiers specialises) and temporary
laborers. Most of them are already in post in the Mission and no constraints
are envisaged in recruiting and posting the additional personnel needed under
the project. Details of the implementation schedule of eradication and
maintenance of the freed zone are given in the project file.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation, Reporting
Requirements, Completion Report
5.10      The absence of effective and ongoing project-wide monitoring and
evaluation in the first project (para 2.05) showed that this would be
essential to provide all participating agencies with performance indicators
and a means of: (a) assuring successful project execution, and (b) assess-
ing components for their eventual replication. The Project Coordinator, in
consultation with each of the executing agencies, would design a program
for project monitoring which would cover details on data collection and
processing. This would be completed during PY1. The system would be
designed to provide periodic feedback by PCU into project operations to
facilitate adjustments in implementation.  Physical and financial information
on project progress, including training, compared with expected results,
would be compiled by PCU every six months and would be reviewed as a
regular part of IDA's project supervision, and would be the basis of annual
reports to IDA. The PCU would coordinate the final compilation of quarterly
project progress reports, to be prepared by the implementation agencies,
for submission to the financing institutions. These functions are included
in the terms of reference of the PCU (Appendix), as agreed at negotiations.
5.11       he Government has agreed to prepare a completion report on the
proposed project analyzing and evaluating the implementation and impact of the
project against the targets and objectives set. This report would be sub-
mitted to the financing agencies not later than six months after completion of
dîsbursements.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
6.01      Total project cost, including taxes, is estimated at CFAF 8,400
million (US$39.9 million) wîth a foreign exchange component of 59% or CFAF
4,963 mîllion (US$23.6 million). Customs duties and identifiable taxes
of CFAF 814 million !US$3.9 million) represent 10% of total cost.  Project
cost net of taxes amounts to CFAF 7,586 million (US$36.0 million) of which
forel~gn e**lnge represents 66%.



- 31 -
6.02      Cost estimates are based on mid-1979 prices, and include:  (i) phy-
sical contingencies of 15% on civil works and operating costs, and 10% on
all other costs except salaries, wages and technical assistance; and (ii)
price contingencies compounded as follows:
Inflation factors %
1979    1980    1981-83
Salaries and wages              12      il        10
All other costs                 10      10        10
The higher inflation factors on salaries and wages represent the estimated
annual wage increases in Cameroon. Total contingencies are equivalent to 27%
of total project cost or 38% of baseline cost estimates net of fixed contract
amounts for helicopter spraying hours and technical assistance personnel
provided by FRG, which already include price and physical contingencies.
Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex Table 1 and are summarized
in Table 1.
B. Proposed Financing
6.03      The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) would participate in
project financing with DM 15.8 million (US$9.0 million or 25% of project
costs net of taxes)*, of which DM 1.75 million (US$1.0 million) would be in
the form of a grant and DM 14.0 million (US$8.0 million) as a loan on
terms similar to IDA's. Thus, together with the proposed IDA Credit of
US$16.0 million (45% of project costs net of taxes), external financing
would cover the project's foreign exchange component and about 11% of local
costs net of taxes. Government and livestock owners and farmers would
caver the remaining local cost of US$8.7 million and US$2.3 million respec-
tively (24% and 6% of project costs net of taxes), in addition to US$3.9
million of taxes. Table 2 summarizes the proposed financing plan.
6.04      The FRG would finance the technical assistance portion of tsetse
extermination costs, and the cost of hiring helicopters for spraying, as well
as 27% of the cost of the private sector credit program, i.e. 40% of loans to
livestock owners and farmers. The IDA Credit would finance 40% of total
project costs and, together with FRG's and Government's contributions, would be
deployed as follows:
a)   (i)  CFAF 1,911 million (US$9.1 million) would be onlent to FONADER
for 18 years, including a 4-year grace period on principal repayment,
and interest at 5%, for lending to the private sector. A condition
of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit would be that a subsidiary
financing agreement be entered into between Government and FONADER;
and
(ii) CFAF 468 million (US$2.2 million) would be passed on as a grant
to FONADER to cover their operating costs of the program during PYI
*    DM 1.75 = US$1.0



- 32 -
Table 1
Project Cost Estimates
CFAF Million          Percent         us$ Million
Components          Local   Foreign  Total   Foreign   Local   Foreign  Total
Exchange
1. Private Sector Credit
Program
(a) Loans to Private Sector      997       565   1,562       36       4.7      2.7      7.4
(b) Loan Administration
- Vehicles and Equipment      21        15       36      39       0.1      0.1      0.2
- Technical Assistance        37       147     184       80      0.2       0.7      0.9
- Operating Cost and         130         1      131      34      o.6        -       0.6
Local Personnel
Sub-total, Credit Program      1,185       728   1,913       38       5.6      3.5      9.1
2. SODEPA
(a) Headquarters                 267       148     415       36      1.2       0.7      1.9
(b) Slaughterhouses               66       220      286      64       0.3      1.0      1.3
(c) Ranches                       57       229     286       80       0.3      1.1      1.4
Sub-total, SODEPA                 390      597      987      56       1.8      2,8      4.6
3. MINEL
(a) Tsetse Fly Eradication
- Helicopter hours             -       800     800      100                3.8      3.8
- Technical Assistance        63       179     242       74      0.3       0.9      1.2
- Civil Works, Vehicles       109      132     241       55      0.5       o.6      1.1
and Equipment, Personnel
and Operating and
aircraft costs
- Insecticides               175       700     875       80                3.3     4.2
Sub-total, Tsetse Fly           347    1,U11   2,158        84      1.7       8.6    10.3
Eradication
(b)  Veterinary Field Service  261        369     630       59      1.2       1.8      3.0
(c)  Training                   118       125     243       52      o.6       o.6     1.2
(d)  Project Management         130       251     381       66      o.6       1.2     1.8
(e)  Follow-up Project           10        56      66       85      0.1       0.2      0.3
Sub-total, MINEL                866    2,612   3,478        75      4.i      12.4    16.6
TOJI BASE COST                   2,441    3,937   6,378        61      11.6     18.7    30.3
Contingencies
- Physical                           272      271      543      50       1.3      1.3      2.6
- Price                              724      755   1,479       50       3.4      3.6      7.0
Total Contingencies                  996    1,026   2,022       50       4.7      4.9      9.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                3,437    4,963   8,400        59      16.3     23.6    39.9
Duties and Taxes                     81L     -         814               3.9       -       3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS NET OF TAXES 2,623      4,963   7,5U6       65      12.4      23.6    36.0



- 33 -
to PY4 and the cost of technical assistance for the supervision of
the credit scheme including training and vehicles;
b)        CFAF 1,176 million (US$5.6 million) would be passed on as a
grant to SODEPA to finance management costs, civil works,
additional slaughterhouse equipment, and to finance the technical
assistance and vehicles for the ranches;
c)        CFAF 3,865 million (US$18.4 million) would be provided by Govern-
ment as budgetary allocations to the Ministry of Livestock and
Animal Industries to be allocated as follows:
(i) CFAF 2,373 million (US$11.3 million) to the project account of
the Special Mission for the Eradication of Glossines;
(ii)  CFAF 714 million (US$3.4 million) to cover the costs of Veterinary
Field Services;
(iii)  CFAF 294 million (US$1.4 million) to cover training expenditures
at the Faro Training Center and at the National Zootechnical and
Veterinary Training Center, Jakiri;
(iv)  CFAF 400 million (US$1.9 million) would be allocated for
project management; and
(v) CFAF 84 million (US$0.4 million) would be utilized in PY3 and
PY4 to finance the preparation of a possible follow-up project;
and
d)        CFAF 483 million (US$2.3 million, of which IDA US$1.5 million,
and Government US$0.8 million) remain unallocated.
6.05      Government has given assurances that (i) the proposed work program
including cost estimates, of the Special Mission for the Eradication of
Glossines be sent three months ahead of the beginning of the fiscal year for
review by the lending agencies (FRG financing agreement is expected to
contain the same clause); and (ii) that it would make available to FONADER,
SODEPA and MINEL, all funds necessary to carry out the project on the basis of
half yearly advances according to the executing agencies approved project
budgets. Such amounts would be sufficient to cover prefinancing for all items
which, under the terms of the IDA Credit, are eligible for reimbursement.
C. Procurement
6.06      Contracts for US$100,000 or more principally for the purchase of
vehicles and equipment for MINEL and SODEPA totalling about US$4.0 million,
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines except for the purchase of equipment to
complete the slaughterhouses. Such equipment, valued at about



- 34 -
Table 2
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
Ranchers
IDA    FRG   Farmers    Government   Total
1.  Private Sector Credit Program         3.2    3.7      2.3          4.4        13.6
2.  SODEPA                                3.0                          2.6         5.6
3. MINEL
(a)  Tsetse Eradication              4.3    5.3                   1.7        11.3
(b)  Veterinary Field Services       1.8                          1.6         3.4
(c)  Training                        o.6                          0.8         1.4
(d)  Project Management              1.2                          0.7         1.9
(e)  Preparation of Follow-up        0.4                                      o.4
Subtotal                            14.5    9.0       2.3        11.8        37.6
Unallocated                          1.5                           0.8         2.3
Total Project Cost                  16.0    9.0       2.3        12.6        39.9
(including taxes)
% Total                                40     23        6           31         100
Total Project Cost                  16.0    9.0       2.3          8.7        36.0
Net of Taxes
% Net of Tax                          45      25        6           24        100



- 35 -
US$0.4 million, would be purchased following negotiations with the original
supplier, for reasons of standardization. Insecticides worth US$2.6
million for the 1980/81 and 1981/82 spraying campaign would be procured
from the same suppliers who provided them for the first project (para
4.17). The balance of insecticide requirements worth about US$1.3 million
would be procured through Limited International Tendering. Contracts for
goods valued between US$30,000 and US$100,000 but totalling no more than
US$3.5 million would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA while individual contracts of less than US$30,000,
for a total not to exceed US$0.5 million, would be procured on basis of at
least three quotations. Orders would be grouped whenever practicable in order
to derive maximum benefit from bulk procurement.  Goods financed through
FONADER credits for livestock and farm development would be procured through
regular commercial channels (US$11.4 million). Contracts for remodeling and
construction of buildings totalling about US$4.0 million would be too small
and dispersed to attract international bidders and consequently would be
awarded following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
About US$2.0 million of procurement financed by Government and involving a
variety of items, particularly local salaries and falling under the general
heading of Operating Costs does not lend itself to bidding procedures. The
helicopter services for spraying and the technical assistance for tsetse
eradication, both involving costs of about US$5.3 million would be financed in
parallel by FRG which would apply its own rules on procurement.
D. Disbursements
6.07      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over 4-1/2 years to cover the
following expenditures:
1.   By FONADER:
a)   25% of sub-loans to livestock owners, mixed farmers and small
farmers - US$2.3 million;
b)   80% of total expenditures representing the estimated foreign
exchange component on vehicles and equipment for credit
administration - US$0.1 million; and
c)   80% of total expenditures representing the estimated foreign
exchange component for technical assistance - US$0.8 million.
2.   By SODEPA:
a)   60% of total expenditures for civil works - US$0.65 million;
b)   80% of total expenditures representing the estimated foreign
exchange component on vehicles and equipment, and veterinary
supplies - US$1.25 million; and
c)   80% of total expenditures representing the estimated foreign
exchange component for technical assistance - US$1.1 million.



- 36 -
3.   By Ministry of Livestock and Animal Production:
a)   Tsetse Fly Extermination:
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for insecticides - US$3.9
million;
(ii) 50% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component on vehicles, equipment and
fixed-wing aircraft hire costs - US$0.3 million; and
(iii) 60% of total expenditures for civil' work -
US$0.1 million.
b)   Veterinary Field Services:
(i)  60% of total expenditures for construction/
reconstruction of houses, office buildings and
cattle crushes - US$1.4 million; and
(ii) 80% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component on vehicles and veterinary
equipment - US$0.4 million.
c)   Training:
(i)  60% of total expenditures for reconstruction of class-
rooms, dormitories and facilities - US$0.1 million;
(ii) 80% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component on vehicles and equipment -
US$0.1 million; and
(iii) 80% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component for technical assistance -
US$0.4 million.
d)   Project Coordination and Monitoring:
(i)  80% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component on vehicles and equipment -
US$0.05 million;
(ii) 80% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component for technical assistance -
US$1.2 million; and
(iii) 80% of total expenditures representing the estimated
foreign exchange component for preparation of a possible
follow-up project - US$0.4 million.



- 37 -
US$1.45 million would be unallocated. A schedule of disbursement is in
Annex Table 2. With the exception of category 1 (a) (para 6.07)--loans to
livestock owners, mixed farmers and small crop farmers--all disbursement
claims would be fully documented. Disbursements for loans'made by FONADER
would be against certified statements of expenditures, with supporting
documentation retained by FONADER for examination during supervision.
6.08      While the FRG would disburse directly for salaries and operating
costs of technical assistance staff used in tsetse eradication campaigns,
and for the helicopter spraying, it would disburse pari passu with IDA for
the private sector credit program loans in the ratio of 2:1. Conditions of
disbursement for the credit and tsetse eradication components would be that
the FRG loan for these elements is effective and that arrangements satis-
factory to IDA for the technical assistance to be provided by the FRG
have been made.
6.09      To assure financing for the 1979/80 spraying campaign, retro-
active financing for the purchase of insecticides in the amount of US$1.3
million, made after October 31, 1979 is proposed. As funds under the first
loan (LN 983-CM) have been exhausted, this financing would ensure the
continuity of the eradication program started under the first project.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.10      FONADER would keep separate accounts for the six types of loans
to livestock owners, mixed farmers and small crop farmers (para 5.03).
SODEPA would also maintain its accounts in such a way as to clearly distin-
guish between costs related to different operations, and would prepare, in
addition to a consolidated financial statement, annual income and expenditure
accounts for the two slaughterhouses, ranches, headquarters and land alloca-
tion operations. FONADER's and SODEPA's project related accounts would be
subject to an annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Such
audit reports would be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after the
close of FONADER's and SODEPA's financial years. The auditor's report on
FONADER project accounts would include a special opinion on the documentation
supporting the statements of expenditures against which IDA had reimbursed
funds to cover 25% of the loans (category 1.(a) para 6.07). MINEL would keep
separate accounts for the Special Mission for the Eradication of Glossines,
the animal health service, the training component, the Project Coordination
Unit, and for expenditures spent on preparation of a possible follow-up
project. While the Special Mission would keep its accounts in its Readquar-
ters in Ngaoundere, present accounting procedures would be retained in MINEL
for the other components under its direction. Government also agreed that the
accounts of the Special Mission would be subject to an audit by auditors
acceptable to IDA. Other project-related accounts of MINEL would be subject
to existing governmental audit procedures. Since experience under the first
project in having these audits completed was poor the PCU (para 5.02) would
be responsible for monitoring these tasks in the proposed project.



- 38 -
VII. TECHNOLOGY AND TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
A. Productivity
7.01      Resettlement of the tsetse-freed areas in the Adamaoua Plateau
would result in improved herd productivity since good pasture would be
available for the cattle allowed to re-enter. This would also help the
performance of the cattle remaining in the overgrazed areas by substantially
reducing grazing pressure and thereby improving the feeding level. The
proposed project would upgrade animal health services and thus further increase
herd productivity. The expected changes in the main production coefficients
resulting from better feeding and health services for a typical herd in the
tsetse-freed area of the Adamaoua Plateau are summarized below. Predicting
the extent of improvement is difficult. However, knowing what progress is
being made is important, so that the PCU would, with the Veterinary Field
Service, monitor the development of selected herds.
With Project
Without Project   After 3 Years  After 5 Years
Weaning Rate (%)                   35                40              50
Adult Mortality (%)                  6                 6              5
Herd Productivity                   il               13              15
7.02      The productivity of herds in the proposed credit program for cattle
breeding/fattening ranches would also rise. Gains would be attributable to
improved animal health services, and supplementary feeding, mainly with
cottonseed cake during the dry season. It has been shown that supplementary
feeding can shorten the fattening period for steers--from 3 to 2 years--and can
reduce the mating age for heifers--from 3 to 2 years. It is expected that
herd offtake would increase from 11% traditionally obtained to about 16%.
7.03      The pig and poultry credit programs would finance pig breeding/
fattening using modern breeds, mainly Landrace or Large White. Egg/cockerel
and broiler production would be based mainly on Rhode Island Reds, White
Leghorn and Slaver Starcross. Emphasis would be placed on feeding balanced
rations which would be purchased or home mixed. Although beneficiaries would
have a good knowledge of traditional pig and poultry production, it is
expected that the majority would have little if any experience of modern
commercial production. Allowance has been made for this by using production
coefficients which inexperienced operators are judged capable of achieving in
practice. Borrowers would be provided with technical support for pig and
poultry production by FONADER staff. With these assumptions, a pig production
unit with f ive sows would produce annually two culled sows, one culled
boar, and 43 finished pigs. All labor requirements would be provided by
the family, Production coefficients would be:
P2-giets born per sow and year   . .................  12
Fattened pigs sold per SOW and year .................   9
Weight at sale (kg) ................... a.100
Age at sale (months) ....................      . .         9
Feed conversion ratio (kg feed/kg liveweight) ...          5.5:1



- 39 -
There is little accurate information on production coefficients in the tradi-
tional system, but it is estimated that the number of pigs produced per sow
per year is not more than five, that the slaughter weight is about 50 kg at 1
year of age, and feed conversion efficiency is not less than 8:1 because
unbalanced rations are used.
7.04     A broiler production unit with the capacity for 1,000 birds would
employ part time labor and would produce annually about 3,000 broilers; the
main production coefficients would be:
Batches per year ......... ............................   3
Mortality t%) ................................   ........  10
Liveweight at sale (kg) .............           .......   1.5
Age at sale (weeks)        .................................   9.5
Feed conversion ratio (kg feed/kg liveweight) .......  3:1
There is no comparable production system in the traditional sector. A unit
producing eggs and cockerels with housing for 500 hens and 500 cockerels would
need a full time worker. Output over a 2-year production cycle would be about
87,000 eggs, 500 cockerels and 300 culled layers. Production coefficients
would be:
Age at point of lay (weeks)  ........................  26
Age at sale, layers (weeks)    ......................... 104
Eggs/hen/year - lst year    ............................  75
- 2nd year . .......   .... .    ............... 150
Feed consumption 0-26 weeks (kg) .....     ...............  12
27-l04 weeks (kg) .............. ..... 50
Mortality:  Growers % ......................................  15
Layers % - lst year ............ ........  12.5
-   2nd  year   ......   ....................   .    25
In the traditional sector, mortalities are often very high -- up to 100% in
the absence of vaccination. The average number of eggs produced per hen is
not known.
7.05     Production on small crop farms in the perimeter of the tsetse-freed
zone would be raised through increased yields and iniproved storage of produce.
Yields would improve through the use of better seeds, fertilizer and insecti-
cides as shown in the following schedule. At present, yields are low because
producers are not able to purchase these items although the area has a good
potential for crop production. Heretofore, credit has not been available and
a supply system for inputs did not exist. FONJADER would supply the required
inputs from its depot in Ngaoundere, and technical assistance would be pro-
vided by MINEL's agricultural extension agents in the area. Yields would be
expected to increase as follows:



- 40 -
Without Project    With Project
(kg/ha)           (kg/ha)
Maize                                   800             1,700
Sorghum                                 700             1,200
Cassava                               6,000             9,000
Groundnut                               300               600
Sweet Potatoes                        6,000             8,000
A typical farm would be expected to maintain a cropping pattern that includes
0.5 ha maize, 0.5 ha sorghum, 0.6 ha cassava, 0.1 ha sweet potatoes, 0.2 ha
groundnuts and 3.0 ha fallow.
7.06      Livestock output on small mixed farms would be limited by the small
herd size of about six head. A typical farmer would sell one fattened steer
or one culled cow, and 400 liters of milk each year. The expected main
production coefficients are:
Without Project      With Project
Weaning Rate (%)                       35                   50
Adult Mortality (%)                     6                     5
Steers age at sale (yrs)                5                    4
B. Animal Health
7.07      One of the most important steps in increasing herd productivity
would be the establishment of animal health services, with well equipped
and supplied veterinary posts and adequately trained staff to ensure inspec-
tion for and treatment of trypanosomiasis, vaccination against blackquarter
and hemorrhagic septicaemia, deticking, and deworming. Livestock owners
would be advised to deworm and detick their herds and special attention
would be given to calf rearing. The projected increase in the weaning rate
from 35% to 50% (para 7.01) would be largely due to reduced calf mortality.
7.08      Although all the common diseases that affect pigs are present,
they can be controlled with hygiene, vaccination and appropriate veterinary
medicibes. Pigs would be dewormed and deloused regularly, and iron supple-
ments would prevent anemia in piglets. Breeding stock should be vacci-
nated against erysipelas and swine fever. Pigs may be infected by trypano-
somiasis with losses up to 80% and therefore, in the credit program particular
attention would be given to making pig loans in tsetse free areas only.
7.09      All common diseases affecting poultry are present in Cameroon.
Chicks would be vaccinated against Newcastle disease and fowl pest. Attention
would be given to avoid para-typhoid infections in day-old chicks at hatch-
eries, which otherwise can cause high mortality.



- 41 -
7.10      Provided good hygiene is maintained, pig, poultry and cattle dis-
eases can be controlled and treated if the required vaccines and drugs are
available. Preventive and curative medicines are readily available on world
markets. The Office des Produits Veterinaires (Bureau of Veterinary Pro-
ducts) is the main importer of veterinary medicines into Cameroon, but in the
past, supplies have not always been sufficient or available when needed.
Therefore, Government has assured that FONADER would be allowed to procure
sufficient veterinary medicines for resale to producers to ensure that they
are fully supplied.
VIII. M4ARKETS, PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Market Prospects
8.01      Demand for meat and meat products in Cameroon, as elsewhere, is
mainly determined by population growth and changes in per capita demand for
the meat concerned. This latter, in turn, is influenced by per capita income,
the cost of the meat, and the consumer's preference for one meat over another
at their respective prices. Precise estimates of the strength of these
influences are not presently available for Cameroon. However, it is assumed
that (i) a fall in the price of any meat would result in proportionally
greater global consumption of it, and (ii) for the average Cameroonian family,
there is very little practical differentiation between meat products. Demand
for meat is also strongly income elastic--in fact, average per capita urban
consumption is probably double the average rural per capita consumption.
Current annual consumption of meat in Cameroon is about 105,000 tons. How-
ever, taking growth in urban and rural populations (para 1.07) as the main
determinants of demand, and 21 kg and 11.5 kg as the urban and rural per
capita consumption levels respectively, a total demand for all meats of about
150,000 tons is projected by 1985.
8.02      The supply of meat in Cameroon is difficult to measure or forecast
because of inadequate statistics. It is, however, estimated that by 1985
production of all meat would be at about 125,000 tons, an increase of only 15
percent over the present level of 105,000 tons. This implies that demand will
exceed supply at or about current price levels for meat products.
B. Prices and Ilarket Structure
8.03      The traditional market system for meat in Cameroon serves most of
the needs of the rural population and most urban families of Cameroonian
origin. There is also a small modern urban market, largely patronized by
families not of Cameroonian origin. The types of meat and the levels of
prices in these two markets are significantly different, as shown in the
following schedule:



- 42 -
Market Prices, 1978
Traditional Markets                        Modern City Markets
TYPE                             CFAF/kg        TYPE                      CFAF/kg
Beefmeat with bone                455           Filet of Beef              2,320
Beefmeat without bone             620           Rumpsteak                  1,852
Pigmeat with fat                  628           Veal                       2,100
Live Chicken                      600           Pork roast (with bone)   1,700
Roast Chicken              1,100
The traditional market, in which most of the production resulting from the
proposed project would be sold, is generally competitive.  A small amount
of project production--mainly pork and poultry--would enter the modern
market, which uses refrigeration, modern dressing and packaging. Marketing
facilities and local processing installations appear adequate for handling
the expected increases in production and need no further modification at
this time.
C. Financial Analysis
Project Beneficiaries
8.04      Financial rates of return on producer investments under the credit
program are summarized in the following schedule:
Average Fixed Investment
and Incremental Working          Financial
Type of Investment                  Capital Per Beneficiary       Rate of Return
(CFAF '000)        (US$)            (%)
Pig Breeding/Fattening                  2,000          9,100             18
Broiler Production                      1,500          6,800      Over 100
Eggs and Cockerel Production            1,510          6,800             36
Small Mixed Farm                          375          1,700             18
Cattle Breeding/Fattening Ranch        4,100         18,600              15
Small Crop Farm                            73            330             40
The estimated financial rates of return indicate that it would be financially
rewarding for farmers to make the necessary investments envisaged. Illustra-
tive models of these enterprises, showing details of investments, sales and
operating expense projections, and cash flows are in the project file.
Benefits of the public sector, investments in animal health, and tsetse fly
eradication, are discussed in Chapter IX.



- 43 -
FONADER
8.05      A cash flow projection for FONADER's traditional sector credit
scheme activities is at Annex Table 4. Government would finance through a
grant, expenditures for vehicles, technical assistance and some operating
expenditures experienced during PY1-PY4 when most of the sub-loans would be
in their grace period (para 5.05). After this period, however, FONADER
would cover from its earnings all debt service and credit administration
costs as well as a provision for bad debts.
Government
8.06      Governient's cash flow, as presented at Annex Table 3, is based on
the following assumptions: (a) that the current cattle tax is collected on
all incremental cattle numbers, (b) that Government would receive tax revenues
on expenditures made during project life, and afterwards; (c) that incremental
income earned by project beneficiaries would generate tax revenue for govern-
ment; (d) that FONADER would repay its loan over 18 years with four year's
grace period on principal, and (e) that operating expenditures for the Special
Mission, and veterinary field services would continue to be paid from general
tax revenues. Expenditures for SODEPA are considered to be part of general
government expenditures, since Government would make all future transfers to
SODEPA as grants (para 6.04).  Income from slaughterhouses is estimated to be
sufficient only to cover the operating costs and loan repayment of the plants
so that they would have no net effect on Government's cash flow. By PY18,
Government would show a cumulative deficit of CFAF 978 million (US$4.7 mil-
lion), which would be the result of a net deficit at the end of PY4 of CFAF
1,472 million (US$7.0 million), average annual positive balances of CFAF 115
million (US$0.5 million) for PY5 to PY12 and annual average negative balances
of about CFAF 71 million (US$0.3 million) from PY13 to PY18. This expected
negative cash flow would occur in spite of acceptable economic rates of return
to project activities (para 9.10) and positive financial returns for project
beneficiaries (para 8.05). The cash flow deficit arises mainly because the
means of recovering costs from the traditional sector is not fully developed.
IDA would continue a dialogue with Government, encouraging it to consider
practical means through which some of the economic benefits of the project
could be recaptured to offset recurrent costs. Government would prepare a
study of these means before mid 1982. Possible measures could include, inter
alia, the review of presently inefficient cattle tax system, charges for
vaccinations and veterinary services, rental charges on leased land for
settled ranching, and grazing charges on cattle entering the tsetse-freed
zone.



- 44 -
IX. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
9.01      The principal project benefit would be the increased supply of
meat for domestic consumption.  Total incremental meat production is
estimated at about 4,600 tons annually after PY8. Pastoralists and ranchers
reentering the fly-freed zone in Adamaoua Plateau, benefiting from the
effects of an improved animal health service and improved feeding possibili-
ties, would produce at full development in PY8, an annual increment of
about 3,200 tons of beef, that is, 10% over and above the annual production
projected for the plateau without the project. As most of the cattle
produced in the area are finally butchered in Yaounde and Douala, this
increase in production would augment the urban beef supply. Production
from credit supported ranches in the Ndokayo area would add an additional
140 tons of beef in the Eastern Province. The development of pork and
poultry production in the northwestern and southern zones would provide 760
tons of pork and 300 tons of poultry meat annually. This additional supply
would be sold locally and in the Douala area. By PY5, producers assisted
under the credit program for cattle fattening on small mixed farms in the
North-West Province would produce an additional 80 tons of beef annually
and the production from credit supported ranches in the Dumbo area would
provide an additional 140 tons of beef. An additional 4.5 million eggs,
200,000 litres of milk and crops valued at about CFAF 15 million (US$68,000)
per year would be produced annually at full development.
9.02      The principal consumer beneficiaries would be those who buy food
in traditional markets in urban areas whose consumption of meat is lower than
more affluent urban dwellers. Rural inhabitants in the northwestern zones
would also benefit from local production.
9.03      The principal producer beneficiaries would be farmers and herdsmen
who would receive credit and use animal health services and who would be able
to graze their animals--where permitted--in the zone freed of tsetse flies in
the Adamaoua Plateau. A summary of the producer beneficiaries and benefits is
given at Annex Table 5. In general, the benefits would be in the form of
incremental annual net cash income. However, herdsmen would also benefit from
the accumulation of capital in bigger herds.
9.04      Less easily quantifiable indirect benefits would also be realized.
In the Adamaoua Plateau, crop producers would help maintain the animal-free
status to the northeast of the zone freed from tsetse flies in a protective
barrier. Reopening the zone previously infested would also relieve the
localized grazing pressure on areas into which herds moved to avoid the tsetse
advance. Finally, the successful completion of the eradication program would
arrest the advance of the fly towards the south, which would effectively
protect an additional 900,000 ha from the threat of infestation.
9.05      The development of a significant number of more intensive animal
breeding and fattening enterprises may also support the further development of



- 45 -
the commercial agricultural supply industry--feed, supplies and materials--
as well as marketing systems and slaughterhouses. The supplier and marketing
channels thus stimulated would further expand rural employment and income
opportunities.
9.06      A residual and long-lasting benefit from the project would be the
strengthening of Government institutions in administrative and policy-making
functions. Participation in the organization and execution of programs such
as the tsetse eradication campaign would continue to improve Government's
experience in managing complex tasks. Broadening the farm planning and
advisory activities under FONADER would strengthen the extension
capacity within Government services. Handling issues that would undoubtedly
arise in the course of project implementation would further develop Govern-
ment's ability to manage the mechanics of monitoring, evaluation and policy
formulation (para 2.10) and financial control.
B. Environmental Impact
9.07      Environmental questions will not occur with most project components,
with the exception of the tsetse eradication (para 9.08). In the case of the
slaughterhouses, adequate precautions have been taken under the first project
to treat effluents before these enter normal water systems.
9.08      Viewed on a broad scale, the project would have beneficial ecolo-
gical effects. Tsetse eradication would permit the controlled re-entry of
livestock into the cleared area and would reduce overgrazing and pasture
degradation outside the infested zones. This would also help redress the
ecological imbalance in the vegetation cover in the infested zone that the
removal of cattle had created. The insecticide spraying method that was
followed in the first project was designed so as to minimize the possi-
bility of negative environmental effects and no significant evidence of envi-
ronmental damage was found in three years of spraying. The insecticides that
were found technically and economically effective (para 4.17) were used in
doses that fell below those considered objectionable in other areas of the
world (in the USA for example), for insecticides of similar composition. The
campaigns made single applications of insecticides--allowing for a maximum
respraying over only 10 percent of the area. Finally, insecticide applications
were targeted on the habitat of the fly which accounts for about 20% of the
area actually infested (para 4.16) and spraying was conducted by highly
trained technicians. These methods would continue to be used in the proposed
project. None-the-less, the Special Mission would continue its surveillance of
the sprayed areas and report on new evidence of environmental damage if it
occurs. In addition, these tests would include any new insecticides offered
for trial in the 1980/81 campaign (para 4.17).
C. Economic Prices
9.09      For the economic analysis of project components, the local portion
of all costs and benefits was multiplied by the standard conversion factor of



- 46 -
0.73 to remove the distorting effects of broader measures in domestic prices.
Taxes were excluded and physical contingencies were included in the calculation
(project file). However, no adjustment was made in cattle prices when esti-
mating the benefits of tsetse eradication, animal health or the credit schemes
for cattle. Cattle herds move internationally, in spite of governmental
regulations, with imports freely entering from Chad, and exports unofficially
flowing to Nigeria, so that cattle prices received by Cameroonian producers
reflect supply and demand conditions outside the Cameroonian domestic market
as well as within, and can be taken as border prices. Further, as there is
freedom of entry and exit in almost all activities in the cattle marketing
system--including slaughtering, since a sizeable percentage of the slaughter
is made outside Government regulated slaughterhouses--prices throughout the
system are determined competitively.
D. Economic Analysis
9.10      Economic analysis was performed on all productive project compo-
nents--the credit, the tsetse eradication, and the animal health components.
Accounting for 75% of project base costs, they are estimated to have an
overall economic rate of return of 18%. The results of the analysis,
showing the sensitivity of project components are sunmmarized in Table 3.
The credit component was analyzed with credit administration costs accounted
for. Under these assumptions, the credit component yields an economic rate
of return of 19%. The financial rates of return of the separate enterprises
in the program are presented in para 8.04. The economic rates of return to
pigs, and eggs/broiler enterprises are more sensitive to changes in
the margin between input costs and revenue, than the cattle or crop enter-
prises because of their greater dependance on purchased inputs.
9.11      rn the analysis of the tsetse eradication program, the costs and
benefits under the first and the proposed second project were combined,
since, in effect, the component proposed in the second project is not a
separate activity but a continuation making a separate analysis invalid.
Arbitrarily, only 80% of these costs were taken as chargeable against the
benefits derived from traditional sector's economic use of the cleared area
in order te compensate for an inability to account for the social value of
reoccupying the cleared area. Of the cleared area, 100,000 ha are expected
to be used by sedentary ranches developed under the credit program. A
carrying capacity of one animal unit per 13 ha was assumed on the 1.2
million ha remaining, to allow for agricultural use and non-use of some of
the !and cleared,  Land would be reoccupied over a five-year period.  After
reoccupation, herds are assuned to grow at rates traditionally experienced
when -anrestricted by pasture shortages (para 7.01). Costs and implementation
schedules used in the analysis reflect the experience in the first project.
On these assumptions, the tsetse program yields an economic rate of return
of 17%.
9.12      An eight-year lead time was assumed before the effects of improved
animal hea5 th services on the herd in the Adamaoua Plateau became evident in
increased sales, Benefits measured in terms of incremental offtake were



- 47 -
phased in over five years starting in PY8, while costs are incurred from the
first project year. Under these assumptions, the economic rate of return for
the animal health component is 20%.
9.13      A separate calculation of the rate of return for project components
centered in the Adamaoua Plateau--that is, tsetse eradication, animal health
services, and relevant portions of the credit schemes, which account for 60%
of project costs--shows a rate of return of 17%. When all overhead costs are
included, the economic rate of return of the entire project is about 16%.
E. Risks
9.14      The proposed project has an overall management risk with regard
to implementation and specific risks associated with its major components.
To make project management more effective, the PCU would undertake the devel-
opment of a monitoring and evaluation system (para 5.10). The credit compo-
nents share the risk that producers as well as FONADER field staff may lack
some of the essential knowledge of production that would allow the credit to
be used well. The risk is potentially greater for pigs and poultry because a
significant number of less experienced individuals would be encouraged to
enter new production lines (para 4.05). Two steps would be undertaken to help
reduce these specific risks. First, the number of loans within the project
would be limited to allow for adequate assistance in preparation and supervi-
sion by technical field staff; and second, Government would undertake to
appoint technical supervisory staff who would work under the guidance of
internationally recruited credit specialists (para 5.04) to improve the
technical supervision capability of the FONADER field offices at Bamenda and
Ngaoundere. This would permit field staff to respond quickly and effectively
to production and credit related issues as they arise at any stage in the
credit cycle.
9.15      FONADER has now begun to decentralize its credit administration and
would keep IDA informed of further plans to decentralize. This would allow
for more timely processing of loans and disbursement of funds. However, it
also entails some risk, since under an expanded credit progran, decentraliza-
tion would place added demands on staff and require more sophisticated proce-
dures to ensure internal efficiency. To reduce this risk FONADER has
recruited a specialist in credit administration to assist in developing
improved management procedures with primary responsibility for training, from
its own resources.
Tsetse Eradication
9.16      Failure to have both timely delivery of spray materials, and careful
follow-up with ground crews would threaten the effectiveness of eradication
efforts.  During the first project, these difficulties were experienced (para
2.04).  To minimize such problems in the proposed extension of the program,
Government has agreed to change the financial administrative system for the
Special Mission to eliminate these delays (para 5.09).



Table 3
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Rate of Return (%)---
Percent of     Point         Cost          Benefit
Coniponents              Project Cost   Estimate   Fall  Rise    Rise  Fall   Lag
10%   10%     10%   10%    i Yr
1.  CREDIT COMPONENT a/                      33           19         25    15      25    14      10
(a) Pig breeding/fattening               6            14        24      4      23     3       7
(b) Broiler production                   2       (over 100%)   n.a.  n.a.    n.a.  n.a.    39
(c) Eggs and dockerel production         2            30        47    15       45    13      12
(d) Small mixed farms                    3            20        24    18       23    17      16
(e) Breeding/fattening ranches          10           24         26    22       26    21      20
(f) Small crop farms                     1            37        49    27       48    26      20
2.  TSETSE ERADICATION                      32            17        18    15       18    15      15
3.  ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICE                   10            20        21    19       21    19      19
4. ADAMAOUA SECTOR b!                       60            17        19    16       19    16      15
5. PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS c/                 75            18        20    16       20    16      15
6,  FULL PROJECT 9j/                       100            16        18    14       18    13      13
a Includes cost and benefit of subcomponents, and all costs of credit administration.
b/ Includes animal health (100 percent),tsetse eradication (100 percent), credit
for breeding/fattening ranches (two-thirds of total plus half of credit
administration charges) and small crop farms.
c/ Total of credit, tsetse eradication and animal health components.
d/ Ali productive components plus costs attributable to SODEPA and
MINEL Headquarters.



- 49 -
9.17      There is a risk associated with accurately determining the extent
of infestation in the Adamaoua Plateau, even when carefully conducted entomo-
logical surveys have been carried out. The most certain precaution against
this risk is the timely and efficient execution of the campaign over the
1979-82 period. The current proposals reflect the best expectations as to the
limits and density of infestations and the efficiency of clearing activity
based on experience under the first project. However, an extra year's spraying
has been projected as a precaution in case the flies advance more rapidly than
expected or other difficulties arise (para 4.16).
9.18      Reinfestation would continue to threaten the cleared zone during and
after the proposed project, particularly following the return of cattle. A
system of resurvey and local extermination, as proposed (para 4.19), would be
vital to reduce this risk, as would strong barrier maintenance. Within the
proposed project, a credit component is included whose effect would be to
stimulate animal-free agriculture in a five kilometer wide zone to the north-
east of the freed area. In addition, Government has confirmed the proper
continuation of the efforts to preserve the eradication results (para 10.01)
and assure the creation in association with the animal health component of
sufficient inspection points and procedures for adequate monitoring of animals
moving into the Adamaoua Plateau. Furthermore, a dialogue between interested
parties would be stimulated to consider means of controlling trypanosomiasis
with fewer long tern risks and lower costs than the insecticidal means now
employed (paras 4.16,9.08).
X.  ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOIUOENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that
section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement for the Livestock Development Project (LN
983-CM) would be extended to cover the proposed project. This assurance
covers the protection of the tsetse-freed zone (para 9.18).
10.02     Further, agreement was reached with Government on the following
principal points:
(a)  It would second nine technical staff to FONADER with satisfactory
qualifications and experience in livestock development to be located
at FONADER field offices (para 5.04);
(b)  FONADER would be allowed to procure stocks of veterinary medicines
and supplies for resale to credit recipients (para 7.10);
(c) the Special Mission would make surveys to define the southern
limit of infestation, define the northern perimeter to be defended
and prepare a detailed plan for the defense of this perimeter for
IDA's approval as soon as possible but not later than September 30,
1980. It would also submit its plan for the continuation of subse-
quent spraying campaigns at that tirie (para 4.19);



- 50 -
(d) MINEL would provide staffing and facilities to establish, with the
Special Mission, four posts for the control of cattle re-entering
the tsetse freed zone in the Adamaoua Plateau (para 5.08);
(e) it would employ, or cause to have employed key technical
assistance staff whose qualifications and terms of reference
would be acceptable to IDA (paras 4.23, 5.02, 5.04, 5.07, and
5.09);
(f) it would prepare a completion report for submission to the financing
agencies not later than six months after the completion of disburse-
ments (para 5.11);
(g) it would ensure that the budget and work program of the Special
Mission be submitted for review by the lending agencies three months
ahead of the beginning of each financial year and would make avail-
able to FONADER, SODEPA and MINEL funds necessary to carry out the
project (para 6.05);
(h) FONADER, SODEPA, MINEL and the Special Mission would maintain
adequate accounts, and have these audited within six months after the
close of their financial years by independent auditors with experience
and qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 6.10);
(i) Government would prepare a detailed program including a timetable
for its execution acceptable to IDA for achieving a more economic
and efficient use of the resources of the three SODEPA ranches of
Duumbo, Ndokayo and Faro, not later than June 30, 1980 (para 2.11);
(j) it would finalize and submit for IDA's approval, a training program
to be carried out within the Special MIission, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1980 (para 4.25); and
(k) Following a satisfactory evaluation of the ongoing project to be
carried out by the co-financers jointly with MINEL during the
first half of 1982, preparations of a possible follow-up project
be undertaken following terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
prepared by MINEL not later than June 30, 1982, by individuals with
qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 4.26).
10.03    Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the project coor-
dinator be hired and in post and that a subsidiary financing agreement be
entered into between Government and FONADER (para. 5.02 and 6.04).
10.04    Conditions of disbursement for the credit and tsetse eradication
components would be that the FRG loan for these elements is effective and that
arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the technical assistance to be provided
for by the FRG have been made (para 6.08)
10.05           Subject to these assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$16.0 million.



APPENDIX
- 51 -
CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
Terms of Reference
Purpose
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be directly responsible to
MINEL for coordinating, monitoring, evaluating and reconmending modification
in the execution of all project activities. The execution of individual
project components would remain with the implementation agencies nominated in
the Staff Appraisal Report.
Rational
During the implementation of the first project, the agency respon-
sible for overall project coordination and management--SODEPA--was also the
executing agent for specific project components. However, the effort to
overcome difficulties in executing specific operations demanded considerably
more management effort than had been allowed for at appraisal. Moreover,
the expertise employed proved to be less suited for the more general
project monitoring, evaluation and follow-up than for executing and managing
physical investment programs.  Any new staff to be recruited to correct the
shortcoming would have expertise different than that required for management
of physical installations and establishing a manager unit with clearly
separate project management functions would make their efforts more organized
and efficient. The Unit would also need to be headquartered geographically
so as to maximize its effectiveness in performing its functions.
Organization
The PCU would be organized by Government within the general secre-
tariat of the MINEL in Yaounde with the mandate to conduct the project. It
vould be headed by a Project Coordinator, recruited specifically for the post,
for the duration of the project. He would have overall responsibility for the
unit and the execution of all of its functions.  He would have demonstrated
abilities in project management, and significant experience in livestock
development in Africa. He would be assisted by a training specialist who
vould be responsible for advising all executing agencies on training conducted
under the project, and by a unit accounts clerk, secretary and driver. A
regional planning specialist would also be employed and located in Ngaoundere,
to advise Government on the phased resettlement and ultimate use of land in
the tsetse freed zone, taking into account, inter alia, the results of a land
use study being prepared by the Federal Republic of Germany and the objectives
of the Upper Faro Valley Development Commission.



APPENDIX
Page 2
Functions                            - 52 -
The PCU would perform various functions in the areas of project
performance, finance and training as illustrated below:
1.   In the area of project coordination it would:
(a) advise on Government's selection of key project personnel
and assist in arranging for their placement in post;
(b) recommend and initiate actions to ensure that project
activities requiring joint execution by different agencies
progress smoothly; and
(c) compile consolidated performance reports and financial
statements on the project for the Government and financial
agencies.
2.   In the area of project management it would:
(a) assist in developing in each executing agency, a system
for collecting information and data on their subproject
performance;
(b)  assist supervising the flow of funds, materials, and
expertise to executing agencies, and in the expedition of
procurement as required; and
(c) organize a project reporting system and a schedule
from the implementing agencies to PCU, which xçould
serve as the basis for progress and financial reports
to Government and financing agencies.
3.   In the area of project evaluation it would:
(a) establish, with executing agencies, performance criteria
and benchmarks against which progress would be measured;
and
(b) make for further Government action, a periodic assessment
of the actual performance of executing agencies, arriving
at explanations for shortfalls or advances relative to
performance benchmarks.
4.   As project advisor it would recommend for Government action
adjustments in the execution of project components as war-
ranted.
The PCU would initiate work leading to the preparation of a possible
follow-up project, and would prepare for Government a completion report on the
proposed project within six months following the completion of disbursements.



- 53 -
SECOOD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       ANNEX
Table 1
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(CFAF '000)
- - -- --a   - -- - -- -- - --- F,E .-- -- -- --
Conponent                               PYl         PY2          PY3         PY4         Total          Amount               Amo-ut
1.  PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT PROGRAM
(a> Loans to Priv-te Souton
- Fig bnnnddcg/Oattnnn                             40000        80000        140000     140000        400000           48000       12      200000       50
- Broller production                               15000        30000         52500      52500        150000           18000       12      105000       70
- Elgg  and Cockrel production                     15250        30250         52750      52750        151000           18120       12       75500       50
- Sma1l nord fanon                                 11250        26250         75000      75000        187500           22500       12       93750       50
- Ornnding/afttcriog ranch                         550         044250        206250     006250        615000           75800       12       61500       10
- ral1 c-p fa-o  (0215                             5650        10800         21200      202080        08080            6920       12       90500       50
Sub-Total l.a                                     143320       321640        548280     548280       1561500          087390       12      564970       36
(b)  toan Adiinistrn:
- Vehiclos ard oqaipmrnt                           32875          -             -         3500         365?g           10902      30        14535       39
- total p-nn.cnel                                  20080        25980         25560      25800        103920           10592       10          -        -
- Orchcical Asnintance                             46000        46000        46000       46000        164000             -         -       147200       60
- Operating Cnont                                  10116        10116         10106      10116         40464           11199       28       13835       34
Sub-Total l.b:                                    114971        82096         82096      85596        364759           32493        9      175570      48
TOTAL 1:                                                    5591s1      403736        630376      633876      192613q          219883       il       240540      38
2. 0CDEPA
(a)   9
-  aona1 personnel                                 26790        26790        26790       26790        107160            6422        6         -         -
- Tachnlcai ounlntoaco                ~~~~~61000   51000         380000     21000        121000             -         -       136800       80
- OprrotiOg assistanct                             30750         0750       230750       30750        123000           26000      21        10960        9
- Vaccines and Mediîine                             5500         3500         5000        0000         14000             -         -
S0b-Cotal 2.a:                                    124040       112040        100540      78540        415160           32422        8      147760       37
b Ciil 9 -heou                                   12500C        50000         -            -          175000          26250       15       115500      66
- Vnhiclen and Equipm.ent                         65000       45600          4400         -          115000          27123       17       104415      90
Sob-Tonal 2.b:                                   180000        95600          4400        -          290000           53373       19      219915       75
(c> Ranchnu
- Tachoical aunincanna                            22000        22000        22000       22000         88000             -         -        70400       80
- Vehicles and oquap-ent                          19500        19500        19500       19500         78000           32760      42        58500       75
-      Taccines and nndicinen                     30000        30000        30000       30000        120000             -        -        100000       83
Sab-Tctal 2.-:                                    71500        71500         71500      71500        286000           32760               228900       80
TOTAL 2:                                                    385540      279140        176440      150040       991600          118554       11      596575       60
3. MINEL
(n)  Tsntse Fly Onadicatlon Cannfniîn..
- Ciel W-korn                                       7200        16460          -           -           23660            2760      12         7729      33
- Vnhiclns and nquipnett                           43300        19050         3400        4150         69900           20271      29        40765       59
= T,cal peTaonI                                     9050         9050         9050        9050         36200            1448       4          -         -
- Cobcio al annin canon                           104415        63415        68415        1000        242245           15405       6       178292       74
- Helicoptnr houn-                                207000       286000       307000         -          80300U             -        -        &21OC      100
-    -tncticidns                                  252920       280670       288670       44670        874930           87493      10       699944      80
- Aincraft hire                                      -           8400         8400        8400         25200            7560      30        12600       50
- Operating Cantn                                  21800        26505        26505       11513         86326           15623      18        70877      82
Sub-Total 3.0:                                    645690      722550        711440       78783      2M57if63          150560        8     1109707       84
(b) Vnteinrnay Fipld Ser-ia-
- Civil Works                                     442500          -             -          -          442500           62775      14       251625      57
- Vehinl-n and equipmntL and Initial               97072          -           3735         -          101607           23548      23        71374       70
Stock, Vancinen
- Opnnating Conts                                  21366        21366        21366       21366         85464           19064      22        46401       54
Slb-Total 3.b:                                    561738        21366         25101      21366        629571          105387      17       369400       59
(c) Troaing
- Civiil  ar-k                                     27400          -             -          -           27400            4083      15        12020      44
- Vehinlan and eqoipn.nt                           44347         4036          700         -           49083           13844      28        26665       54
- tral pernonnl                                    10610        10610         10610      10610         42440            1938       5          -         -
- Technical annintano.                             23000        23000        23000       23000         92000             -        -         73600      80
- Opnrating Contn                                   7920      _7935           7938        7933         31726            7166      23        13036      41
lob-Total 3.c:                                    113272        45581        42248       41543        242649           27031      il       125321       52
(d)  Proiect Managemt
- Civ-l W-okn                                       4750          -             -          -            4750             712      15         3088       65
- Vnhiclen and equipmnnt                           13500          -             -          -           13500            4655      34         7425       55
- Local penonnal1 1903                                           1993         1993        1993          7972             319       4          -         -
- Technical Anaintornc                             71000        71000        71000       71000        284000             -         -        27200      80
- Openating Conct                                  17600        17838        17838       17838         71114           16864      24        13406       19
Sub-Total 3.d.:                                   108843        90831        90831       90831        381336           22550       8       251119       62
(e>  Pnepanrationof a Follo-Up P-oi-ct                   -            -          30250       35750         66000            4950       8        56100       85
TOTAL 3:                                                   1429548      8dO328        899870      268273      3478019          310478       10    2612647        75
TOTAL BASE COST                                            2073439     1563204       1706686    1052189       6395518          648915       10    3949962        61
Physical Contirgeno.ie                                 178692       117337        137105     110111        543245           75109
Price Contingencien                                     197928      285053        475384     521128       1479493          108494               MM
Sub-Total                                        376620       402390       612489      631239       2022738          183603              1026178
TOTAL PROJECT COST: CFAF '090                              2450059     1965594       2319175    1683428       8418256          832518       10     4975940       58
US$ Mill.on                            11,6        9.3           11.0        8.6         39.9              3.9                 23.6
CFA 210 = U5$1.
March 10, 1980



- 54 -
ANNEX
Table 2
CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(Us$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year                               Cumulative         Undisbursed
and Quarter            Disbursements       Disbursements          Amount
FY 81
First                        -                  -                 16,ooo
Second                     1,550              1,550               14,450
Third                        950              2,500               13,500
Fourth                     1,070              3,570               12,430
FY 82
First                        970              4,540               11,460
Second                     1,130              5,670               10,330
Third                      1,200              6,870                9,130
Fourth                       900              7,770                8,230
FY 83
First                      1,070              8,840                7,160
Second                     1,030              9,870                6,130
Third                      1,030             10,900                5,100
Fourth                     1,030             11,930                4,070
FY 84
First                      1,030             12,960                3,040
Second                     1,030             13,990                2,010
Third                        775             14,765                1,235
Fourth                       645             15,410                   590
FY 85
First                        295             15,705                  295
Second                       295             16,000
March 10, 1980



SECOND LIVESTOCO  DE7ELOPMENT PROJCT                                                           Annex
Table 3
Increnenta  G-rer-ent Cash Flav 1/
ICFAF Million)
PT I    Pf 2       ?Y 3    PY4    PY 5    PY 6    PY 7    PY 8    PY 9    PYl0    pYiI    PY12    PY13    PY14    FY15    PY16    PY17    PY18
INFLIOW
RKG Credit Gr-nt 2/                                 433       477       650      420
IDA Credit                                          WB       840        853      731      124
FGNADER Lten Repayient 3/                              4       16        42       76      309     299       340      327      313      227      166      147       109       72       69       35        33
TA;iES: Cattli Ta. 4/                                  -        1         1         2        2       3        4        4        5         6        6        7                 8         8                          a 0
Taxes an Grade tnd ServIces 5/               244      187       220      163       40       40       40       40       40       20       20        20       20       20       20       20        20       20
Indirect Taxes 6/                             -         7        17       30       40      53       64        64       64       64       64       64        64       64       64       64       64       64
TOTAL INFLOW                                         1,389    1,528     1,783    1,422       515    395       448      433      422       317      276      238      200      164       161      127      125       99
OUTFLOW
FONADER: Lac                                         153      366       674      717      -
Gr-at                                     161      121        112       74      -
80DEPA: Gtat                                       418       343       236      182       90      90        90       90       90       45       45       45        45       45       45       45        45       45
MINEL: Badgetaey Allac-tion                       1,663       986    1,007       302      175    175        175      175      175       88       88        88       88       88       88       88        88       88
Debt Sereine: FRG - Servia- Charge                     2        4         8       12        13      13       13       13       13       13        13       13       13       13       12       12        12       12
- Repyent                                  -                  -         -       -        -        -        -        -       18        18       18       18       18       18        18       18
IDA - Servira Charge                  4       10         17       22       24      24       24       24        24       24       24       24       24        24       23       23       23       23
- Repay,v=et                      -        -         -         -        -       -        -        -        -        -       34       34        34       34       34       34       34       34
TOTAL OUTF007                                     2,401   1,830       2,054   1,309       302     302       302      302      302      170      222      222       222      222      220      220      220       220
NET CASR F1I0  7'                                 (1,012)    (302)     (265)   <1l3       213      93       146      133      120      147       54        16       (23     (58)     (59)     193)     (95)   (121)
CUIULATIVF bALANCE 7'                            (1,012) (1,324)  (1,585) (1,472) (1,259)(1,166) (1,020)  (807)   (767)   (620)                (506)   (550)   (552)   (11)   (669)   (762)   (857)   (97e:
I/ Caste and revana. s Fn1 - n24 ticrlae tantinenet          - lsad itflati-a  fartar.e mned i  Appraeis.1 report; taata ..d reven.e.  PY5 - PY18 -pntr  saed ID ratent  00  terne.
2/  .FU  c....al aId, c an  terne a  IGA great  GTZ arar.
3/ Sa. Aaan- Table 4.
4/ CFAF 200 collected ar 80% af t.cr..eetal cattle pradr-ti-a.
S/ Fl - 24 t.a.e. c as .titated fr-r epprai.al prajeat ac.t; Fi 5 - F2 18 15% of SOGEPA .ad MI8NEL m11-ratin,
6/  Taken ce 6% af  ienesearetal tecrri  mrrrieg ta prrcedares (Annex Table 5) phtaeed i  F02 - F27.
'7/ Ad-,at. ia bra-kete ara negan- ve



ANNEX
CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNDT PROJECT
FONADER TRADITIONAL SECTOR CREDITS
Ilncran,enalai Cash Plan Proiect ion 1 /
(CFAF '500)
pY 1      Py 2      PY 3      PY 4       PY 5      PY 6      PY 7       PY 8      PY 9      PYlO       PYFI      PY12      PY13       PY14      PY15       PY16      FY17       PY18
INFILOW
Gov rn,nene - bo1n 2/                               53,242   366,252   673,615   717,425-
- Grt  3/                               161,031   121,454   111,760    73,874
Credit Repayentttn                                  -          14.966    83.276   213.393   358,358   363,503   440,181   423,412   386,599   294,270   225,386   173,067   129,969 _127,080   112,523    95,086    66.873    31 983
TOTAL INFLOW                                         314,273   502,672   868,651 1,004,695   358,358   363,503   440,181   423,412   386,599   294,270   225,386   173,067   129,969   127,080   112,523    95,086    66,873    31,983
OUTFLOW
Credita - Pig Breeding/Fattening                    42,751    91,096   172,004   183,192             -         -         -          -         -         -               -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Br-iler Production                        16,032    34,162    64,500    68,696
Egge/Coekerîl Production                  16,299    34,445    64,808    69,022       -         -          -         -                              -               -              -          -         -          -         -
Small Hixed FFra,                         12,023    29,891    92,145    98,138
CattIl Breeding/FetteninR Ranch           62,256   164,257   253,398   269,880       -         -          -         -         -          -              -          -              -          -               -         -
8mell Crop Parm                            3.881    12,401    26,760    28.500
8ub-total Credits                                  153,242   366,252   673,615   717,428
Loan Relmbareemeat ta Governmenat                    3,776    16,568    42,177    76,432   309,443   298,748   340,140   326,824   313,455   227,088   186,178   146,871   108,635    72,537    69,329    35,028    33.231            7,017
Technical A.e.ItearI                                77,040    68,703    95,115    80,838       -          -         -         -          -         -         _          _         _                                         _ -
Adminaltratlve operaatig Coata 3/                   80,215    51,149    57,744    68,333      8,775      8,775     8.775     8,775      4,388     4,388     4,388      4.388     4,388      4,338                4.34S   _4,384 43 88  4,388_
TOTAL OUTLFOW                                        314,273   502,672   868,651   943,031   346,411   334,741   379,904   365,375   350,788   252,165   207,528   164,640   122,920    83,534    80,033    42,607    40,647    12,044
NET CASH F3WW                                           -          -         -       61,664    11,947    28,762    60,277    58,037    35,811    42,105    17,858        8,427     7,049    43,546    32,490    52,479    26,226    19,939
LeBs Bad Debt. <27,) 4/                               _          299      1,665     4,268     7,167      7,270     8,804     8,468      7,732     5,885     4,508      3,461     2,599      2,542     2,250      1,902     1,337        640
CASH F1OW AFTER PROVISION FOR BAD DEBTS  5/             -          (299)   (1,665)   57,396     4,780    21,492    51,473    49,569    28,079    36,220    13,350        4,966     4,450    41,004    30,240    50,577    24,889    19,299
CUMUIATIVE NET CASH FLOW                                -          (299)   (1,964)   55,432    60,212    81,704   133,177   182,746   210,825   247,045   260,395   265,361   269,811   310,815   341,055   391,632   416,521   435,820
1/ Coo.t  and Reveaaea far Pn   - Py s aantain coatiageaclea aad are inflated follawaig Tartar. Incladed i  appraai.l report; ceosatant revenee for PY 5 - PY18 are aepraaaed ei PY 5 anneant terte.
2/ Fundt fer on-leading, equal ta theamoaunt Olra  to FONADER ianlading phyaical ceatlageaaiea; at 57. with a 4-yaar grace period.
3/ Fer techaical as..ietae, en.d eperating expeaditare  until lean repaymenetr begi  te rover anas:- FONADER'0 pavmenata te credit superviary perseenel repalid by overnment.
74/ Bad debt pernantage estimated fer live8tock credit aonpaaent ef Firot Livaeaock Prajeot.
5/ Amonta. il brankets nre negative.
Yarch lO, 1980



- 57 -
CAMEROON                                                       Table 5
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECl
SUMMARY OF CONSUMER AMD PRODUCER BENEFITS
--------------------Direct Benefit---------------------                   Indirect Benefit
I. Consumer Benefits                                        Beneeiciaries              Type of Benefit
1. Beef Supply
(a) Adarua                          Consumers in  Adamaoua,             Incremental annuel beef supply
Yaounde, and Douaia                of 540 tons fr-n ran-hing s, snd
(about I million)                 3,1T3 tons fro. troditisna1
Bnctot.    /
(b) Eastern Provi.nc                Consu. ers in Eastern Pro-          Iscrmemntal annuel beef sunPov of
vin.en and YaQuvde                 135 tons fr-  .h.. r      . tani 
(about 600 thousend)
c  North West Provinces             Consu-ers in western               Incremental annuel beef supply of             Incremental annual miilk supply of
onne including Dsuels             1'35 tons front rn-hnsig O          ~          200,000 million litre..
(about 2.8 million)
Coneumers in Northwest             Incremental annual poultry supplv of
Province (about 1 million)         T5 ton r fro. nixed form nattln
fattening.
2. Pork Supply
Western Zone                         Consumers in western aone          Incremental annual pork supply of
including Douala (2.8 million)  768 tons fron pilot credit nohene
producern Se
3. Poultry Supply,
Western Zone                         Consumers in Northwest             Incremental annual poultry supply of          Incremental aenual supply of egge of
Province (about 1 million)         270 tons, broiler prodincers f0              4.5 million
37 tons, sggs and -c,kerol pro-
ducers g/.
Il. Producer Benefits
I. Credit Programs
(a)  Ptg Srendlng/Pottuioe            200 farners                      Availability of new business
yielding annual net incmoe at
fo11 dovelpneot oS CEAS 393,000
(US$1800) I rse owine b...ding;iattante
(b)  Broiler Production               100 farmers                      Availability of new enterprise yielding
annuel set iscone at full development of
ViFAF 1.3 million (UlS$6,077) from sale of
poultry l/
(s)  Eggs and Cockrel Prdodction   100 farmers                         Availability cf oev enterprise yielding
annual net amoue et full develnpmsemt of
CEAI 449,00D (US$2,040) froc naet of
egge and icul.   i;
(d)  Small Mixid Fanm                 500 farmern                      IncremenLin annual net income st full
d.evelupient of CFAF 75,000 (US$340) frou
sasttl  breeding and fettening   h/
(e)  CetLle Breeding/Fattening         PtJe faneers                    -nceemenn Cc met esue  i_c_e  .t an.ul
Ranch                                                           devetopocent off CEAI 2.E milfion (UD$9,500)
fron cnattil  sale
(f)  Small Crop Faem                  800 farmers                      tncrement in annuel net inoome at fu}l    Maintenance of aniMal free zone es prtective barries
developoent of CFAF 18,800 (US$85.00)         againat testse advonce in Adamaoua Platoau.
2. Tsotse F1Y  Éradication              1,100herdsmen  k/                    Increment toglobal net incoone                  - Protection of 9,000 km2 on southern slope of
resulting  frst  ocnupation                      Adasouas Plateau.
ci fly froc sons u.oms traditionaI             - Reduoed pressure onp5ttr5s nadssent to
pastoral system of CFAP 680 per                   onfested sren.
hectare
3. Animal Eealth Serice                  1,100 herdmen                       Improvement le technical coefficients
for herd productivity yielding global
inorenent in net icouse et folO dunel-
opnent of CFAF 1.2 billion (VS$5.4
».                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~million).
a) Incremental sales cf co.a 150 kg; 21 fat steers  at 200 kg per 1,oûoha; 100 private ranchers of 1,000  ha.
b) Incremental sales of 4 cuws at 150 kg; 10 fat steers et 200 kg per 1,000ha; 1,222  of .,WOO ha.
c) Incremnental sses of i cowe et 150 kg; 21 fat steers et 200 kg pet 1000 ha; 25 ranches
d) Sales f l cow or l rteor every yesr et 150 kg, per producer; 500 priodcers
e) Sales of 2 sovs at 140 kg; 1 boer at 140 kg; 43 pigs at 80 kg  per farm ;  200 producecr
f) Sales of 3 ooobroilras at 0.9 kg, per producer; l00 producers
g) Sales of aiD cockerele and hens every 2 years at 0.9 kg, per producer; 100 producers
h) Assuninn  that animal production would only be undertaken by  assisting crop poduscers
i) Assuming that aninal production could be undertaken by a beorover who it  ourosotly  out in agriculture
j) Benefits amd costs are taken for entire progran Sncluding phase completed under firnt project
k) Assuming that 1,222,800 hectares are sccupied, with carrying capacity of I animal unit per 12,8 hectares; 45 animal onits per herd, and 2 herds per herdemsn.
March 10,1980.



CAMEROON
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
MINEL
(Yaoundé)
Minister
Project Coordination Unit
(Yaounde)                                Secretarial General
"nc
7_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
| FONADER       |SODEPA                                                        MINEL
Field Services
Project related credit                Slaughterhouse Operations          - Special Mission
administration and
supervision (Bamenda,               Financial Control                  - Animal Health
Ngaound6ré
Credit                             - Jakiri Training Center
Training                               - Land allocation
Training  -Landallocao  Re-training Center (Faro)
Jakiri Traintng St,tion
Ranch Resource Redeployment
t       -



--  --                                                   N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BR D 14521R
-M7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Z 'A~~~~~~~~~~~ 
L~~~~~
~~~~~~                                                                                               eA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
io ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~z
A~~~~~~~~~(
Il 0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






cX  N I G E k  a) z CJ>o:K      ~    lr          12' s;                                    UN TZD  xr~PUBLIC  OF CAMEfR! ONrI T-               _                 dF iSC
N   >~ .                  t         47 (                                               tAv ' sSecond Livestock Developrment Pro ject
TSETSE FLY ERADICATIOi PROJ±,-CT AREA
tN  N 6 t R 1 A                           '/   '-9  - =-r0qeci perîmeter, March 1978                                       Regular surve I once mnhh 3ro0 n. soroy ays required
,Prnponed idusreen-  to.nrrhern perimeter               ?    For--Berne torguc, f,ed o rg or ground spray
VLf       \    -k   s J            __-~   Tserse Ie t con,tngency zone; 30% poss,bly ,iested                 PossnI e r¾xed w rs bLfftrr zone
{      I c |                           a     P'-  r por, tant G. Morsituns records                                rent cattle entry -ontrU ln ancid/o- tsesee cor;roi pIcS;
r   1 lzsr W j  -ENOrA^L AFrxlcArs   Helicopter s.ray -m,ts.                                     Land above  200 rent.,s
.   ' 1  prrp4Lc           r '     i .       Cod,ple.ed 1977-78                                       9cte Cap a
CAMEROON  k                                 _        Projected  1978-79                                          0   îc,rsor villages
<*- E  raSl   Lx  X  ff '    '   Not sprayed 1976 -77                              -       Major rands
rrOTfieT^LiE 2)   ,<   *t          O ,  _  _ 5rourd spray nsect;cide barrIer Minor sonasI
East, eCotonale                                                 Motoroble tracks
y; ïRR                    Wesi, aill rel;ct free cover                          -.------Railvcay                                                C
7'                                                                                                  ---- R vers
--   lnternational  oundary
^0       !      X
KILOMETERS 0               20              49             60              bu              500
MILES             1 -0         20          30          40           50           6C
N   1  JJ E R  Maya Bgeo0
Mbam v>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R           vt1                                                Xr~~~~~~~~~~~Mbu
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lk 
'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
--Se re JangoI1
>~~<~zs                           em                  LOn$                DooAy
Muer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
12'02                                   /;293.                              )        '3°0ÙT o               'aurrder,/           '30



