CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1010 CM
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES PRODUCTIONS ANIMALES
Dated June 20, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1010 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1980, between INTERNATIONAL DEVE-
LOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION DES PRODUCTIONS
AIMALES (hereinafter called SODEPA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition tha*. SrDEPA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SODEPA;
and
WHEREAS SODEPA, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SODEPA shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, economic, financial, engineering, agricul-
tural and training practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to secure assistance in carrying out
Part B of the Project, SODEPA shall employ the following special-
ists whose qualifications, experience and terms And conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a) a financial controller;
(b) a slaughterhouse manager;
(c) a slaughterhouse engineer; and
(d) a ranch management specialist.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works for Part B of the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SODEPA undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SODEPA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SODEPA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SODEPA shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) SODEPA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto, and to disclose their


﻿-3-
use in said Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in said Part of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated thereto and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning said Part of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) SODEPA shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SODEPA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. (a) SODEPA shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) SODEPA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SODEPA of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SODEPA
Section 3.01. (a) SODEPA shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of its
business and maintain its financial position in accordance with
appropriate economic, financial, commercial, administrative,
agricultural and livestock development practices, and under an
experienced and qualified management assisted by competent staff
in adequate number.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, SODEPA shall operate and maintain its equipment,
machinery and facilities and make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof iv accordance with appropriate agricultural and
management practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. SODEPA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against s-ch risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. SODEPA shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations, including the Part of the Project for which it
is responsible, and to acquire and to retain such land, interests
in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such
licenses, concessions, consents, franchises or other rights, as
may be necessary or useful for the execution and operation of said
Part of the Project and the conduct of its business.
Section 3.04. SODEPA shall employ a technical director and
three ranch managers, all acceptable to the Association and upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. SODEPA shall enter into agreements with live-
stock producing farmers who are settling on its land and obtain
credit under Part A (i) of the Project, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and providing, inter alia, for
twenty year-leases of such grazing land.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SODEPA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SODEPA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of SODEPA and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SODEPA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SODEPA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or.made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request. shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SODEPA:
Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation
des Productions Animales
B.P. 1410
Yaoundf, Cameroon
Cable address:
SODEFA
Yaounde
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SODEPA may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of the Board (Conseil d'Administration) of SODEPA or
such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in
writing, and SODEPA shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Wilfred Thalwitz
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES PRODUCTIONS ANIMA1FS
By Is! Benott Bindzi
Authorized Representative


