CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1010 CM
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDS NATIONAL DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated June 20, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1010 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1980, between INTERNATIONAL DEVE-
LOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and FONDS
NATIONAL DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL (hereinafter called FONADER).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that FONADER agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a financing agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and FONADER, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to FONADER on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS FONADER, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FONADER shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, economic, financial, training, livestock
development and agricultural credit practices.
Section 2.02. In order to secure assistance in carrying out
Part A of the Project, FONADER shall employ the following special-
ists whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a) a pig and poultry specialist; and
(b) a cattle production specialist.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works for Part A of the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, other
than those to be financed out of the proceeds of a sub-loan, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
(b) FONADER shall ensure that goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of a sub-loan shall be procured
in an economical and efficient manner, in accordance with estab-
lished commercial practices.
Section 2.04. (a) FONADER undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, any imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by FONADER to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, FONADER
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) FONADER: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto, and to disclose their
use in said Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and


﻿-3-
sites included in said Part of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning said Part of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) FONADER shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all installations, buildings and property of FONADER
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. FONADER shall duly perform all its obligations
under the FONADER Financing Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, FONADER shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the FONADER Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) FONADER shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the FONADER Financing Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) FONADER shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FONADER of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the FONADER Financing
Agreement.
Section 2.08. In order to carry out its obligations under
this Agreement with respect to the sub-loans to be made under Part
A (i) of the Project, FONADER undertakes that, unless the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, any such sub-loan shall be made on
terms whereby FONADER shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of FONADER, including: (i)   the right to
require the beneficiaries of any sub-loan to carry out and manage
the investment to be financed out of the proceeds thereof with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial
and livestock development or agricultural standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii)  the right to require that the goods


﻿-4-
to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the investment for which FONADER has
provided the sub-loan; (iii) the right of the A,,ociation and of
FONADER to inspect such goods and the sites related to such
investment, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right
to obtain all such information as the Association or FONADER shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the beneficiary of
the sub-loan and the benefits to be derived from such investment;
and (v) the right of FONADER to suspend or terminate the right of
the beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon
failure by such beneficiary to perform its obligations under
its agreement with FONADER.
Section 2.09. Before making any sub-loan under Part A (i)
of the Project to a beneficiary leasing land from SODEPA, FONADER
shall ensure that a boundary survey of such land has been carried
out.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FONADER
Section 3.01. FONADER shall at all times carry on its opera-
tions, manage its affairs, plan the future development of its
business and maintain its financial position in accordance with
appropriate agricultural credit, commercial, economic, financial
and administrative practices, and under an experienced and quali-
fied management assisted by competent staff in adequate number.
Section 3.02. FONADER shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. FONADER shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations, and to acquire and to retain such properties,
and to acquire, maintain and renew such concessions, licenses,
consents, franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the execution and operation of the Part of the Project
for which it is responsible and the conduct of its business.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FONADER shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) FONADER shall, until one year after the Closing Date,
retain all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for Part A of the Project
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
such records.
Section 4.02. FONADER shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each' such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made available
to FONADER and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of FONADER and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of FONADER thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms befor the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
FONADER of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI.
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01o Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the prty giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For FONADER:
Fonds National de
D6veloppement Rural
B. P. 1548
Yaounde, Cameroon
Cable address:                      Telex:
FONADER                            8365 KN
Yaounde
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to-be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of FONADER may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of the Board (Conseil d'Administration) of FONADER or
such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in
writing, and FONADER shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. Th.s Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Wilfred Thalwitz
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
FONDS HATIONAL DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
By Is! Benort Bindzi
Authorized Representative


