CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1010 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1010 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1980, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract: (i) from the Kreditan-
stalt fUr Wiederaufbau, an agency of the Federal Republic of
Germany, a loan (hereinafter called the KfW Loan) in an aggregate
amount of fourteen million Deutsche Mark (DM 14,000,000) to assist
in financing Parts A (i) and C of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the KfW
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau; and (ii) from the Gesellschaft
fUr technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH, Eschborn, Federal Republic
of Germany, technical assistance services to assist in the execu-
tion of Part C of the Project, to be provided on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the GtZ
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Gesellschaft fUr technische Zusammenarbeit;
(C) pursuant to a loan agreement dated May 14, 1974, the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has extended
a loan (No. 983 CM) to the Borrower for the purpose of assisting
in financing a prior livestock development project (hereinafter
called the First Project); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to [evelopment Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MINEL" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible
for livestock and animal industries;
(b) "FONADER" means the Fonds National de Developpement
Rural of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24, dated May 29, 1973, as amended
by the Borrower's Law No. 77/05, dated July 13, 1977, and Decree
No. 73/496, dated August 28, 1973, as such Ordinance, Law and
Decree may be amended from time to time;
(c) "SODEPA" means the Societ6 de D6veloppement et
d'Exploitation des Productions Animales, a development corporation
of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law No.
68/LF/9 of June 11, 1968, Decree No. 68/DF/275 of July 15, 1968
and Decrees No. 74/182 of March 8, 1974 and No. 74/413 (Cahier des
Charges of SODEPA) of April 24, 1974, as such Law and Decrees may
be amended from time to time;
(d) "FONADER Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and FONADER of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time and such term includes all agree-
ments supplemental to the FONADER Project Agreement;
(e) "SODEPA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and SODEPA of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(f) "FONADER Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and FONADER pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to the
FONADER Financing Agreement;


﻿-3-
(g) "Special Mission" means MINEL's Special Mission for the
Eradication of Glossines, established and operating pursuant to
Decree No. 298/CAB/PR of October 28, 1974, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(h) "PCU" means the project coordination unit provided for
under Part E (i) of the Project;
(i) "sub-loan" means a credit made or proposed to be made
by FONADER under Part A (i) of the Project and financed, in part,
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to FONADER under
the FONADER Financing Agreement; and
(j) "IGERA" means the Inspection Generale de l'Etat et de la
R6forme Administrative of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million dollars.($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, other than those to be financed out
of the proceeds of a sub-loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-4-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1990, and ending April 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C, D
and E of the Project through MINEL with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, econo-
mic, financial, agricultural extension and livestock develop-
ment practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose. The Special Mission shall be responsible for the physical
execution of Part C of the Project in accordance with the fore-
going.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause FONADER and SODEPA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the FONADER Project Agreement and the
SODEPA Project Agreement all their respective obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FONADER and SODEPA to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the funds required for Part A of
the Project, including the proceeds of the Credit allocated
thereto, available to FONADER under a financing agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FONADER on terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association (including
inter alia those specified in paragraph (f) of this Section).


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FONADER
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
FONADER Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall make available to SODEPA on a grant
basis the funds required for Part B of the Project, including the
proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto.
(f) The Borrower shall provide the funds to be made avail-
able pursuant to this Section to MINEL (including the Special
Mission), FONADER and SODEPA, respectively, in semi-annual
advances based on the approved Project budgets of said entities so
as to ensure that, at the beginning of each half year, each of
them has available sufficient liquid funds to cover Project
expenditures during such half year (except those expected to be
covered through application to the Association for direct payment
to suppliers or contractors from the Credit Account.)
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist MINEL in carrying out
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or otherwise
secure the services of, the following specialists and consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and whose
services shall be made available to the Special Mission:
(i) an operations controller;
(ii) a veterinarian; and
(iii) a tsetse fly ecologist, an insecticide spraying
consultant and a fixed-wing spraying consultant.
(b) In order to assist MINEL in carrying out Parts D and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ the following spe-
cialists and consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association:
(i) a livestock production/training specialist for
the Jakiri training center included in Part D
(ii) of the Project;


﻿-6-
(ii) a land use planning specialist assigned to the
division of pasture management and pastoral
hydraulics of MINEL at Ngaoundere;
(iii) a Project coordinator and a training specialist
for the PCU; and
(iv) consultants for assisting in the preparation
work under Part E (ii) of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Parts C, D and E of the Project against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts C, D and E of the
Project to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. In respect of Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the proposed work program, including esti-
mates of the cost thereof, of the Special Mission for each fiscal.
year to be furnished to the Association, for review and approval,
not later than three months before the beginning of such fiscal
year.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts C, D and E of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts C, D and E of
the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be derived
from them), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto, and to disclose their
use in said Parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and


﻿-7-
construction sites included in said Parts of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated thereto and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning said Parts of the Project, their cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation, FONADER and SODEPA of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement, the FONADER Project Agreement
and the SODEPA Project Agreement, and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall second to FONADER, for
purposes of Part A of the Project, nine technical agents with
adequate qualifications and experience in the livestock sector.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that FONADER has the opportunity to procure, if neces-
sary by direct importation from abroad, vaccines, drugs and other
veterinary suDplies in the quantities and at the times required
for purposes of Part A (i) of the Project.
Section 3.08. In order to assist SODEPA in carrying out
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare, not later
than June 30, 1980, a detailed program, including a timetable for
its execution, acceptable to the Association for a more economic
and efficient use of the resources of the three SODEPA ranches
included in the First Project.
Section 3.09. (a) In order to carry out Part C (i) of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) cause the Special Mission to prepare a detailed
plan for the prevention of tsetse fly reinfestation


﻿- 8 -
of the area reclaimed under the First Project and
the Project and for the further eradication of
flies and, as soon as possible but not later than
September 30, 1980, to furnish such proposed plan
to the Association for review and approval; and
(ii) make available MINEL veterinary field service staff
and facilities as required for establishing and
operating, in cooperation with the Special Mission,
the four entry control posts to the reclaimed area
of the Adamaoua plateau included in said Part of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Special Mission to prepare
and to furnish to the Association, not later than September 30,
1980, a detailed program of the training to be carried out
under Part C (ii) of the Project, for review and approval by the
Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall undertake the execution of
Part E (ii) of the Project: (a) following an evaluation of the
progress of the other Parts of the Project, to be carried out
jointly by the Borrower and the Association during the first
semester of 1982; and (b) with the assistance of the consultants
referred to in subparagraph (b) (iv) of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement whose terms of reference shall be prepared not later
than June 30, 1982.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts D
and E of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out said Parts of the Project or
any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Special Mission to: (i)
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition; (ii) have its accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿consistently applied, by IGERA or any other independent auditors
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; (iii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its statements of accounts for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by IGERA or said other auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts of the Special Mission
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make available, promptly
as needed, the funds and support services necessary to maintain
the areas cleared from tsetse flies under the Project and the
First Project tsetse free.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) FONADER shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of FONADER under the FONADER Project
Agreement;
(b) SODEPA shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of SODEPA under the SODEPA Project Agree-
ment;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable: (i) that FONADER will be able to perform
its obligations under the FONADER Project Agreement; or (ii) that
SODEPA will be able to perform its obligations under the SODEPA
Project Agreement;
(d) any Law, Ordinance or Decree of the Borrower referred to
in paragraphs (b) or (c), respectively, of Section 1.02 of this
Agreement, or any provision of such Law, Ordinance or Decree,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
FONADER to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set


﻿- 10 -
forth in the FONADER Project Agreement or the ability of SODEPA to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the SODEPA Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FONADER or SODEPA, as the case may be, or for the suspen-
sion of the operations of either of them, without making arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association for the transfer to another
agency or entity of the Borrower of their respective functions
regarding the execution and operation of Parts A and B of the
Project;
(f) a representation made by FONADER in or pursuant to
the FONADER Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in
connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the
Association in making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any
material respect;
(g) a representation made by SODEPA in or pursuant to the
SODEPA Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Association in
making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect; and
(h) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the KfW Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of Parts A (i) and C of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the KfW Loan Agreement;
(B) the technical assistance services to be
provided under the GtZ Agreement shall have
been suspended or terminated prior to the
agreed term thereof; or
(C) any portion of the KfW Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:


﻿- 11 -
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such Agreements; and
(B) adequate funds for Parts A (i) and C of the
Project or technical assistance services for
Part C thereof, as the case may require, are
available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and FONADER or SODEPA, as the case may
require; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (h)
(i) (C) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 16.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Project coordinator referred to in Section 3.02 (b),
subparagraph (iii), of this Agreement has been recruited in
accordance with the provisions of said Section and has assumed his
functions; and
(b) the FONADER Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and FONADER.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 12 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the FONADER Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by FONADER, and is legally binding upon FONADER
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the FONADER Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FONADER, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and FONADER in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that the SODEPA Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by SODEPA, and is legally binding upon SODEPA in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 22, 1980 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 (b) and 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of para-
graph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date eighteen years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
an6 Planning
Yaoundg
United Republic of Cameroon


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINEP                              8268KN or
Yaoundf                            8203KN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Benott Bindzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Wilfred Thalwitz
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under Part          2,300,000        25% of amounts
A (i) of the                                  disbursed
Project
(2) Vehicles, equip-                900,000        80%
ment and
specialists' services
for Part A of the
Project
(3) Civil works under               650,000        60%
Part B of the Project
(4) Vehicles, equipment,          2,350,000        80%
vaccines, medicines
and specialists'
services for Part B
of the Project
(5) Insecticides for Part C       3,900,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                                expenditures
(6) Vehicles, equip-                300,000        50%
ment and fixed-
wing aircraft
rental under Part
C of the Project
(7) Civil works under               100,000        60%
Part C (i) of the
Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(8) Vehicles, equipment             900,000         80%
and specialists'
services for Part
D of the Project
(9) Civil works under              1,500,000        60%
Part D of the Project
(10) Vehicles, equipment           1,650,000        80%
and specialists and
consultants' services,
for Part E of the
Project
(11) Unallocated                   1,450,000
TOTAL              16,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 16 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,300,000, may be
made in respect of Category (5) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1979;
(b) in respect of expenditures for Parts A and C of the
Project, until the KfW Loan Agreement has been duly executed and
all conditions (if any) precedent to initial disbursements under
the KfW Loan Agreement have been met; and
(c) in respect of expenditures for Part C of the Project,
until arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been made
between the Borrower and the Gesellschaft fUr technische Zusammen-
arbeit for the provision of the technical assistance services
referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the second phase of the Borrower's
long-term program to increase and improve meat production in its
territory and to advance the economic well-being of its livestock
producers ("Plan Viande"). It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Livestock and Agricultural Credit Program
(i)  Provision of credit and related technical assist-
ance to about 1,900 livestock producers and farmers
for pig breeding and fattening, broiler production,
egg and cockerel production, cattle production on
small mixed farms; for the establishment of private
cattle breeding and fattening ranches; and for
the further agricultural utilization of the tsetse
fly barrier areas; all to be selected in accordance
with guidelines and criteria agreed upon with the
Association, and on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association.
(ii) In-service training of qualified agents seconded to
FONADER for purposes of Part A (i) of the Project.
Part B:   Strengthening of SODEPA
Strengthening of SODEPA management, financial control systems
and operations (including in-service training of SODEPA staff),
completion of the SODEPA slaughterhouses in Douala and Yaounde
included in the First Project, and a program acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association for achieving a more economic and
efficient use of the resources of the three SODEPA ranches at
Dumbo, Faro and Ndokayo included in the First Project, including
provision of additional equipment, vehicles, vaccines and medi-
cines for such ranches.
Part C:   Tsetse Fly Eradication
(i) Continuation of the tsetse fly eradication campaign
on the Adapaoua plateau initiated under the First
Project thror1.a clearing from fly infestation of a
further area of about 436,000 ha (including about
273,000 ha remaining to be cleared under the First


﻿- 18 -
Project), maintenance of a tsetse barrier and
establishment and initial operation of four posts
for the control of animals entering the freed
zone to prevent fly reinfestation of the reclaimed
area and surveys to provide additional information
on tsetse fly distribution and habitat, including
expansion of Special Mission facilities and con-
struction of access roads and fences.
(ii) In-service training of Special Mission staff for
purposes of Part C (i) of the Project, including
training visits abroad to other tsetse eradication
sites in Africa by senior Special Mission personnel.
Part D:   Extension and Veterinary Field Services
(i) Strengthening of MINEL's extension and veterinary
field services on the Adamaoua plateau through: (A)
refurbishing and initial operation of 5 subsectors
and 20 veterinary zootechnical centers, each of
said centers to provide veterinary and animal
husbandry extension services for about 4,500
cattle, including rehabilitation or construction of
physical facilities and provision of equipment,
veterinary supplies, vaccines and medicines; and
(B) equipping and support of the division of
pasture management and pastoral hydraulics which
shall provide advice on the management of grazing
resources to beneficiaries of the credit program
under Part A of the Project on the Adamaoua pla-
teau.
(ii) Formal training or upgrading of MINEL veterinary
field services staff, including introduction of an
improved training curriculum, a program to provide
practical field experience, and construction or
rehabilitation, equipping, staffing and initial
operation of a MINEL training center to be estab-
lished at the SODEPA ranch at Faro, and of the
existing MINEL training center and the SODEPA
station at Jakiri.
Part E:   Project Coordination
(i) Staffing of the Secretariate General of MINEL with
personnel serving as Project Coordination Unit


﻿- 19 -
(PCU) responsible for coordinating, monitor-
ing and evaluating the execution of the Project,
including provision of related equipment.
(ii) Preparation of a follow-up livestock development
project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods (other than those
to be financed out of a sub-loan) shall be procured under con-
tracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding and in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower, FONADER or SODEPA, as
the case may require, shall prepare and forward to the Association
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower,
FONADER or SODEPA, as the case may require, shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent feasible, contracts for vehicles and equipment
shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk
procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish. the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Cameroon if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower, FONADER or
SODEPA, as the case may be, and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Cameroon equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 22 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works (other than those to be financed out of a sub-
loan) shall be carried out under contracts procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 each may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $30,000 each may be awarded on the basis
of price quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.   Slaugtherhouse equipment may be procured on the basis of
contracts negotiated with the original supplier.
5.   Insecticides for the 1980/81 and 1981/82 spraying campaigns
may be procured on the basis of price quotations from established
suppliers; for the subsequent campaigns, price quotations shall
also be solicited from any new suppliers offering acceptable
products.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, shall be furnished to the Association,
for its comments, and such modifications shall be made in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably


﻿- 23 -
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated and before
a final decision on the award is made, the Association shall be
informed of the name of the bidder to which the award of the
contract is intended to be made, and a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest, shall be furnished to the Association in sufficient time
for its review. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower, FONADER OR SODEPA, as the
case shall require, and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) One original and one copy of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, one original and one copy of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request, shall be furnished to the Association promptly after
the execution of such contract and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower,. FONADER or SODEPA, as the case shall require,
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting a material
extension of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower, FONADER


﻿- 24 -
or SODEPA, as the case may be, shall inform the Association of the
proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and the
reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower, FONADER or SODEPA, as
the case shall require, and state the reasons for its deter-
mination.


